K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  Allianz Insurance Plc has declined a claim  she made under the contents 
section of her home insurance policy. 
background
Miss S Swinton Home Insurance is provided by Allianz. She has premier  care for her 
contents which includes accidental damage. 
On 25 May 2018 Miss S and her partner fell asleep in the living room. Her partner woke  in 
the early hours and decided to blow out the lit candles. One of the candles was in fact a wax 
burner and so as a result of blowing it out, hot wax was blown out of the burner  and onto 
surrounding furniture  and furnishings. The following morning Miss S tried to scrape the wax 
off but this made matters worse. She phoned  her insurer to make a claim for the damage 
caused (this was a couple of days later as initially its computers  were  down). 
Allianz arranged  for the damage  to be inspected.  And both contractors that looked into the 
matter didnt think the damage  was consistent  with the blowing  of hot wax. And so Allianz 
declined the claim. 
Miss S asked us to look into this for her. When  Allianz sent its file, it was clear  there  were  
concerns over whether the claim was genuine  or if events had happened  as described. Our 
investigator considered  the information provided by both sides  and concluded Allianz  hadnt  
declined the claim  unfairly  as he didnt believe the event described  could  account  for the 
extent of the damage claimed for. He cited the fraud  clause in his opinion. 
Miss S has asked for the matter to be reviewed. She remains adamant all the damage was 
caused by the blowing of hot wax. She has explained it becomes very runny, much like 
water, when  it heats  up which explains the extent of the damage. She believes the 
circumstances should be recreated before the claim  is declined. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
I understand Miss S request for the circumstances to be recreated. My role is to consider  
the evidence before me to reach a fair and reasonable decision. It isnt my role to recreate 
the events leading to the complaints  we consider. 
I have reviewed the reports from the contractors who examined the damage. I have  also 
considered all of the pictures taken, which show furniture and furnishings covered  in a dark 
red wax, alongside Miss S testimony about  what happened.  
I fully accept that Miss S partner mistakenly  blew on a hot wax burner believing  it was a 
candle. I also accept  that hot wax is very liquid in nature  as Miss S describes - like water.  
And so I accept that some damage is likely  to have occurred  to the immediate surrounding  
area. 
Ref: DRN41690482But having  considered the pictures taken,  I note the damage is very extensive and appears 
to go in several different directions. I have concerns that it isnt consistent with events as 
described. I have concerns that:
There is wax on the window sill behind a curtain  that also has wax damage. I cant  
see any plausible for explanation for how wax damages items sited  behind others. 
The wax has damaged both the front and back of picture frames with no plausible  
explanation for how it can land on both sides. 
Wax appears to have travelled underneath, on the outer edge and on the top of the 
shelf which sits above the cabinet.  There is no plausible explanation for how the wax 
reached the top of the shelf if the burner was blown at from below  (or vice versa). 
There is a large  patch of wax on the wall behind the cabinet. This is a centralised 
amount of wax, thats in addition to and separate from, the wax on the top of the 
cabinet. This would  indicate that either more than one breath was taken (which isnt 
in the testimony)  or the wax hit the wall by some other method. Im mindful that one 
arc of wax goes in a long thin line towards the bottom corner  of the room against  
what would be the reasonably expected trajectory of wax from the burner, and from a 
greater height.
The damage to the surrounding areas  including the ornaments and the carpet 
extends further than one would  reasonably  expect from wax that had been blown on. 
Im not persuaded the breath required to blow out a candle would cause  wax to travel  the 
distance and the number  of different directions  Miss S says it did here  even it if were a 
heavy or forceful  breath.  Im therefore not surprised that Allianz has concerns  about the 
claim. 
The general conditions  set out, at section 5 that:
If you or your family:
Makes a claim under your policy which is in any part false  or exaggerated;
Supports a claim with a false document or statement;
Makes a claim for any loss or damage as a result of your deliberate act or if 
the loss of damage was caused  with your agreement or knowledge;
Have committed fraud under  any other insurance policy; or
Makes an untrue  statement, fails to provide  us with information we have 
requested, or knowingly provides inaccurate information about  the 
circumstances in order to obtain  cover.
We may:
Declare the policy void from the date the fraudulent  act was committed;
Not pay any claims  which may or may not have been made on your policy;
Recover any previous  claims  paid under  your policy
Not return any premium;  or
Cancel your policy.
We may also inform the police, other  financial services and anti-fraud databases. 
Having considered the evidence available, I find the most likely  explanation for the 
discrepancy between  the event and the damaged caused is that some  items have been 
Ref: DRN41690483damaged by deliberate acts. That is, they werent damaged as a result  of the initial  blow of 
wax from the burner but by other  intervening acts.  And  although I can accept Miss S might 
have had a damaged cabinet and possibly some  other items damaged in the immediate 
vicinity, I find she has tried to claim for items  that werent damaged as a result of the event 
claimed for, Im not persuaded Allianz acted unfairly  in declining her claim in its entirety. 
I appreciate this outcome will come  as a disappointment to Miss S given how strongly  she 
feels about this. She is free not to accept my decision which will leave  any legal rights she 
has intact.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4169048