K820x#14Complaint
Mr B has complained about a loan he took out through Elevate Credit International Limited 
trading as Sunny. He says Sunny lent to him irresponsibly  and didnt undertake affordability 
checks.
Background
Mr B took out a running credit facility (RCF) with Sunny  on 31 January  2014. This had a 
credit limit of £500. 
This RCF worked similarly to that of a credit  card, in that it had a credit limit from which  funds 
could be withdrawn up to the agreed credit limit. Each withdrawal could be repaid over five 
months. There wasnt a limit on how long the facility could run for. So, if Mr B withdrew  the 
full £500 on the day he was given  the facility he was expected to repay this in fortnightly 
instalments of £88.06 over five months.  In total Mr B drew  down a total of £500 in around 
three months. 
Mr B had some problems repaying his RCF and Sunny passed  the outstanding balance  to a 
third party collection agency. 
Sunnys initial  response stated that it hadnt  made  an error by providing  Mr B with his RCF. 
Mr B wasnt  happy with this response  and referred his complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Bs complaint and thought Sunny had treated him fairly 
when it provided  Mr B with the RCF. The adjudicator also reviewed  how the facility was 
used, and didnt  think there was anything in the way Mr B had made use of the RCF to have 
reasonably caused Sunny  to be concerned.
Sunny appears  to have accepted the findings but Mr B didnt agree with the adjudicators  
conclusions. Mr B stated that he had a low income,  owed money to his landlord and had a 
number of existing  payday loans that were still outstanding at the time he applied  for the 
RCF. He also explained that he went  into a debt management plan soon after the final 
drawdown.
As no agreement has been reached the case has now been  passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  in order to reasonably 
conclude Mr B could repay  the loan in a sustainable manner.
Ref: DRN40898382These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But in certain circumstances we might  think a business should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So wed expect Sunny to be able to show 
that it hasnt continued to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. 
At the time Sunny provided Mr B with this RCF it was regulated by the Office of Fair Trading  
(OFT). The OFT had issued  guidance on irresponsible lending for creditors and this 
detailed what should be expected from lenders when granting  these  types of loans.
To be clear, Mr B wasnt given a payday loan he had to repay  all of what he borrowed, plus 
the interest due when  he next got paid. He was given a facility where there was an 
expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a period of five 
months. Therefore,  I think the checks Sunny carried out had to provide enough information 
for it to be able to understand  whether Mr B would likely be able to repay this facility within 
five months if he withdrew his full credit limit.
Before granting the RCF Sunny  asked Mr B about  his monthly income,  and it also completed 
a credit check. Mr B declared a monthly  income  of £790.83. Given  this was the start of the 
lending relationship I dont think it was unreasonable for Sunny  to have relied on the income  
information it was provided with. So, I dont  think at this point it wouldve been proportionate 
of Sunny to have  verified what Mr B was saying about his income.  
Sunny hasnt provided the results of its credit check,  so Ive reviewed a copy of Mr Bs credit  
report that he has provided us with. Based  on what Ive seen, and what I think Sunny  was 
most likely to have become aware  of from its checks at the time,  I think  Sunny could 
reasonably conclude Mr B would  likely  be able to afford the repayments he was committed  
to making. 
Ref: DRN40898383Mr B has stated  that he had a number of payday loans outstanding with other  lenders at the 
time he applied  for the RCF and that he owed his landlord £1,200. I acknowledge this may 
have been the case, but I also think it was reasonable  for Sunny to have had a reasonable 
expectation that Mr B would provide  accurate information about his financial situation,  so 
that it could act appropriately. There isnt anything from what  Ive seen to suggest he made 
Sunny aware  of this information at the time and I dont think  proportionate  checks at this 
point in the lending relationship wouldve extended to Sunny having  to verify Mr Bs financial 
situation. So I dont  think Sunny wouldve reasonably become aware of this information.
Additionally, I cant be sure Sunny wouldve been  aware of any outstanding payday loans or 
rent arrears  Mr B had as a part of its credit check.  I say this as the amount of information 
that can be seen  by Mr B on his credit file is not the same as the information  a business may 
request from a Credit  Reference Agency. The amount and type of information requested can 
vary from business to business depending on its own lending  criteria, and this can also 
change over time. Based on my understanding of Sunnys credit  checks  from around this 
time, I cant fairly say that such information wouldve  reasonably  come  to light. 
Therefore, I dont think Sunny was wrong  to have initially  approved the RCF.
However, there was also an expectation  that Sunny would review  and monitor  how Mr B 
used the facility. Section 2.2 of the General Principles of Fair Business Practice section of 
the OFT guidance  says:  
creditors should monitor  the borrowers  repayment record during the course of the credit 
agreement, offering assistance where  borrowers  appear to be experiencing financial
difficulty. 
From the 1 April 2014, Sunny was under the regulation of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). And the relevant  regulatory rules in place were set out in the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) section of the FCA Handbook of rules  and guidance. So Sunny also 
had to be mindful from this point  of CONC 6.7.2 which  says:
 A firm must monitor a customers repayment  record and take appropriate  action where 
there are signs of actual  or possible repayment  difficulties. 
Therefore, it wasnt enough  for Sunny to just carry out an assessment before the facility  was 
approved, it needed to continue to monitor how Mr B used the facility and then step in and 
provide help when or if it could see Mr B was, or was likely, having  financial difficulties.
While Mr B made eight drawdowns in less than three months, with the last being  on 
14 April 2014 for £50, he never exceeded his agreed credit limit. Additionally,  based  on 
Mr Bs statement  of account, it appears  he was making use of and repaying the facility in line 
with the terms of the RCF. 
I say this because  at the time Mr B made  his last drawdown in April 2014  that was the 
second occasion hed reached  his credit limit. I acknowledge that this was the second  time in 
a relatively short period  of time that Mr B had done so by taking multiple  smaller drawdowns.  
However, Im not satisfied  that this, by itself, was enough to have raised concerns about his 
ability to meet his contractual  repayments.  So I dont think it was wrong for Sunny to have 
provided him with this final £50 or any of the drawdowns that he took before this one.
Ref: DRN40898384I appreciate that, following  his final drawdown  in April 2014, Mr B began to show  signs  of 
financial difficulties when  he missed  his repayments  between April and June 2014. I can see 
a few smaller payments were made in July 2014 and that Sunny has said it was contacted in 
the same  month by StepChange about  Mr Bs financial  circumstances.  Sunny  has explained 
that once it became aware of Mr Bs change of circumstances it froze the interest  on the 
RCF. This is confirmed by the statement of account  as well. Sunny stated that it also agreed  
to accept reduced payments. Both of which I think were reasonable steps for Sunny to have 
taken in the circumstances.
I note reduced payments  were made in August 2014 and then Sunny issued a Default Notice  
in October 2014.  There was one final payment of £1 in January 2015 but nothing following 
this and in July 2015 Sunny sold Mr Bs outstanding  debt to a third party.  I dont think this 
was unreasonable for Sunny to have done  either.  I say this because while Sunny was being  
reasonably positive and sympathetic towards Mr Bs change of circumstances, once Mr B 
stopped making  the agreed  reduced  payments there  was no requirement for Sunny to keep 
ownership of the debt.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.  I appreciate this will be disappointing 
for Mr B. But I hope that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before  21  May 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4089838