K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs M bought the policy in August  1996 at the same time as taking out a credit card. The 
credit card and PPI were  taken out during a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Barclays made Mrs M aware that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ms credit card application  form 
from the time of sale.
On the form, in a separate section  for the PPI, I can see Mrs M had the option  of selecting 
whether or not she wanted the PPI added to her card. Theres  a tick in the box next to the 
statement Yes, I want my Barclaycard Sense account to be covered against  unemployment,  
accident, sickness and death. So, I think Barclays made it clear  to Mrs M that the PPI was 
optional. And I think she agreed  to it.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mrs M, and the policy seems to have been right for 
her based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She was eligible for cover and
I cant see that she would have been  affected  by any of the things  the policy didnt cover  
such as pre-existing medical  conditions.
Mrs M has told us she would have received six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay from her employer  if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us she had some  
savings and could  have relied  on her husband to help with her credit card repayments.
Having thought about what  Mrs M has said about her sick pay and savings, I dont think  this 
means the PPI wasnt right for her. I say this because  the PPI would  have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Mrs M would have received from her employer and would have paid 
out for longer. The PPI also would have  paid a benefit if Mrs M was ever made redundant 
and would have  enabled Mrs M to use her savings for any other  financial commitments  she 
would have had.
Ref: DRN43898822Ive also thought about what  Mrs M has said about the fact that she could have relied on her 
husband to help her with her repayments.  Again, I dont think this meant that the PPI wasnt 
right for her. While Mrs Ms husband  may have wanted to help, his financial situation  could 
change and so this help couldnt always be relied on.
I also havent seen  anything to make me think that the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs M when  
she took out the policy  or that she had a particular  need to keep costs down. So, overall,  I 
think Barclays recommendation was suitable.  And I think Mrs M could have found the cover 
useful if she ever fell on hard times.
In addition to making  sure the policy was suitable for Mrs M, Barclays  also had to give her 
clear enough  information  about  the PPI. I think its possible that Barclays  didnt  give her all 
the information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt  as clear  as it should have 
been, for the reasons  Ive already explained,  I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have stopped Mrs M buying it.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4389882