K820x#14complaint
Mr T feels that Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGIL for short) has treated him 
unfairly in replacing  his mobile phones under his mobile phone insurance  policy.
background
Mr T first claimed on his phone insurance  in June  2017. From this point followed a long 
series of events which included either Mr T returning phones, AGIL  sending  him replacement 
phones and both parties either talking to each  other  or trying and failing to talk to the other.
In April 2018 Mr T complained to AGIL and made  it aware of his mental  health  issues and 
the enhanced need he has for a phone in order to talk to his mental health support  team.  He 
described having suicidal episodes, the embarrassment of the police attending because 
theyd been called due to people not being  able to get in contact with him and also that he 
felt hed lost out on a job offer due to not being  contactable. In November 2018 Mr T 
confirmed that the phone had been collected and AGIL then paid the agreed cash settlement 
for it.
AGIL looked  into matters  and offered him £200 for the distress and inconvenience  hed 
suffered in relation to what had happened. Mr T thinks this and the cash  settlement arent 
enough. So he complained here.
The investigator thought AGIL had treated him fairly  and reasonably and consequently didnt 
uphold Mr Ts complaint as they thought the offer and cash settlement were  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. As Mr T remains unhappy his complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of their complaint.
Firstly I should state  that Im very sorry to hear of Mr Ts mental health issues and the 
bereavement in the family  he suffered. I can appreciate this will have been very difficult  for 
Mr T.
Mr T has said that he disagreed with the adjudicators position due to the nature of the job 
opportunity that I lost as well as the affect that the treatment (AGIL)  having such a negative 
Impact on my mental health and leaving  me 'at risk'. These are the important  areas 
concerning Mr T and as such Ill deal with these issues  first.
Mr T clearly believes he lost his job opportunity due to the failings of AGIL which he says 
meant his potential employers couldnt  get hold of him. However Im not persuaded that I can 
hold AGIL responsible for this. He had a phone that worked during the time in question  that 
AGIL had sent him. His decision  not to use it doesnt  sit with AGIL.  
AGIL has also pointed out that the potential employer contacted him via email during that 
time. And having  considered the evidence I can see he was sending emails  during the time 
in question. So I think he had access to email  other  than through  his phone. I can also see 
the investigator asked  Mr T for evidence from the potential employer as to why the offer of 
employment was withdrawn.  But Mr T hasnt provided this. So although Im concerned to 
Ref: DRN43841972hear about Mr Ts clear  health problems I can only hold AGIL  responsible for the things it 
does wrong. And considering the above Im not persuaded that Mr T lost the opportunity  of 
possibly having  a job due to AGILs actions.
As Ive noted Im concerned to hear about  Mr Ts important health issues  and I appreciate  
that Mr T has argued that what AGIL has done  has had a negative  impact on his mental 
health and left him at risk. Clearly these  are important issues.  But Im not persuaded that 
AGIL should  do anything  more in relation to this. Its clear that Mr T didnt inform AGIL about 
these issues until quite  late in all that had happened. So it wouldnt be fair to expect it to do 
more in the service  it provided to Mr T during the time that it wasnt  aware of this important  
issue.
Added to this I can see that during the many months that Mr T was complaining about his 
phone AGIL only had possession  of his phone for ten days. On one occasion when Mr T 
reported a faulty phone it took some months  for Mr T to actually return it to AGIL. 
Furthermore Mr T returned a phone  that when AGIL received  and inspected  it they found  it 
worked properly and couldnt find any operational fault with it. In April 2018  AGIL  gave Mr T 
options as to what to do (exchange phone or cash settlement) but Mr T didnt take any of the 
options available until September.  I can see from the evidence  that AGIL  repeatedly tried to 
speak to Mr T during  this time about  this issue.
Furthermore having considered the matter  in the round I can only see three areas where 
AGIL hasnt  done  what it should. It made a factual error in its email to Mr T about when a 
new phone  was to be sent out to Mr T but it did apologise the following day and updated  him 
regarding timescales.  AGIL  also sent a phone  to his registered address without checking if 
thats where he actually  wanted it sent so he missed the delivery. It did (essentially) the 
same mistake the following day. But these areas  are the only areas where  AGIL hasnt 
provided the service  I think it should have. And Im not persuaded that these issues  have 
had a greater  impact on Mr T than the amount offered already recompenses  Mr T for.
Mr T has said that he couldnt use the phone when it was returned to him because it arrived  
damaged  and in a poor cosmetic condition. However the phone had been checked  and 
confirmed as fault free and functional immediately before dispatch and sent in protective 
packing. And Mr T has not said it didnt work but that he chose not to use it and chose  not to 
return it for some time. So I dont think AGIL should be responsible for this.
Mr T has said that because of AGILs actions people couldnt contact him and because they 
were worried  they called the police who then attended his house which  he found distressing. 
But for similar reasons as above I think Mr T did have  access  to communication methods 
during the time in question. So I dont think AGIL should be responsible for this especially 
considering it wasnt  AGIL that called the police.
So all in all I think the position  AGIL  has taken  is fair and reasonable in these particular 
circumstances. I am very mindful of the very difficult  time that Mr T has had and that hes 
been particularly  unwell  and in need  of a specialist support team. However I do not think 
AGIL has done anything  which the offer and settlement  it has already made do not fully 
resolve. As a consequence I wont be asking it to do any more. I appreciate this isnt the 
decision that Mr T wants to hear but I consider it fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN43841973For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Assurant General 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4384197