K820x#14complaint
Mrs T has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC irresponsibly offered her two 
increases to the credit limit on her Tesco credit card. 
background
Mrs T had held her credit card since March 2003.  Her credit limit was initially £1,450.  In 
March 2015 Tesco wrote to Mrs T saying  her credit limit would increase to £6,450 unless 
she said she didnt want that. Mrs T didnt object. In February 2017 Tesco wrote to Mrs T 
again, saying  her credit limit would increase to £8,450 unless she said she didnt want it. 
Mrs T didnt  object.
Via her representative Mrs T has said the two increases were unaffordable  and that it was 
irresponsible of Tesco to offer them to her. As redress  she would like Tesco to refund all 
interest and late payment  charges after it increased her limit in March 2015 and pay 8% 
simple interest from the day the increase was provided. Mrs T would also like Tesco  to 
remove all late payment  or default  markers from her credit  report.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. While Tesco hadnt retained the detail of the 
assessments it had carried out before  offering the credit limit increases, it forwarded  to the 
ombudsman service the data on which it based  its assessments. The adjudicator concluded 
Tesco hadnt  acted  irresponsibly by offering the increases to Mrs T.
Mrs T didnt  accept the adjudicators conclusions. By reference to what she saw as the 
totality of the relevant evidence, she argued Tesco ought to have concluded the increases 
werent affordable.  That evidence,  which  Mrs T said was available before the increases were  
offered, included:
her bank statements  (ie how she was conducting  her current account)
the level of her overall debt
how much of her available credit she was using
how little of her debt she was repaying
her use of further debt to pay down existing debt
how she sometimes exceeded  her credit limit
Mrs T said that a proper assessment of the evidence  should have led Tesco to conclude  that 
her debt was unaffordable even before the increases were offered. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mrs T but I too 
have decided not to uphold her complaint.
The question Ive addressed  which I think is the right approach  is whether Tesco acted 
reasonably when assessing if it could  responsibly offer Mrs T the increases to her credit  
limit, and then when it offered the increases. 
The question isnt, for example, whether I or any other third party, including Mrs Ts 
representative, would have reached the same or a different  decision,  or whether it would 
Ref: DRN44324262have been a defensible position, as one option among others, for Tesco not to offer the 
increases. 
The ombudsman service  isnt the regulator  of financial businesses,  and its not for us to 
prescribe or forbid any particular method  of making  assessments.  We dont, for example,  
expect lenders in this situation to routinely examine how the customer conducts  their current 
account. 
While the actual assessments Tesco made are no longer available, Tesco has provided the 
(commercially sensitive) data on which it based its assessments. These have been 
described by our adjudicator and include information supplied by credit reference agencies  
in respect of Mrs T, in particular the consumer indebtedness index and the unsecured  
affordability indicator.  As their names  indicate, these are tools  used  by some lenders to 
assess a customers overall level of indebtedness  and how affordable  further unsecured 
lending may be for the customer. 
Like the adjudicator,  Ive reviewed how Tesco says it would  have reached  its conclusions 
about Mrs Ts overall level of indebtedness  and the affordability of further lending before it 
offered the credit  limit increases, and Im satisfied Tesco acted reasonably in these respects. 
Its also important to note that Tesco could find no indication from the data it consulted,  nor 
had it been told by Mrs T herself, that Mrs T was in any financial difficulties or was struggling 
to make her debt repayments. 
I also note, like the adjudicator, that while its not a complete answer to complaints of this 
kind, Tesco  gave Mrs T the option  of refusing  the increases if she wished. 
my final decision
Ive found Tesco Personal Finance PLC acted  reasonably when assessing  if two increases 
to Mrs Ts credit  limit on her credit  card account  would  be affordable, and in then offering the 
increases. So I havent  upheld Mrs Ts complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4432426