K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that a generator that she financed using a fixed  sum loan agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers  Retail Finance, wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
background
Ms H bought a generator  from a supplier in August 2018 and she used  a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Close Brothers to pay for it. She returned the generator to the supplier within 
14 days because she said that it was faulty.  She stopped her payments under the 
agreement and said that shed cancelled it. The supplier examined  the generator, topped-up 
the oil and tested  it  and it said that it was working exactly to the manufacturers 
specification so it was returned to the store for collection by Ms H. Ms H complained to Close 
Brothers but wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained  to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He thought  that the 
generator was of satisfactory quality  and that there hadnt been  a breach of contract. Close 
Brothers had offered  to remove the late fees and he didnt think  that it had done anything  
wrong in defaulting the account.
Ms H has asked for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that: she hasnt  made any payments to Close  Brothers because  the agreement  
was stopped before any collection could be taken; the supplier said that shed need to pay 
£20 for the generator  to be sent to the manufacturer; as a customer  she has the right to 
return an item thats faulty;  and shed removed oil from the generator  before returning it as 
she was told that, if she needed  to bring  the generator  back for any reason, shed have to 
make sure that there  was no oil or fuel in it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H signed  the fixed sum loan agreement and she paid a deposit  of £101.28 and agreed to 
make one payment  of £81.08 and eleven  payments of £81.07 to pay for the generator. Close  
Brothers then paid the amount of the loan to the supplier.  Ms H hasnt made any payments 
under the loan agreement  (other than the deposit).
Ms H had the right to withdraw from the loan agreement within  14 days as set out in the 
terms and conditions  but to do so she needed to give notice in the required form to Close 
Brothers and to repay the amount of the loan to it. She hasnt done  so. And the suppliers 
terms and conditions say that unwanted goods  can be returned  within  14 days but they must 
be unused but that faulty goods  can be returned.  
Ms H had used the generator and returned it to the supplier because she says that it was 
emitting smoke and cutting-out. It was examined and was found to be working exactly to the 
manufacturers specification. The supplier has offered to have the generator inspected again  
but says that if no fault was found  Ms H would need  to pay for that inspection   and shes  
not agreed to do so.
Ref: DRN47677672Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the generator  is faulty. And I 
consider it to be more  likely than not that the generator was of satisfactory  quality when it 
was sold to Ms H  as it was required to be. So Im not persuaded that Ms H had any right to 
return the generator  and cancel the agreement.  
The supplier  says that the generator remains available  for collection by Ms H from the store.  
Close Brothers says that it sent arrears letters to Ms H, defaulted her account in December 
2018 and then terminated the agreement in January 2019. It says that a debt collection  
agency is now trying to collect the debt but that as a gesture of goodwill it removed the late 
fees that its applied to her agreement. But it says that its not in a position  to take the debt 
back from debt collection or to remove the late payment markers from her credit  file.
Im not persuaded that Close Brothers  has acted incorrectly in its dealings with Ms H. So I 
find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require it to write-
off the outstanding balance of her account   or to take any other  action in response to her 
complaint. If shes unable to repay that amount to Close Brothers  I suggest  that she contacts 
it to try to agree a suitable repayment  arrangement. And if shes suffering from any financial 
difficulties, its required to respond to those difficulties promptly  and sympathetically. I also 
suggest that Ms H collects  the generator from the store.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4767767