K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr B says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold him 
the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr B has said PPI was not discussed.  Barclays had to make  Mr B aware that the PPI was 
optional and gain his consent before adding it to his card. I cant  be certain  what  was said 
when the policy was sold, but Barclays has provided a copy of the application form that was 
completed at the time. The form had a section  on it for PPI where the option to take the 
policy was selected  before  the form was signed  by Mr B. I think  its likely PPI was selected 
during a conversation Mr B had with a Barclays representative. So overall I think  Barclays 
made it clear  that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out. 
Mr B has confirmed  that it is his signature  on the application. But he has said he did not fill 
out the form and that it is not his handwriting.  As the sale took place in branch, I think its a 
possibility a Barclays representative could have completed the form for Mr B while asking 
him for the relevant information. But Mr B was also agreeing to an important financial 
commitment, so I would  have expected  him to have looked over the form before signing in 
agreement with the information on it.
I also think its likely that PPI would  have appeared on Mr Bs monthly credit card statements 
and I think Mr B would  have questioned why he was paying  for PPI with Barclays  if it was 
something that had never been discussed. But it seems Mr B continued to pay PPI for some 
years after taking the policy out.
Mr B has said no advice  was provided at the time of sale. Barclays  has said it did provide 
advice and recommended  the PPI to Mr B. Ive thought about this carefully. And from what I 
know about how Barclays sold PPI in branch at this time, I think its more likely Barclays  
recommended the PPI to Mr B. And as it puts more responsibility on Barclays for how it sold 
the cover, Ive looked at this complaint  as though  Barclays advised  Mr B. So it had to check  
that the PPI was right for him  and based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. Mr B wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr B has said he would have received six months full sick pay from his employer if he was 
too ill to work as well as having some shares  he could sell. But the PPI policy  would cover  
10% of the outstanding balance of his account  for up to 12 months if he was too sick to work 
or he lost his job. And this would be in addition  to, and potentially  for longer than, any other  
pay he would receive. It would also mean he wouldnt have had to sell his shares. So I still 
think the PPI would have been  useful.
Ref: DRN44932662Whilst I appreciate that Mr B could have asked his friends and family for help and they would 
have wanted to help, their support  cant be relied  upon as their circumstances  can also 
change, meaning  they are unable to provide  such financial  assistance.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said but these points dont change my decision.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Barclays has given me information  that shows Mr Bs credit  card was taken out in 2001  and 
ended in 2006. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship  
provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court  judgment,  or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply here.
So Barclays  doesnt  need to refund any of the commission Mr B paid for the PPI he had with 
his credit card.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.  
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4493266