K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2000. Mr J says Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
background
I sent Mr J and Capital  One a provisional  decision on 15 August 2019 to explain why I didnt 
feel the PPI had been mis-sold and felt the commission  and profit share Capital  One had 
paid back was fair. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
When selling the PPI, Capital One had to make it clear to Mr J that he had a choice about it. 
But Mr J says the PPI was added without his knowledge.
Capital One has sent us a copy of Mr Js application form for the credit card. This included a 
question on PPI, with yes  and no boxes to be ticked to show whether Mr J wanted to take 
it out. And the yes box has been  ticked.
Based on this, I think Capital One did make it clear to Mr J that he had a choice about the 
PPI. And that Mr J chose  to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr J, so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure he got the information he needed to decide if the PPI was 
right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like Mr J was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  The policy 
couldve paid out for longer than Mr J told us he wouldve been entitled to sick pay. And it 
wouldve meant he didnt  need to rely on any savings he had to make his repayments  if he 
wasnt earning. So the PPI would have  been  useful for him if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
Mr J off taking  it out.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr J, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I said Id consider anything further Mr J and Capital One sent in.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN42834842Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Neither Mr J nor Capital One had anything further  to add following my provisional  decision. 
So I still think the conclusions I set out are correct, for the same reasons.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) Plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does  have to pay back to Mr J any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4283484