K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained that Close Brothers  Limited mis-sold a guaranteed asset protection 
(GAP) insurance policy.
background
Mr W bought a car on finance. Close Brothers  phoned him and sold him a return  to invoice 
GAP policy. It told him that if his car was stolen or deemed a total loss the GAP policy would 
pay the difference between the amount Mr Ws motor  insurer paid him for the market value 
of the car and the amount he bought the car for, which was £27,699.
Mr Ws car was stolen  and not recovered.  His GAP insurer paid his GAP claim, but it didn't 
pay the full amount. It said it had readjusted the purchase price figure to £24,672. Thats  
because the policys  terms  and conditions say that the most the policy  will pay is 120% of 
the cars  market value  at the time that Mr W bought it (the limit).
Mr W didn't think  that was fair and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that 
Close Brothers hadn't told Mr W about  the limit so she said it should pay the difference 
between the GAP insurers settlement and the amount Mr W paid for his car, which  is 
£3,027. She said it should add simple interest to that sum. She also said that it should pay 
Mr W £250 compensation to address his distress  and inconvenience.
Close Brothers didn't  agree so the complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Ive listened to the call when Close Brothers sold the GAP  policy, and it twice told Mr W that 
the GAP insurers  pay-out  would be based  on the amount he actually paid for his car. And it 
twice quoted the sum of £27,699. Also, towards  the end of the call, Mr W asked for 
clarification of the policys benefits and Close Brothers told him hed get back  what  he paid 
for the car. It didn't  at any point mention that the pay-out might be limited.  And I think Mr W 
should have been able to rely on the information  that Close Brothers  gave him during  that 
call. But Close Brothers advice wasn't accurate.
Close Brothers have said that Mr W agreed to receive an overview of the policys  terms 
during the phone call. It added that the limit was explained in the policys documents. But 
Close Brothers sold the policy on whats known as an advised basis.  That means it had a 
duty to ensure that its advice was suitable  and that Mr W could rely on its judgment.  So 
Mr W should have been able to rely on what Close Brothers told him on the phone. So I think 
the policy was mis-sold.
Further theres a dispute  over the actual policy wording that the insurer  sent to Mr W. 
Close Brothers have sent us two different version  of the policy. One contains information 
about the limit but an older version  doesnt. Mr W doesn't recall  any reference  to the limit. So 
its possible he was sent the wrong version of the policy.  Close Brother said that the insurer 
would have sent Mr W the updated  version which shows the limit. But even if I accept thats 
the case, I still think the policy  was mis-sold.  The letter Close  Brothers sent Mr W confirming 
it had set up the policy again  said a settled claim would pay Mr W the original purchase  price 
Ref: DRN46335592of the car. Thats repeated in the policys key facts statement. But it doesnt  highlight the limit 
as a significant term Mr W should  be aware  of. So I don't think the policy  documents do 
enough to bring  the limit to Mr Ws attention, even if he did receive  the up-to-date copy  of the 
policy.
I think Close Brothers gave Mr W the clear impression that he could expect the policy  to pay 
out on the basis of the actual amount that he paid for his car. But that didn't happen. So I 
think the fair thing for Close Brothers  to do is to pay Mr W the £3,027 shortfall from the GAP 
insurers settlement. It should add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the 
date of Mr Ws claim to the date it makes payment. Im also aware that the claim has been a 
source of distress and inconvenience for Mr W at a time thats been difficult for him 
financially. So I think it should  pay him £250  compensation  to address that.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Close  Brothers Limited to:
Pay Mr W £3,027 being  the shortfall in his GAP  claim settlement. It should  add 
simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date of Mr Ws claim to the 
date it makes payment1.
Pay Mr W £250 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience.
It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr W has accepted my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Close Brothers considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr W how much  its taken  off. It should  also give him a certificate showing 
this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN4633559