K821x#15Complaint
Mr G says Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do enough to help him when  he was the victim of a scam.
Background
In August  2017,  Mr G received an email  from his daughter asking to borrow money. He says 
theyd previously discussed her borrowing money from him and hed agreed. He transferred 
money using the account details provided  in that email. He made  the following three 
payments:
11 August - £5,000
22 August - £3,250
24 August - £4,000
Shortly before making the second  payment, Mr G emailed his daughter to tell her he thought 
her computer or email  account had been infected  by a computer virus. This was apparently  
prompted by him receiving a strange invoice by email. Nonetheless, he continued to 
correspond with the scammer  in the belief  that it was his daughter.
Weve asked Mr G if he still has a copy of the email  containing the invoice. Unfortunately,  he 
hes not been able to find it. He also hasnt been  able to provide any of the legitimate emails  
from his daughter in which they discussed her borrowing money. Its not clear if this idea was 
initially discussed by email or some other way. Mr G has also not been  able to provide a 
copy of the initial email from the scammer  which prompted him to make the first payment. 
The emails  were sent from a work email account which he no longer has access to, although 
he has kept a physical record of most of the email exchange he had with the scammer.
After making the third payment,  it came to light that Mr G hadnt been communicating  with 
his daughter at all. He said that there was something unusual about the tone of the later 
emails that made him question whether the earlier ones  had been legitimate. When he 
looked more closely,  he recognised that the email  header redirected  any of his replies to a 
slightly different email address to his daughters. The difference was so minor, it would likely  
have escaped the attention of anyone who wasnt deliberately looking for irregularities.
He spoke to his daughter over the phone and, after doing so, it became clear  that he was the 
victim of a scam. He promptly notified Lloyds about what had happened. Lloyds initially  
misinterpreted what Mr G had told them. It had assumed Mr G was complaining that a 
payment hed sent hadnt been received.  As a result,  it didnt initially  treat what Mr G had 
said as a notification  of fraud. Lloyds did later contact the receiving bank to request the 
return of the funds. Unfortunately, the vast majority  had been removed from the scammers 
account. Lloyds  recovered what it could - £409.
Mr G complained to Lloyds who didnt uphold his complaint. He was unhappy  with this, so he 
referred the complaint to this service.
It was looked  at by an investigator who upheld it in part. The investigator  concluded that 
Lloyds ought to have recognised that the way Mr G was using his account was out of 
character. Although she thought it was reasonable for it to have not treated the first payment 
of £5,000 as suspicious  she thought that, as soon as Mr G tried to transfer  the second 
payment, it shouldve recognised that there was an enhanced risk that hed been targeted by 
a fraudster.
Ref: DRN46367882Lloyds disagreed with the investigators opinion. It said that the code of practice the 
investigator applied  (the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting customers  
from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial  abuse  Code of practice) wasnt in force 
at the time these  payments  were made  and so she was wrong to consider  it in relation to this 
complaint.
Lloyds also thought Mr G shouldve been  more  suspicious  of the fact that his daughter  had 
provided him with new account details. He had made online transfers to his daughter for 
much smaller amounts  and Lloyds  thinks that he shouldve questioned whether something 
was amiss  when he was asked to make these payments to a new payee. 
As Lloyds  disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
consider relevant: law and regulations;  regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).
Regulated firms like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken
proactive steps  to identify and help prevent transactions   particularly unusual  or out of 
character transactions   that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. This was 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting customers  from 
financial harm as a result of fraud or financial  abuse  Code of practice , which a number of 
banks and trade associations were  involved  in the development of. Although  it was not in 
force at the time Mr G made these payments, I consider it simply codified good  industry  
practice and so I think its contents  are applicable to this case.  
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a
Ref: DRN46367883bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
This is particularly so considering the environment  created by the increase  in sophisticated
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more  familiar with than the
average customer.
Did Lloyds act fairly and reasonably  in this case?
In this case I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Mr G when she transferred £12,250 to scammers over three transactions.  
Although Lloyds has pointed out that the BSI Code of Practice  referred  to above wasnt 
published until slightly after this scam, I consider it to have been  largely  a codification of 
what was already good industry practice.  And good  industry practice required that Lloyds to 
be on the lookout for unusual or out of character transactions.
Ive considered the circumstances  carefully  and I agree with the investigator  that the second 
and third payments  were  unusual and out of character and Lloyds shouldve looked at them  
more closely. I say that because, having reviewed bank  statements for the account for the 
15 months before the scam, I can see that large  payments out of the account were rare. 
There were only five payments of more than £1,000 and only one of these was  an online 
transfer via faster payments.  There was one very large transaction  (in excess of £130,000) 
but Mr G arranged this in branch. In addition, the payments were made to a new payee  and 
there were three payments made in quick succession.
I dont think Lloyds needed to treat the first payment as out of character. It was for £5,000 
and so wasnt so large  that it should automatically have attracted suspicion, Mr G had made 
very occasional payments  of a similar  size and account still had a healthy balance  after the 
transfer. But at the time of the second transfer,  Lloyds  ought to have recognised Mr G was at 
enhanced risk of financial  harm because  he hadnt made multiple  payments of that size 
within a timeframe like this one.
At that point, Lloyds  ought to have  contacted  him to question the payment.  Im satisfied Mr G 
wouldve told Lloyds he was sending money  to his daughter, and in response to this Lloyds 
couldve asked him why he was making the transfers to a new account, rather  than the one 
hed made  transfers  to before. It could also have asked him whether hed received the 
payment request and new account details  by email. In the light of his likely responses to 
these questions, it ought to have warned Mr G about how email  interception  scams  work and 
urged him to call his daughter to check that the emails were  legitimate. If it had done so, I 
think its more likely  than not that Mr G wouldnt have gone ahead  with the payments.
Its significant that, as soon as Mr G did have his suspicions, he was able to quickly  find 
anomalies on the emails  that hed been  sent by the scammer  for example, that the replies 
were being  redirected to a different email address. Overall, I dont think it wouldve taken 
much to break the spell that Mr G was under and so Im satisfied  that, had Lloyds taken the 
steps I think it ought fairly and reasonably to have taken, the second and third payments 
Mr G made  to the scammer  wouldve been prevented and Mr G would not have experienced 
those losses.
Ref: DRN46367884Ive also thought about whether Mr G is in any way blameworthy here.  Its true that, if hed 
looked very closely, he might have  noticed that the email address he was replying to was 
very slightly different  from his daughters. I can also see from the email exchange with the 
scammer that he suspected his daughters email account might have been infected with a 
computer virus based on something unusual he was sent by her. 
Its clear that Mr G thought there was something  strange about an email  he received from his 
daughters account.  At the time, he concluded that this was likely caused by a computer 
virus. There is a widespread awareness of the risks posed by computer viruses  and most 
people know  to safeguard against them.
But I dont think Mr G couldve known that a fraudster had managed to gain access  to his 
daughters email account and therefore  impersonate her communicating with him. I therefore 
dont find that he was careless  for having continued to communicate  with the scammer, even 
after receiving this email. All things  considered,  I am satisfied he was simply the unwitting  
and blameless victim of a cynical fraudster  who managed to convince him he was genuinely  
communicating with his daughter.  
For the same reason,  Im not persuaded that Mr G ought to have  considered it unusual  that 
he was asked to make the payments  to a different account. He believed he was 
communicating with his daughter and wouldve had no real basis  for questioning why shed 
asked the money  to be paid into a specific account. Its not uncommon  for someone to hold 
multiple accounts and so I dont think it couldve been seen as unusual  to be asked to make 
a personal transfer  of this kind into a new one. 
Non-financial loss
When Mr G initially  contacted Lloyds  to report that hed been the victim of fraud, it 
misinterpreted his query. It thought that he was complaining that a payment hadnt  been 
received by the recipient,  rather than that hed been  tricked into making the payment.
As a result, Lloyds passed  his query  to the wrong team. Ive not seen anything to suggest  
this prevented Lloyds  from being able to recover his money from the receiving bank   but I 
think this possibility was a source of distress for Mr G. Lloyds has offered £400 in recognition  
of this and I think thats a fair sum in the circumstances.
Final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC need to:
Refund the payments of £3,250 and £4,000 to Mr G less the £409 it was able to 
recover from the receiving bank
Add 8% simple interest on each payment from the date it was made  until the date the 
settlement is paid.
Pay Mr G £400 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it caused to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 February  2021.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN46367885
Ref: DRN4636788