K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Tesco Personal Finance  PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2002.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ls credit  card account when he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain  why.
 Ive seen a copy  of the credit card application  which Mr L signed. It includes  a box to 
tick if the applicant  wishes to take out PPI. It said Tesco strongly recommended that 
the applicant take out the cover.  Theres a tick in the box to indicate that Mr L wished 
to take the cover. I think it was clear from the way the form was set out that the PPI 
was optional. And I think Mr L decided to take it, knowing  that he had a choice  
although I can understand why he may no longer remember  this, so many  years later.
 Mr L applied for the credit card and PPI by post. So I think  its unlikely that he had any 
direct contact  with Tescos staff about  the application, or that Tesco recommend  the 
PPI to Mr L personally. This means that Tesco didnt have to check  if it was suitable for 
him. But it did have  a responsibility to give Mr L enough  information  to decide whether 
the policy was right for him, knowing what other  means  hed have had of making his 
monthly credit card payments if hed been  off sick, or if hed lost his job.
 Its possible the information Tesco gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  
have been. But Mr L chose to take out the policy. So he appears to have wanted this 
type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten that now, so many years later. He 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  or limitations and the policy was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable.  And as Mr L was paying for it monthly,  he could have 
cancelled it without any further cost if his situation changed.
 Ive borne in mind  that Mr Ls told us hed have been entitled to some  sick pay from his 
employer at the time. But if hed made  a successful claim on the policy  for accident,  
sickness or unemployment, it would have paid his monthly credit  card payments for up 
to 12 months per successful claim. Whats more,  it would  have paid out in addition to 
any payments Mr L received from his employer, allowing him to use those to meet 
other day-to-day expenses. And he wouldnt have had to use any savings he may have  
had to make his credit  card repayments. So I think it unlikely Mr L would have made  a 
different decision if better  information had been provided. On balance I think  hed still 
have taken out the policy.
Ref: DRN46151022This means  that Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L. But it has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because:
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about  that. Because  Tesco didnt tell Mr L, that 
was unfair.
To put that right,  Tesco has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC doesnt have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mr L any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4615102