K822xcomplaint
Miss A and Mr H complain about  the poor communications and handling of the repairs to 
their car by Admiral Insurance  Company  Limited  following their accident claim under       
Miss As motor insurance policy. Mr H is a named driver on the policy.  
background 
Miss A and Mr H spoke to Admiral  on 25 January 2018 and explained how their accident had 
happened. Admiral said Mr H confirmed he wanted  to claim, and the agent explained the 
excess and said their car should  go to its approved repairer. Mr H said he thought  Admiral  
was only getting  a quote for the repairs and he told Admiral and the repairer to hold off until 
they decided whether  it was feasible to claim for the repairs under their insurance policy.    
Mr H said Admirals repairer went ahead and repaired the car without their permission. 
Miss A and Mr H said the repairs  took a week longer than scheduled and were of poor 
quality. They said there was a noise from the rear suspension, no report  about wheel 
alignment and fuel was stolen by the repairer.  They  said they were treated like liars about 
these problems. They said they took their car to another garage which  identified  a bent 
driveshaft which  had been missed  by Admirals repairer and its independent engineer.
Admiral said neither it, or its repairer were  told by Mr H to put the repairs on hold and repairs 
were authorised following Mr Hs confirmation of claim  on 25 January 2018.  Admiral said its 
communications with Mr H and the repairer were  clear and repairs  were completed before 
the estimated  date.  Admiral said it would send Mr H the wheel alignment report. 
In response to Miss A and Mr Hs complaint, Admiral instructed an independent engineer to 
check the repairs and said he found accident-related damage that had been missed.  It said 
the cost of further repairs rendered Miss A and Mr Hs car a total loss and it offered £100  
compensation for their inconvenience. Admiral  apologised to Miss A and Mr H for its delayed  
payment for their car and provided a replacement car and offered them  another £60 
compensation. This was made up of £10 per day for when they were without their car, and a 
further £10 for the loss of fuel. 
Mr H said that if the further  damage  had been  found earlier this may have been repaired 
without the car being a total loss. Admiral said the delay in identifying  the gearbox damage 
made no difference to the car being a total loss. 
The adjudicator upheld the complaint in part saying  Admiral  should have checked the repairs  
were authorised and should pay Miss A and Mr H another £50 compensation. She said 
delays were due to miscommunication  between the parties but as Miss A and Mr H were  
provided with a replacement car they werent disadvantaged. She said there was an 11- day 
delay in processing the total loss payment but Admirals  replacement car and its 
compensation for this was reasonable.
The adjudicator said Admiral had provided Mr H with a copy of the wheel alignment report. 
She said the car being dirty in bad weather and Admirals payment for fuel was reasonable. 
She said the engineer found damage to steering, gearbox and front bumper which meant  the 
car was uneconomical to repair. She said she understood Miss A and Mr H's frustration, but 
the compensation offered  by Admiral for all aspects  of their complaint was reasonable.
Ref: DRN48816102Miss A and Mr H did not agree with the Adjudicators recommended  settlement of their 
complaint. Mr H said the adjudicator hadnt understood that the complaint was mainly about 
the communication between the insurance  company and the approved repairers. They  
requested an ombudsman review their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the adjudicators view of their complaint Mr H said he wants us to consider 
communications between  Admiral and the garage about the authorisation of the repairs. 
Mr H spoke to the repairer and said it hadnt communicated properly and was dishonest with 
them about  the timescale and what repair work  had been done. Unfortunately,  the repairer 
doesnt record any calls.  We have listened to the calls between Admiral  and the repairer and 
looked at the emails  between the parties.  What emerges is a misunderstanding  between  the 
parties as to the estimation for repairs, obtaining  parts and the authorisation of repairs. I 
dont think there was a deliberate attempt to misinform Mr H but there was confusion  around 
the repairing  of their car, and I think the compensation of £50 recommended by the 
adjudicator about  this poor service is fair in the circumstances.
Miss A and Mr H were  also frustrated  about  their communications  with Admiral and between 
Admiral and the repairer about poor quality repairs to their car. I have thought  about  the 
impact this and the delay  in assessing the true extent of the damage has had upon them.
It would have been preferable if the full extent of the damage had been assessed at the start 
as this would  have allowed Miss A and Mr H to think about their options. However, since  
their car was reassessed  and written-off,  I dont think the decision to authorise repairs whilst 
Mr H was only expecting an estimate is as important as it might otherwise have been. I say 
this because Ive seen no evidence that had the full extent  of the damage to 
Miss A and Mr Hs car been discovered earlier, their car would have been repaired rather 
than written off. And I expect Miss A and Mr H would always  have claimed on her insurance  
policy had they known the full state of the damage to their car. 
I am pleased  that Admiral  and its repairer  provided  Miss A and Mr H with a replacement car 
during repairs and during the delay  in Admirals payment for the total loss of the car and I 
think this was a fair response to their situation.
I think that Admirals offer of £100 compensation for the delay in identifying the full extent of 
the damage to Miss A and Mr Hs car and the further  £60 for the delay in their payment 
being made and £10 for loss of fuel, is fair in the circumstances.  I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Admiral  treated Miss A and Mr H as liars,  or deliberately  misled  them.
Miss A and Mr Hs car arrived at the garage  on 26 January 2018. Admiral said the repairs  
were estimated to be complete on 27 February but were in fact completed on 14 February. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that the repairs were  delayed. Im pleased that Admiral 
sent Mr H a copy of the wheel alignment  report.
Ref: DRN48816103Having considered the service Miss A and Mr H received from Admiral  and the 
communications between  the parties,  I agree  with the adjudicators recommendation of 
further compensation of £50. If Miss A and Mr H agree, the further sum of £50 is to be paid 
in addition to the £170 already  offered,  bringing  the total compensation to £220.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. 
I require Admiral Insurance  Company  Limited  to pay Miss A and Mr H further compensation 
of £50 for the impact its poor service had upon  them. Admiral  Insurance Company Limited 
should also pay Miss A and Mr H £170 compensation it has already offered if this hasnt 
already been paid to them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4881610