K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that someone  transferred money  out of his account without his knowledge or
consent. Nationwide Building Society  wont refund the money. 
background
Mr A has been a customer of Nationwide for several years and holds a current  and a savings 
account.
On 13 April 2018 Mr A ordered  a replacement payment card for the current  account. He says 
he didnt receive  it. On the same day he received a legitimate payment of £2,800  for some  
work hed done  for an entertainment business - outside his normal  work.
On the afternoon of 21 April someone logged into Mr As accounts using a mobile phone. 
They removed all existing payees from the account and added one payee in their place. 
They didnt make any payments to that new payees account  at that time. In order to add a 
payee, however,  they needed to use Mr As debit card with a card reader - that is, they also 
needed Mr As PIN.
The following  day, 22 April, Mr A transferred £2,000 from his current  account to his savings 
account. This was most of the money hed received  for his work  just over a week  earlier. A 
couple of hours later £2,002 was transferred  back  to the current account before £2,250 was 
transferred to the account of the payee that had been set up the previous day. Nationwides  
records show that the payment from the current account was verified using Mr As card and 
PIN - as it had been when the account  had been  set up.
Mr A said he hadnt been responsible for the new payee being set up on his account, the 
transfer from his savings to his current  account  or - most significantly - for the payment  of 
£2,250 made from that account.  Nationwide  refused  however to refund the payment. It 
pointed out that it had been made using Mr As online  security  information, as well as his 
genuine card and PIN.
Mr A said that he hadnt received the replacement card. He mentioned that he lives with a 
number of other people,  including - at the time - a lodger. His card could have been  
intercepted, and he wasnt at home at the time it would have been delivered. He also said 
that he keeps  his security  information written down in the same  place.
Mr A referred the matter to this service  and one of our investigators considered it. He 
thought that Nationwide  hadnt shown that Mr A made or authorised the payment from his 
current account; he didnt  think  either  that Mr A had failed to take proper care of his card and 
security information. He recommended that Nationwide refund the disputed payment. 
Nationwide didnt accept  the investigators findings  and asked that an ombudsman  review 
them. 
I did that and, because I thought I would probably  reach a different conclusion  from that 
reached by the investigator, issued  a provisional  decision. In that provisional decision I 
concluded that, given the security measures needed to make a transfer from Mr As account, 
it was likely that he was involved  in the sense that he either made  the transfer himself or 
let someone else use his security details,  including his card and PIN. I didnt recommend 
that Nationwide refund the transfer.  
Ref: DRN40002152Mr A responded to reiterate that he didnt  make the transfer. He also expressed 
dissatisfaction that he hadnt been able to find out from Nationwide any information about the 
account to which the transfer  had been made, other than the bank involved. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied first of all that whoever  set up a new payee on Mr As account and then 
arranged the transfer of funds from that account was able to do so because they had both 
Mr As card and knew his PIN. Mr A has suggested that his card could have  been  
intercepted by someone sharing his address. Hes also said that post does from time to time 
go missing. But most  post is correctly  delivered, and so I think  it more likely than not that Mr 
As card did arrive safely at his home address.
I accept that Mr A did, as he says,  share  a house  with a number of other people,  not all of 
whom were  family members. It doesnt  appear  though that they would have known  he was 
expecting a replacement  bank card, and it wouldnt have been  obvious that one had been  
sent. So, whilst its possible that someone  else obtained the card without Mr As knowledge, 
I dont think its very likely.
However, since its possible  that someone did obtain Mr As card without his knowledge. Ive 
considered too how they might have known  his PIN. Hes indicated  that he kept it and other  
security information written down. Mr A says he usually kept that information with him. But 
he also indicated that his PIN was a significant date, and I note that he uses his card and the 
PIN fairly regularly; in the circumstances, its not clear to me why he would need to write  
down his PIN, having changed it to a number he could  easily  remember.  Im not therefore 
persuaded that the transfer from Mr As current account was made by someone who was 
able to intercept  his card and then to locate a record of his security information.
Its also significant in my view that whoever added a new payee to Mr As account waited a 
day before  making  the transfer. But if they had enough information to add a payee, they also 
had enough information to make  a transfer.  Waiting  a day ran the risk that Mr A might have 
realised he hadnt  received  his card, changed  his security information or seen  the changes  
to the list of payees on the account; but that person  appears to have been  confident theyd 
be able to access the account  on the following day. 
I note that two mobile devices were used to access the accounts  around the time of the 
disputed withdrawal. Mr A has acknowledged that he was responsible  for the transfer of 
money to the savings  account. But he also logged into his accounts on the evening  of 22 
April 2018, around  25 minutes after the disputed transfer. He was logged on for only a short 
time - but in my view long enough to have seen the transfer. He hasnt however sought to 
explain this. 
The investigator noted that Nationwide  appeared to have made an error in identifying  the 
devices used. But what is clear is that two different mobile phones were  used and that Mr A 
has said only one of them was his. The investigator noted too that different IP addresses 
were used. I dont place much weight  on that; its relatively easy to hide or disguise an IP 
address and they dont provide an exact location. And even if the accounts were being 
accessed from two different places using two different phones, I would  still need  to consider 
how someone other than Mr A had managed to obtain Mr As card and PIN and sufficient 
Ref: DRN40002153other security information to enable them to access his accounts and make a payment from 
one of them.
Mr A has said that he doesnt  think enough  was done to investigate the recipient of the 
money. I accept that there are many  circumstances in which  Mr A might  have  allowed  
someone else access to his account  and his security information. I also accept  that, in doing 
so, he may not have  expected money to be transferred from his account  and that he may not 
know who took it. But what I have  to decide  is whether  in the circumstances  Nationwide  
should refund the payment made;  and I have to make that decision in the light of the facts as 
I have found them.    
In my view the most likely explanation here is that Mr A either made the transfer himself or 
allowed someone else to make it, using his security details, card and PIN. In the 
circumstances it wouldnt be fair to make Nationwide refund the payment.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Nationwide Building Society  to do any more to resolve 
Mr As complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4000215