K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Canada Square  Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out online in 1994.  The policy was taken out at 
the same  time as Mr C applied for an Egg credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed so the complaint was passed  
to me. He said, in summary:
 he didnt need  or want  PPI because  he was eligible to get a generous amount 
of sick pay and had a sizeable amount in company shares; and
 if it had been  made  clear the PPI was optional and/or he had been given a 
clearer explanation  about the costs and benefits he wouldve  declined it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it 
here. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
 Mr C applied on line for PPI. Ive seen  a sample of the screen  he wouldve 
completed to apply  for PPI. The options  to select or decline PPI were  set out with 
equal prominence.  Canada Square  Operations  system records  show  that Mr C 
selected the box to take out PPI. So, on balance, I think  Canada Square  
Operations made it clear to Mr C the PPI was optional and he agreed to take it 
out.
 Canada Square  Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C, so it didnt 
have to check if it was suitable  for him.
 I agree its possible the information  Canada  Square Operations  gave Mr C about 
the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have been.  But Mr C chose to take out the 
policy and so appears to have  wanted  this type of cover.  He wasnt affected by 
any of the exclusions  or limitations  and the policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr C wouldve made a different 
decision if better information had been provided.  On balance, I think he would 
still have  taken out the policy.
Ive considered all of Mr Cs comments  including  his point that he was entitled to up to 12 
months sick pay (six months  at full pay and six months at half) so didnt need PPI. But, I 
dont think this made the policy  obviously  inappropriate. The PPI wouldve  paid out on top 
of his work  benefits  and allowed him to use these for other household expenses. Having 
his credit card repayments  covered may have been  important  to him, particularly when he 
was on half pay. 
Ref: DRN42589392Mr C said he had a sizeable amount of shares in the company he worked for. This hasnt 
changed my view. I dont  think  this meant  the policy was clearly inappropriate for him. 
Shareholdings can go up and down in value and I dont know  if there were any restrictions 
imposed on him cashing in these shares. I also think that when completing the on line 
application, where he chose PPI, Mr C wouldve likely known about this shareholding. 
I think Canada Square Operations  provided Mr C with enough clear information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether he wanted to buy the PPI. He selected the 
box to take it. I cant see that he has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
I dont uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4258939