K820x#14Complaint
Mr H has complained that Computershare Investor Services Plc didnt process a form of 
direction in respect of his former employers share save scheme, causing him a loss.
Background
Mr H left his employment  with A on 11 February 2018. He was a member  of As Share 
Incentive Plan (SIP) and Save As You Earn (SAYE) scheme. Computershare was the 
administrator of As SIP and SAYE  scheme  and issued leaver packs for each.
Mr H phoned Computershare on 9 March 2018  to advise that he wished to continue  paying 
into the SAYE scheme for an extra six months  as per the scheme rules. He was told by 
Computershare he could do so, but he would need  to return  the SAYE form of direction by 
11 August 2018  or his share options  would lapse.
Mr H returned the SIP form of direction to Computershare  and it was received on 
23 March 2018.  In June 2018  Computershare  wrote  to Mr H to remind  him that he needed to 
return the SAYE form of direction.
Mr H phoned Computershare in November 2018  explaining hed returned  the SAYE form of 
direction in June  2018, but he hadnt heard anything back.  Computershare  advised it hadnt 
received it. Mr H said hed returned  it with another copy of the SIP form of direction. He 
complained that Computershare had either lost the SAYE form of direction or failed to 
process it. Mr H said hed suffered a loss as he wouldve  sold the shares  at a profit.
Computershare didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it received two copies of the 
SIP form of direction,  one in March 2018  and another in July 2018. It said there  wasnt  any 
record of having  received  the SAYE  form of direction. As Mr Hs share options had lapsed on 
11 August 2018  it said Mr H would need to contact the bank holding the funds to get his 
savings back.
Mr H referred  his complaint to our service, saying  he had definitely returned  the SAYE form 
of direction in June  2018 and attached a copy of it. He also said that Computershare  should  
have contacted him after receiving the SIP form of direction for the second time, as per its 
terms and conditions.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought it was unlikely the SAYE  form of 
direction had been sent to Computershare. This was because  he didnt think  the SIP form 
wouldve been processed alone if it and the SAYE form had been sent in together.  He also 
didnt think Computershare needed to get in touch  with Mr H about receiving the second 
copy of the SIP form. Mr H didnt agree, so the complaint was referred to me to make a final 
decision. 
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
Mr H says he returned the SAYE form of direction to Computershare,  together with another 
copy of the SIP form, in June 2018.
Ref: DRN43497682I dont doubt it was Mr Hs intention to return the SAYE form to Computershare so that he 
could exercise his share options. But on balance, I dont think  he did. I say this because its 
clear Computershare  safely received the copy of the SIP form sent in June 2018. If the 
SAYE form had been  included  with this, I think it also wouldve been logged  and processed.  
I think its unlikely one form wouldve been  lost and the other  processed.
Ive also seen a copy of the second SIP form Mr H returned. This is dated  29 June 2018 and 
Mr H gave a landline  number as his daytime  contact number.  The copy  of the SAYE  form 
Mr H sent us, and which  he says he returned at the same time, was dated 28 June  2018  and 
Mr H gave a mobile number as his daytime contact number. It seems unlikely to me that he 
wouldve given different dates and different contact  numbers  on the forms if they were sent 
at the same  time. So, I dont think Mr H sent the SAYE form when he says he did. 
I cant say for certain what happened, but a possible explanation is that Mr H sent another 
copy of the SIP form of direction by accident instead  of the SAYE form of direction.  If thats  
the case, I think it would  clearly have been  an honest mistake on Mr Hs part. But it still 
wouldnt be fair for me to ask Computershare to allow  Mr H to exercise his share options 
now, which would cost it more, when I dont think it made a mistake.
Im also mindful that when  Mr H returned  his SIP form of direction in March 2018  requesting  
that his shares  be transferred, Computershare sent him a share certificate. Mr H says he 
returned the SAYE form at the end of June 2018. This was around six weeks before his 
share options lapsed. Although Mr H says he sent the form by recorded delivery, I still 
wouldve expected  him to follow up with Computershare to enquire why he hadnt received 
the share certificate he had requested before the share options deadline passed. But 
instead, it seems Mr H didnt contact Computershare until around three months later.
Mr H has also said that Computershare shouldve contacted him on receipt of the second 
SIP form of direction  to let him know it couldnt  process his instruction, as per the following 
terms:
4.2 We reserve the right not to follow your instructions where you have not provided us with 
a Participant ID. We may also reject  instructions from you if for example:
(a)you have not correctly completed  any documents  required by us
We will notify you in writing as soon as possible if we decide not to accept an instruction 
from you.
I can see why Mr H feels Computershare ought  to have  contacted  him on receipt of the 
repeat instructions. But I wouldnt  have expected it to on this occasion.  Computershare had 
already received the necessary instructions in respect of the SIP. So, even though it 
received a second copy, I dont think it couldve been expected to realise that Mr H had 
intended to send the SAYE form instead. As Computershare had already  sent Mr H a 
reminder to send the SAYE form of direction in June 2018, I dont think  it needed to do more.
I appreciate Mr H feels strongly that hes been treated unfairly by Computershare.  But as 
I dont think it received Mr Hs instruction before  11 August 2018, I dont think  it has acted 
unreasonably by refusing to allow Mr H to exercise his share  options.
Ref: DRN43497683My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4349768