K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that QIC Europe Ltd have wrongly declined her claim for the cost to repair a
collapsed wall at the front of her house, causing  her the expense of repairing it herself as
well as distress  and inconvenience.
background
Ms M had a home insurance policy with QIC which included  cover for accidental  damage.  
She contacted QIC to make a claim after the boundary wall at the front of her house 
collapsed suddenly, taking some of the adjoining neighbouring  wall with it.
Her builder  felt that the collapse had occurred  due to a substantial  build-up of water  and the
associated movement of soil behind  the wall after a lengthy period of poor weather.  The wall
had retained the soil from her front garden which sloped down towards  the wall from the
house, which was substantially higher than the wall and the roadway beyond  it.
QICs surveyor visited the site but concluded  that the wall had collapsed  due to poor
maintenance. His view was that the wall had shown signs  of failing in a photograph  from
2014 and that this must have continued until the point that it eventually collapsed.  As a
result, he concluded  that the damage  had occurred gradually over a period of time. This type
of damage was explicitly excluded from cover  under  the general conditions  of the policy.
Ms M argued  that there had been  a build-up of water and that this constituted  a flood in line
with the wording of the policy. She denied  that there had been a gradual deterioration of the
wall or that the picture produced from 2014  showed  this. She in fact explained that the area
that seemed to have been a repair was some repointing done as a result of replacement  of a
gas pipe. QICs surveyor had argued that this repair showed that the wall had previously
failed and needed to have  a temporary repair and that this showed  that problems had been
ongoing some  time before  the collapse.
QIC continued to decline the claim so Ms M brought her complaint to this service.  
Our investigator issued  two views  on what she thought the outcome should be. Both 
concluded that QIC were  correct to have declined the claim for the reasons  provided. As Ms 
M continued  to be unhappy  with the situation  her complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My initial  conclusions  were issued in a 
provisional decision as I felt that the complaint should be upheld  and the claim should  be 
paid.
I explained:
Ms Ms policy includes cover for accidental damage which the policy describes as:
sudden unexpected and physical damage  which;
i happens at a specific time
ii was not deliberate; and,
iii was caused  by something  external  and identifiable
Ref: DRN44596172The policy also covers loss caused  by flood as Ms M argued but for the moment  I will 
focus on this aspect of the cover. In its final response to her complaint QIC rightly 
refers to the cover for accidental damage  but argues that the general exclusion for 
gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage applied, the relevant part of which 
excludes:
Loss or damage as a result of wear and tear, fall in value  over time, general 
deterioration (whether  you were aware  of it or not) 
When considering  what the fair and reasonable outcome of a dispute  is I will look at 
all available information.  So, while not referred  to by QIC I will also for completeness 
highlight the poor  workmanship  general exclusion which  includes:
Loss or damage caused by poor workmanship, use of faulty materials  
(including latent  defects), or poor design (a latent defect is a fault which exists 
but which only causes  a problem at a later stage under certain conditions).
I have highlighted  the poor workmanship exclusion as QIC has argued that at least  
partly to blame for the walls collapse is the lack of sufficient drainage  holes built into 
the wall. Its argued that the wall wasnt fit for purpose as it held back a substantial 
slope of earth and stone  that formed Ms Ms sloping front garden. Its said that while  
water may have built up, the retained  earth  had applied  such pressure to the wall that 
it had been failing for some time and that this eventual collapse was simply the final 
symptom of that failure.
If I was satisfied that the wall had been failing due to poor maintenance or gradual 
wear and tear then I would agree with QIC and not uphold Ms Ms complaint. But the 
only evidence which Ive seen for its argument is the very brief report of its surveyor 
and a photograph from 2014. And I havent found either of those to be persuasive.
Ms M has pointed out that the surveyor  visited the site very briefly. I cant  confirm 
how long or thorough the inspection was but I can see that the conclusions are brief.  
The report  seems to me to suggest  that, in the surveyors opinion, the fact that the 
wall supported a sloped  garden  plus the evidence of a previous repair means  that it 
had been collapsing gradually over time from the pressure of earth held behind it.
But when I look at the photograph supplied later and which has been relied upon as
evidence of earlier failure, I see a solid looking,  upright wall, with a visible  but single 
point of repair which Ms M has explained was due to the movement  of a gas pipe. I 
dont see any evidence  of the wall bulging or failing, which I have  often seen on other  
cases where old walls have moved  over time. Behind the wall is a well maintained  
garden which descends  in stages to below  the walls level. While the final level of soil 
isnt immediately evident I can see that it is at least some way below the walls  
maximum height. And whatever the reason  for the repair, it, by its very nature, 
suggests maintenance had occurred rather than the opposite.
Turning to the issue of drainage, I think that this claimed omission would  need  to sit 
under the exclusion  relating to faulty design  or workmanship and a possible latent 
defect. But I understand  that this wall has stood for more  than 50 years and has 
apparently served  its purpose properly. I therefore  think that QIC have a difficult  task 
in claiming that there was a critical  fault in design  and construction that reasonably  
Ref: DRN44596173led to gradual failure over such  a long period of time. And the fact that the wall has 
stood, successfully, for such a long period  defeats, in my opinion,  the basic premise 
of QICs surveyor,  who seems  to suggest  that the wall was inadequate  to support the 
weight of the soil above it.
QIC might  argue  that an old wall has come  to the end of its reasonable life and that 
by definition this collapse is a form of gradual deterioration. I might think  that to be a 
fair conclusion if I felt that Ms M had allowed the wall to deteriorate  and not 
maintained it. Ive seen  no evidence for that. And in the absence  of any such  
evidence it seems likely that the conditions behind  the wall had changed and exerted 
previously unseen pressure on the structure. Ms M has cover  for accidental damage 
and I believe that the nature of this event fits the definition which QIC itself has 
chosen for such damage, being;  sudden,  unexpected  and physical. I believe that it 
was also likely caused by the external and identifiable build-up of pressure from soil 
and/or water  behind  it.
So while Ms M and her builders may have argued that there was a form of flood  
involved the simple  reality is that this claim is covered by the accidental damage 
protection under the policy. For QIC to legitimately not meet  the claim it would need 
to satisfy me that the above general exclusion(s) applied. For the reasons Ive given 
Im not satisfied thats the case.
Im not able to conclude  with any certainty that there was a build-up of water such as 
to constitute a flood  under  the policy. But nor am I persuaded that there wasnt. QIC 
made its decision and the wall was repaired by Ms M. We have no expert evidence, 
nor the damaged wall, to assess. But I will comment  upon another aspect of the 
policy cover  that hasnt been  mentioned  which may well be relevant. The policy 
includes cover  for landslip and QIC chooses  to describe that as sudden movement 
of soil on a slope or gradual  creep  of slope  over a period  of time. As Ive explained, 
Im satisfied that this claim is payable  under  the accidental damage  part of the policy 
and not excluded by the term relied upon. But if I werent persuaded that was the 
right conclusion, I think there is a very real possibility that better evidence  would  
show that either or both of these aspects  of cover applied to this claim.
For completeness Ill mention the comments made by both sides  about  the level at 
which the damage occurred to the wall and the impact on the neighbouring  wall. 
Neither, I think, are sufficiently relevant to affect the important factors  of this claim.
The neighbours partial collapse  was likely  caused by the major collapse of Ms Ms 
adjoining wall. So it provides no independent evidence of conditions that caused the 
collapse of Ms Ms wall. Nor does the lack of a complete collapse of the neighbours 
wall suggest  that Ms Ms wall must have been  faulty as QIC suggests.  Accidental 
damage doesnt need to occur in equal measure to a neighbouring  property to justify  
meeting a claim. While  conditions would have been  similar they are different wall 
sections under different loads. And I dont believe that theres any importance  to be 
placed on precisely where, in terms of depth, the wall collapsed.
Im aware that Ms Ms builder repaired  the neighbours wall and also her own.  Ive 
seen an invoice from 18/05/18 for £2880 which I presume was for all of the work 
carried out on Ms Ms behalf.  QIC applied a £5000 reserve on this claim and in my 
experience the apparent cost of £2880 for the work appears reasonable. My decision 
is that QIC should pay this invoice in final settlement of the claim. If Ms M is able to 
Ref: DRN44596174provide evidence of any additional costs incurred then she can send these for me to 
consider in response to this provisional  decision.
It is always difficult to assess how much, if any, compensation  should be paid when a 
claim is initially declined but then overturned by an ombudsman later. Insurers  are 
entitled to make decisions not to pay claims and that doesnt mean that 
compensation must follow if I decide that they were  wrong to do so. But in this case 
my view is that QIC have declined this claim on limited evidence.  It can challenge my 
provisional decision with any evidence it wants to supply but what Ive seen is very 
limited and I think that the brief conclusions of the surveyor,  and the reliance on the 
picture from 2014, werent sufficient to justify this claim remaining unpaid. QIC is 
responsible for the work of the agents it employs to handle  a claim and in this case  I 
believe it failed to apply  appropriate critical assessment of the evidence  and that in
turn has caused  the claim to be wrongly  declined.
Ms M has clearly been inconvenienced and caused  some distress by the way the 
claim was handled.  We dont seek to penalise the insurer  for a mistake but instead to 
award compensation for the actual distress and inconvenience that has been  
suffered by the consumer. Ive taken into account that Ms M is an elderly lady but 
also that the repair seems  to have been  organised successfully in reasonable time so 
she hasnt had to live with the damage since the incident. I think in all the 
circumstances an award of £250 compensation is appropriate  in this case.
Ms M responded to my request for further information about additional costs that she 
incurred, namely £200  for some initial debris  clearance. 
QIC rejected my provisional decision,  expressing  its strong disagreement. But it provided no 
further argument other than to again refer to the photograph from 2014 and restate its belief 
that this proved its position to decline the claim is fair.
Ive seen nothing  from QIC to justify a change in my view from the provisional decision.  QIC 
continues to argue that a photograph from 2014  shows that the wall was failing and that it 
follows that the eventual collapse was due to a gradual deterioration.  Ive covered that issue 
in detail in my provisional decision. The photograph shows a solid and well maintained wall. 
Ms M says that the visible repair was due to repointing after the movement of a gas pipe. 
And by definition it shows a wall that is being  maintained rather than left to deteriorate. QIC 
seems not to see the inconsistency in its approach to this claim. It argues that the wall is 
poorly designed, yet it stood successfully for more  than 50 years.  It believes that its been 
allowed to deteriorate, but refers  to a photograph  that suggests otherwise and actually 
demonstrates maintenance  having occurred. 
With a policy  that includes  cover for accidental damage it isnt appropriate for QIC to seek  to 
decline a claim such as this, seemingly based on the view that an old wall must by definition 
have failed gradually. I have pointed out that the policy covers this sudden collapse and also 
specifically includes cover for damage  caused by movement of soil such as on a slope like in 
this case. I repeat my view that theres  a lack of evidence to support  the claim being 
declined. The report from QICs surveyor is brief and doesnt provide  any compelling 
evidence for the conclusions  reached.  In the absence of evidence of the wall actually moving  
prior to the collapse, such as bulging or leaning, or of clear physical deterioration of mortar  
or stonework, its likely that the conditions of the ground have changed  in such  a way as to 
cause the sudden collapse.  
Ref: DRN44596175I invited Ms M to provide evidence of any further costs she incurred and she has supplied 
details of some clearance work that cost her £200,  and a replicated invoice from the 
tradesman who did the work. Im prepared to accept  that as sufficient evidence of these 
costs being reasonably incurred.  
As a result I think it fair that the award  made  in my provisional decision is increased to meet 
this extra  expense.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against QIC Europe  Ltd.
I require QIC to meet the full costs of the repair incurred by Ms M of £3080. Interest is 
payable on this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum  from the date that Ms M paid the 
invoices to the date that QIC reimburses  her. 
I also require QIC to pay compensation for distress and inconvenience of £250.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4459617