K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr S says FICL mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out to cover a store card in 2001. Our adjudicator 
didnt uphold  the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  so the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mr S aware  the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before adding the 
policy to his card. FICL has told us the PPI was added to Mr Ss card during a phone  call 
several years after he took out his card.
From the evidence provided by FICL I can see that Mr S didnt choose to take PPI when he 
applied for his card. I can also see that the PPI was added  to his card several  years  after he 
applied for it. So I think  its likely  that Mr S did apply  for the PPI over the phone. I cant  know  
for certain  what was said at the time but Mr S applied  for the PPI but he did so sometime  
after he applied  for the card itself, so I think he would have known he didnt have  to take the 
policy and chose to have it, although  I can understand why he may not remember this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  he had of making his 
repayments which included help from his wife and some savings. But while  Mr Ss wife 
would have wanted to help, her ability to would have been  dependent on her circumstances 
at the time, which could  have changed.  So I dont think this offer of help could be 
guaranteed. The policy would also have  protected Mr Ss savings so they could be used 
towards other expenses.
Mr S has told us he was self-employed at the time he took the policy  and had a medical 
condition. But the policy covered self-employed  people and Mr S has told us his condition 
was controlled at the time. While I accept Mr Ss medical condition  could have worsened and 
other related conditions  could have developed that wouldnt have been covered by the PPI I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest  there  was any sign of this happening at the time Mr S 
took the policy.
Ref: DRN41844352Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ss circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the remaining exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said, including that the policy only covered 15% of 
his card balance. But this would have been paid each month of a successful claim with 
potential to pay a substantial amount of any balance. So this does not change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4184435