K820x#14complaint
Mr D1 and Mr D2 have  complained that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold  them  a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover  a mortgage in 2000.
background
The mortgage was taken out in the joint names of Mr D1 and Mr D2. However, the PPI policy 
covered Mr D1 only, in the event that he became unemployed. Mr D1 and Mr D2 have stated 
that they do not recall being  sold PPI. They  have also said that it was unnecessary.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On Mr D1 and Mr D2s behalf,  their representative  disagreed with these findings,  and asked 
that an ombudsman  review this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr D1 and Mr D2s case.
In the mortgage  application form signed  by Mr D1 and Mr D2, there  was a section entitled 
Disablement (Accident  and Sickness) and Unemployment Protection. Both Mr D1 and Mr 
D2 signed separately in this section, under a statement confirming that they wished to take 
out PPI cover.
The form confirmed that only Mr D1 would be covered, and that this would be for 
unemployment only. Two questions relating to Mr D1s eligibility for PPI were  also answered. 
Taking into account that the mortgage form recorded that only Mr D1 would be covered by 
PPI, and selected unemployment  cover  alone (rather than also including  cover for disability),  
it seems to me more  likely than not that this resulted from a conversation  with the 
Nationwide representative  about  the type of PPI cover that was available.  By signing this 
section of the form, I consider that Mr D1 and Mr D2 did agree to take PPI cover out. In 
addition, based  on the way in which PPI was shown in the mortgage application, overall my 
view is that it is likely that this was presented to Mr D1 and Mr D2 as an optional  product.
Mr D1 and Mr D2 were  not advised by Nationwide to take out PPI. However, Nationwide  still 
had to give them clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the PPI so that they could 
make a properly informed choice about  it.
There might  have been areas in which Nationwide didnt give Mr D1 and Mr D2 as much 
information as it should have done. But taking into account their circumstances  (with  
particular reference  to Mr D1s as the sole PPI policyholder), my view is that better 
information would not have put them off taking out PPI. I say this for the following reasons:
I have noted  Mr D1 and Mr D2s comments about their sick pay entitlement when sold 
PPI. However, the policy  sold only covered Mr D1 in the event  of unemployment. Mr D1 
has also confirmed that when  he was made redundant a few years after taking out the 
policy, he did not receive any redundancy pay.
Ref: DRN48192302The PPI policy would  have paid a benefit if Mr D1 had been unable to work due to 
unemployment, for a period of up to 12 months for any one claim.  Bearing in mind  the 
importance of meeting  mortgage repayments, on balance my view is that PPI provided a 
useful benefit  to Mr D1.
Mr D1 was eligible for the cover, and wouldnt have been affected by any of the main  
things not covered  by the policy that might make  it unsuitable for him.
Ive not seen sufficient evidence to conclude that the PPI premium was unaffordable.
Although I appreciate that Mr D1 and Mr D2 will be disappointed with my findings, my 
conclusion is that the policy was not mis-sold. This means Nationwide  doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D1 and Mr D2.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr D1 and Mr D2 because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D1 and Mr D2 about that. Because Nationwide  
didnt tell Mr D1 and Mr D2, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D1 and Mr D2.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr D1 and Mr D2 any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D1 and Mr D2 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 March 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4819230