K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
Miss M says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Miss M opened a store card account in a shop in 2000. At the same time,  she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Miss Ms store  card 
each month  if shed been unable to work because of injury  or sickness, or if she lost her job. 
The policy also included life cover  and purchase and price protection cover.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. In summary,  she said 
that Miss M suffered from a long-term  medical condition  when she took the PPI out, which  
wouldnt have been covered by it. And she didnt  think Miss M would have taken the policy if 
FICL had made it clear to her that she wouldnt be able to claim for that condition. 
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed  to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss M 
and to FICL  on 18 March  2019. I summarise my findings:
Id seen a copy  of Miss Ms application for the store  card. It includes a section on 
Account Cover (a form of PPI). It instructs  the applicant only to sign if they require  the 
cover. Miss M signed specifically to indicate that she wished to take the cover, in addition 
to signing the form overall. I thought that it would have been clear  to Miss M from the 
way the form was set out that the PPI was optional. And given that she signed 
specifically to take the cover, I thought she decided to take it, knowing that she had a 
choice - although I could understand  why she may no longer remember  this, so many  
years later.
Based  on what we know about  how FICL usually sold PPI at the time, I didnt think  it was 
likely that it advised Miss M personally to take it out. So it didnt have to check  if it was 
suitable for her. But it still needed  to make  sure it gave  Miss M enough information to 
enable her to decide  for herself  if she wanted PPI, knowing what alternative means shed 
have had of making her monthly repayments if she was unable to work.
Ref: DRN42031502Miss Ms told us shed have been  entitled to some  sick pay from her employer at the 
time, but she cant remember how much. If shed made  a successful claim on the PPI, it 
would have paid a monthly benefit of 15% of what she owed on her store card.  And it 
would have done this each month until her credit  agreement  ended,  or she returned to 
work, or the outstanding balance had been repaid - whichever  was the earliest.  So 
I thought it was likely it would potentially have covered  Miss M for longer than shed have 
been entitled to sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition  to any 
payments she received  from her employer. So I thought the policy  could have been 
useful for Miss M, especially  as shes told us she didnt have any other means she could 
have used to make her store card repayments if she was off sick, or if she lost her job.
I acknowledged that it was possible the information FICL  gave Miss M about the cost of 
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have been. But I was satisfied that it would have  
been clear from the application form that there would be monthly premiums to pay for the 
cover. Id seen  nothing to suggest that the policy was unaffordable  for Miss M. And as 
she was paying  for it monthly, she could have cancelled it without any further cost if her 
situation changed.
I acknowledged that Miss Ms told us she suffered from two medical conditions  when she 
took the policy out. But shes  told us that she hadnt had any time off work for either of 
those conditions, even  though  theyd  both been diagnosed many years  earlier.  And both 
conditions are usually  well controlled with treatment. So based on what Id seen so far, 
I didnt think that when Miss M took the PPI out, shed have thought it likely that shed 
need to claim on the policy for either  of those conditions.
Miss M could potentially have claimed  successfully if shed been  off sick with any 
unrelated condition, or if she lost her job. So I didnt  think, on balance, that shed have 
made a different decision about  taking the PPI cover if shed been given better  
information about the exclusions  relating to existing medical conditions.  And she didnt 
appear to have been affected by any of the other main things the policy  didnt cover.
Taking everything into account,  I wasnt convinced  that better information about  the PPI 
would have put Miss M off taking it out. So I didnt  think shes lost out as a result  of 
anything that FICL  may have done  wrong.  And based on what  Id seen so far, I wasnt  
planning to uphold Miss Ms complaint.
further submissions
Neither Miss M nor FICL  has made any comment on my provisional  decision, and the time 
for doing so has now expired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Miss Ms case.
Having done so, I cant see any reason to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN42031503my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4203150