K820x#14complaint
Mrs I complains about issues  shes  experienced with a car supplied with finance  from CLS 
Finance Ltd.
background
In July 2018 Mrs I was supplied with a used car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with CLS.  The term of the agreement was 46 months and the total amount of credit  was 
£5,595. At the point of supply the car was 8 years  old and had covered 75,000 miles.
Shortly after taking possession of the car Mrs I experienced a knocking noise. The car was 
returned to the garage for repairs  and the exhaust pipe was replaced.
In December 2018 the car was returned to the garage again  with an anti pollution  fault and 
the horn not working properly. The garage  replaced the spark plugs and the siren.
Mrs I doesnt think  the car is of satisfactory  quality.  She says there were several faults with 
the car when  she purchased it which still havent  been fixed.  Mrs  I is no longer in 
possession of the car and her agreement with CLS has been terminated. She wants her 
deposit and monthly  repayments refunded.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt think  there  was enough  evidence  to 
show that the car was of unsatisfactory quality  at the point of supply.
Mrs I didnt agree so Ive been asked to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because CLS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied term 
that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. I would expect  a second  hand  car  such as that supplied to Mrs I  to have a degree 
of wear and tear. So in order to uphold the complaint I would need to be satisfied that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply  due to an inherent  defect rather than 
general wear and tear.
Mrs I and CLS disagree about  whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In order  to 
reach a decision,  I need to look at all of the available evidence and determine, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether I think the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply. 
Mrs I said she found a number of faults  with the car when she took possession of it. These 
included problems with the front disc and no washer  fluid.
I can see that approximately 3 months after the point of supply the exhaust  needed  
replacing, and that approximately  6 months  after the point of supply the speak plugs needed 
replacing. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that there  were  issues  with the discs  or 
Ref: DRN41394052the washer fluid but even if there  were  problems, replacing brakes  and discs  and keeping 
the car topped up with washer fluid are things which a consumer would be expected to do as 
part of the general maintenance of the car.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault arises in the first 6 months,  theres a 
presumption that the fault was present at the point of supply unless the business can show  
otherwise. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair  the fault. If the repair  isnt 
successful the consumer can reject the car. After  6 months the burden  of proof is reversed 
and its up to the consumer to prove  that the fault was present at the point of supply.
In relation to the repairs carried out on the exhaust, I havent seen any evidence  to suggest  
that these repairs  werent  successful. So I cant see any basis  to ask CLS to allow  Mrs I to 
reject the car.
The spark plugs were replaced  just at the end of the first 6 months. Again, I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest that these  repairs werent  successful. In addition, spark plugs are a 
component part of a car which requires replacement from time to time,  so I think  its more  
likely that the problem with the spark plugs was due to general  wear and tear rather than an 
inherent fault.
Ive reviewed the MOT history of the car to see whether there were any advisories relating to 
the problems which Mrs I has described  which might suggest  that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. I havent seen anything which indicates that there 
were any major faults with the car in the past. I can also see that the car passed its MOT in 
May 2018 with no advisories, shortly before it was supplied  to Mrs I.
Based on everything  Ive seen, Im unable to find any evidence that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality  at the point of supply. For the reasons  Ive given Im unable  to uphold  
the complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4139405