K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (when it was trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester) 
mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
Lloyds Bank  is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer to 
Lloyds.
background
When she took out a mortgage in June 1999  Ms L also bought PPI to cover her monthly 
repayments in the event  of accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Ms L took out a further advance a few months  later when she also took out additional PPI to 
cover the extra  amount  shed borrowed on her mortgage account.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  
Ms L mainly says that PPI wasnt mentioned or explained. She also says she wouldnt have 
needed PPI as she had other means  she couldve relied on to make  her monthly 
repayments.  
Ms L has asked for an ombudsman review so this complaint comes to me to make a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ls complaint. 
what happened  in June  1999 when Ms L arranged her mortgage 
Ms L remembered taking out PPI during  a meeting when  she was arranging her mortgage.  
I dont know what was discussed when Ms L decided to buy the PPI. But theres  nothing  in 
the mortgage paperwork Ive seen that suggests  Ms L had to take out PPI. 
There were Yes and No options  on the mortgage application to say if she wished to apply 
for the cover  so I think shed have known  she could  choose if she wanted  PPI. I can see 
that the yes option  is ticked on the mortgage application Ms L signed. And the no option, 
which is clearly shown  on the form, is left blank. So what Ms L says isnt enough on its own 
for me to be able to say that Lloyds didnt make  her aware of the PPI or that it was optional.  
Ms L has signed the completed application  at the end to confirm that she agreed with what  it 
says on it. 
Ms L also filled in her details and signed a separate application form in order to take out the 
PPI.
Ref: DRN47699932Based on the information Ive seen I find that Ms L chose to have PPI, knowing she couldve 
declined the cover if she hadnt  wanted  it.
Lloyds says it recommended the policy to Ms L. If a business makes  a recommendation 
about PPI, it doesnt  just have to give important policy  information  in a clear  way. It also has 
to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
She was eligible for the policy. Ive taken into account Ms Ls comments, including  what  
shes said about having other  means to cover  the repayments. She was entitled to some  sick 
pay. But the policy wouldve covered her mortgage repayments (plus  some extra) for longer 
than she couldve relied on getting full sick pay. And PPI wouldve paid out on top of her 
work benefits for up to 12 months  per claim if Ms L was too sick to return to work or if she 
lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work.  Repeat claims were possible  under the policy 
so it gave Ms L long term protection for her mortgage. 
Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped Ms L if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve  got if shed 
lost her job, giving  her some additional  financial security in those circumstances.
Although Ms L mentioned having death in service  benefit, and life insurance set up, PPI 
provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different  circumstances.
Looked at overall, I think PPI was a suitable  recommendation for Ms L looking at her 
circumstances when  she took out her mortgage.  
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  Ive taken into account that Ms L told us 
about a medical  condition  shed had at the time she took out her mortgage. But, although the 
condition mightve  been excluded under the policy, Ms L said she had medication that 
seems to have helped her manage  her condition effectively as its not a condition shes ever 
had to take time off work for and she says it didnt affect her day to day life. So I think its 
unlikely that Ms L wouldve expected to claim under the policy  for this condition. Or that she 
would have been put off taking out the policy because of it. So this information doesnt 
change my decision. And it doesnt  look like any of the other  policy limitations or exclusions 
wouldve affected Ms L. So I dont think its likely that having  more information about the 
policy terms wouldve stopped her taking out the PPI.
Ms L chose to take out the policy and so she appears to have  wanted  this type of cover and 
it seems to have been  affordable  for her. The cost of the policy  was shown in the welcome 
letter sent to her and Ms L couldve queried it then if she decided  this wasnt  something she 
wanted to pay for. But, from what Ive seen, it doesnt look as if that happened.  
Ive kept in mind  also that Ms L couldve  cancelled  within 30 days of the policy start date 
without having  to pay anything if she didnt want to pay the amount of the monthly premiums. 
And she had signed  an instruction form to her bank to cover the cost. So, I think its fair and 
reasonable for me to say that it seems  she was happy at the time to pay for PPI. And as she 
was paying for it monthly she could cancel it at any time, without further  cost,  if her 
circumstances changed or she no longer wanted it.
Ref: DRN47699933Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  But I think 
Ms L still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed  been better informed as the policy  gave 
her useful protection in her particular situation.  I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped her buying it.
what happened  in August 1999 when Ms L arranged  her further borrowing  
When Ms L applied to borrow more money on her mortgage account she also completed  a 
separate PPI application. She filled in details of the cover  she wanted and added  a note to 
say This is in addition  to my existing  cover.
So I think that Ms L was aware that it was up to her to say whether or not she wanted PPI. 
And she made it clear  she wanted more PPI to top up the cover she already had. 
As far as I can see her circumstances were unchanged and the extra PPI gave Ms L the 
same protection she already had in place for her existing borrowing. Looking at the 
information she provided at the time,  I think Ms L continued to be able to benefit in full from 
everything the policy offered her. The policy couldve provided the cover  she paid for if shed 
needed to claim. And it gave her valuable protection she didnt otherwise have.
Looked at overall, even if there mightve been some failings in the way Lloyds sold PPI to 
Ms L, I dont find that Ms L has lost out as a result  of anything  that Lloyds mightve  done  
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4769993