K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that the vehicle with which  he was supplied through  a hire agreement  
financed by Ald Automotive  Limited was not of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject  the 
vehicle and be paid £350 compensation.
background
Mr R tells us that he acquired the vehicle in early  September 2018 through  a dealer Ill refer 
to as C. He says he noticed a defect with the steering wheel which was mentioned to the 
salesman. But he (Mr R) says he was assured it was only an issue  with stitching. Mr R says 
a few days later he reported  the steering wheel to be damaged and told C that he had a right 
to reject the vehicle. And he states  he advised C of additional faults with the vehicle relating 
to the brakes  making a scratching  noise and glue on the windscreen. He says after he 
dropped the vehicle off, C had later told him it had looked at the brakes  and removed the 
glue from the windscreen. But it had said the steering wheel wasnt covered under warranty 
and would only offer a second hand replacement.  He says he called Ald to explain the 
situation but doesnt consider it took this seriously. And that it was almost two months  before 
it acknowledged his complaint. Mr R says the steering wheel  was eventually replaced  but 
still doesnt feel right. He confirms that Ald offered a £70 credit  but Mr R says he it didnt 
follow its complaints procedure and he wants at least £350 compensation. He says thats 
what a friend  of his was awarded in a similar case. He tells us Ald has refused his request to 
reject the vehicle and return  his deposit.
Ald told us it had arranged for a new steering wheel to be fitted and this had taken place on 
9 November 2018. It said it hadnt  accepted Mr Rs request to reject the vehicle as it didnt 
consider there to have been  a manufacturing  fault as confirmed  by the refused warranty  
claim. It said it felt it had provided a good service  to Mr R throughout and didnt consider hed 
suffered any financial  loss. In addition to paying  for the replacement  steering wheel it said it 
had issued a £70 gesture of goodwill.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He said Mr R had 
accepted a new steering wheel being fitted  to the vehicle.  And he felt that the level of 
compensation awarded in a different case was irrelevant as each case was decided on its 
own merits. He didnt  think  rejection of the vehicle was an acceptable outcome and felt that 
Ald had offered  suitable outcomes throughout.
Mr R didnt agree with this outcome and as its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr R experienced some problems with this vehicle at the start of the hire 
period. And I understand that this would  be disappointing  as its reasonable to expect a new 
vehicle will be free from faults.
Ref: DRN44174342There are several different elements to Mr Rs complaint and Ill try to deal with each of 
them. I should also explain  that Mr R has referred to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) 
and what he believes are his rights to reject  the vehicle under that legislation.  I dont  apply 
the law - directly - but I do take it into account.  
I can see that Mr R complained to Ald about a defect with the steering wheel a few days  
after collecting the vehicle. And I note there were then various  contacts, including with C, 
which eventually resulted in a replacement  steering  wheel being fitted.
Im aware there were a number of issues before  then which  included  only a second  hand 
replacement wheel being initially offered; a delay in photographs of the wheel being taken 
(which was required to support  a warranty claim) and the imposition of a £10 insurance 
charge for a courtesy  vehicle. As far as I can see these matters arose from the actions of C 
and were dealt with by Ald. 
Ald arranged for a new replacement steering  wheel  and this was fitted on 9 November 2018.  
Whilst Mr R thinks  this was too long a delay wed normally expect a business to have up to 
eight weeks to respond. And given that Ald not only replied but had arranged for the repairs  
to the vehicle to be carried  out in less than this time I cant say theres been any 
unreasonable delay. 
Ive considered whether Mr R should now be able to reject  the vehicle and Ive reached  the 
conclusion that this would not be a fair and reasonable outcome. The CRA provides a short 
term right to reject goods which dont  conform to contract - that is they arent  of satisfactory  
quality at the point of supply. Ill assume for the purposes of this complaint that this applied 
here. Although I note the warranty claim failed as it was felt the steering wheel defect was 
due to outside influences not a manufacturing fault.  But I dont need to make any formal  
finding on this issue in order to reach my decision.
The short term right to reject should  ordinarily be exercised within  thirty days  of supply. I 
accept Mr R raised this issue with C - but Ive seen nothing to suggest he chose to reject the 
vehicle at that time. Indeed its clear  he was more engaged with seeking a brand new 
replacement steering wheel. After this period a business is allowed an opportunity to repair 
goods. And thats what happened here.
Mr R later indicates his intention to reject  the vehicle when he wrote to Ald to express his 
frustration at the delays in replacing  the steering  wheel and the £10 excess charge. But by 
this time the period in which the short term right to reject  could  be exercised had lapsed. And 
the vehicle was subsequently repaired.  Whilst Mr R says the replacement  wheel doesnt  feel 
the same  Ive not been provided  with any information to show that theres anything  wrong  
with it. In those circumstances I cant say Ald acted unfairly in refusing to accept the vehicle 
being rejected.
Dealing with the level of monetary compensation I should confirm  that in its final response 
letter Ald said that £70 it offered would be credited to Mr Rs account. I cant  see where it 
said it would  reduce the amount taken  from his next direct debit. 
Ref: DRN44174343And whilst our adjudicator  has already indicated that awards  of compensation made  in other  
cases are not directly relevant to this complaint,  Id also make an additional  point. The 
purpose of compensation is not to punish a business its to offer some  recompense to a 
customer if a business  has made  an error which justifies an award.  From what  I can see Ald 
has responded to Mr Rs concerns within the time limits wed expect. And it addressed 
specific issues relating  to the second  hand replacement offer in a manner which resulted in a 
favourable outcome to Mr R with a new replacement being  obtained  at no expense  to him. 
The basis  of the goodwill  gesture of £70 was said to be the slight delay  in submitting the 
warranty claim. Ive already indicated I think Ald processed the complaint within a 
reasonable timeframe  so its not an award  Id have made for that reason. But I recognise 
Mr R was subject to some inconvenience in having  to return  his vehicle to C due to the 
issues he raised. And £70 is commensurate  with the level of award  Id have been minded to 
make in this respect.  
In summary,  I dont think there are reasonable grounds on which  to require  Ald to accept the 
rejection of this vehicle.  And I think Ald has provided a level of compensation which is fair 
and reasonable in the overall  circumstances of this complaint.  I shant be asking it to do 
anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4417434