K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that Lloyds  Bank  Plc (Lloyds)  mis-sold a Select and a Platinum 
account to him in January  2006  and July 2006 respectively.
background
Our adjudicators have  already looked at Mr Ls complaint,  initially  they looked into whether 
we could assess the sale of the Platinum account  as Lloyds has said the complaint brought  
about this upgrade was made  too late. Our adjudicators did not think we could look into the 
sale of the Platinum account. Mr L has not objected to this.
This case was then passed on for an adjudicator to look into whether  the Select account was 
mis-sold and they did not think that it had been.  Mr L disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
For the sake of clarity I should explain that I am only looking at the sale of the Select 
account. I am not looking at whether we can consider the sale of the Platinum account as Mr 
L has not disagreed with our findings on this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ls complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I dont think  that Lloyds 
mis-sold the packaged  account to Mr L. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr L was given a clear choice in taking his packaged  
account. At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened  taking everything  into consideration.
In this instance Mr L opened his account  as a Select  account and he has said that he was 
told that he needed the Select account as it would improve his credit  rating.  Mr L has not 
said that he was unaware that free accounts were  available.  I can see though  that six 
months later he downgraded the account  to a fee free account prior to the upgrade to the 
Platinum account.  If Mr L upgraded his account  in order  to improve  his credit rating I cant 
see why he would downgrade  his account 6 months after taking  it out. I think  that it is more  
likely that he took out the Select  account  for the benefits that it came  with.
In this instance I am satisfied that Lloyds  made  a personal recommendation that Mr L take 
out this account  when  this account was taken  out the benefits that it came with were  
breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance. Lloyds says that it recommended the Select  
account for the mobile phone insurance  that it came with. Mr L did register a phone  for the 
mobile insurance albeit  by that time the account had been changed to a Platinum account. 
Mr L has also said that he had his own mobile  phone insurance, which  suggests  that Mr L 
did have a need for this type of cover, and he has not explained why he could  not have used 
the cover  that came  with the account.  It may have been that Mr L could  not have used the 
breakdown cover, but the Select account  was the cheapest account  that Lloyds offered that 
came with mobile phone  insurance so I think that this account was a reasonable fit for Mr Ls 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN42024312Mr L has said that the benefits were not explained  in full to him and I accept that this may 
have been the case. But I think  that the main benefits would have been highlighted by 
Lloyds to make the account seem attractive  to Mr L. I note that Mr L has said that he was not 
told that he should register his mobile  phone handset to be covered by the insurance. But as 
he did not try and make a claim when he held the Select account, I cant  see that he has lost 
out in any way during the period he held this account. I do note though that he tried to make 
a claim under the Platinum account  (which  seems to have been unsuccessful)  but this would 
relate to the information provided  to him during the sale of the Platinum account which we 
have already explained that we cannot look into. So I dont think potentially  not being  told 
about this during the sale of the Select  account caused Mr L any financial loss. I also cant 
see anything else specific that Mr L was not told that I think wouldve altered his decision to 
take out the account.
Mr L may now believe he hasnt benefitted from his packaged accounts as much as hed 
hoped and expected. And given what he may have read about  packaged  bank accounts  in 
general, I can understand why he might now think his accounts  were mis-sold. But I think  its 
most likely Mr L upgraded after having been  provided with a choice and having an idea of 
what the benefits where. So I want  to reassure Mr L that having  looked at everything 
provided and thought  about what hes said, my independent conclusion is that I dont think  
Lloyds mis-sold the Select packaged  account  to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4202431