K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA)  declined  their travel 
insurance claim.
background
Mr and Mrs B had an annual travel insurance  policy with IPA.
They cancelled a holiday  they were due to go on because their son was arrested and 
required to attend  court. 
Mr and Mrs B tried to claim cancellation costs  from their insurance  policy. But IPA declined  
their claim. It said that their reason for cancelling wasnt covered under the terms of the 
policy.
Mr and Mrs B thought their claim  should  be paid. They  said they believed there were two 
valid reasons why they met the conditions of the policy.  
They referred to wording in the policy which said you or any person who you are travelling 
or have  arranged to travel  with being quarantined,  called as a witness at a Court of Law or 
for jury service attendance.  They said their son, who was travelling with them  was due to 
attend court as a key witness at the time they were due to be on holiday. 
Mr and Mrs B also referred to wording regarding  the death, bodily injury, illness, disease or 
complications of pregnancy of:
a)you
b)any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with 
They said that their son was dealing with depression which is an illness. 
Our investigator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. She said the term 
about being called as a witness  isnt intended to provide cover  for any person who is 
charged with a crime. Although she appreciated their son had to attend court, she didnt 
think it was in the capacity of a witness. She said she also hadnt  seen any medical evidence 
to confirm that the reason  Mr and Mrs Bs son was unable to travel  was for medical reasons. 
But even if she did, it seemed that Mr and Mrs Bs son was still planning on going on holiday 
and it was only due to attending court that he wasnt able to travel. So she wasnt  satisfied  
that his illness was the sole reason for the cancellation of the holiday.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our investigators view.  They said the wording in the policy 
does not clearly state its intention not to provide  cover for any person charged  with a crime.
As Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators  opinion, their complaint has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold their complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN41740212The relevant  industry  rules say that an insurer shouldnt unreasonably reject  a claim. So Ive 
needed to decide whether IPA acted  reasonably  in declining Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
Mr and Mrs B say they cancelled their holiday because  their son had to attend court. They  
say their reason  for cancelling is covered by the terms of the policy  which says it provides 
cover for cancellation of a trip if you or any person  who you are travelling or have arranged 
to travel with being quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service  
attendance.
Witness isnt defined  in the policy document. So Ive considered  the ordinary, everyday 
meaning of the word.  Mr and Mrs B have provided a copy  of a document  regarding  their 
sons requirement to attend  court. The document theyve sent is entitled notice of grant of 
bail with conditions. It gives the date that their son must attend court which  was during the 
time they were due to be on holiday. It also says that unless your attendance  has been 
excused at the next hearing  and recorded  above, you will commit an offence if you do not 
attend court on the date and at the time and place, as instructed. If you do not attend when 
told a warrant may be issued for your arrest.
Mr and Mrs B say that their son was required to be at court  because  he was a witness at his 
own trial. But I think this document shows that their son had to attend court because it would 
have been an offence not to do so. He wasnt simply called as a witness, he was required to 
attend court because  he was the defendant in his own trial. 
Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs B have  said about their son suffering from depression.  
But from what theyve said, it seems that the reason  for their son not going on holiday was 
the requirement for him to attend court, rather than his illness. Theyve  said his depression 
was due to recent events. I can also see that the date theyve given  on their claim form as 
the date they became aware of the need  to cancel, is the same  date as the one on the 
document informing  their son that he needed to attend court.  So I think  the primary reason 
for Mr and Mrs B cancelling the holiday was the court  case. And if it wasnt  for the court 
case, I think its unlikely  they would have  cancelled the holiday.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs B felt that they needed to cancel their holiday under the 
circumstances. And I can appreciate that this must have been a very difficult time for them  
and for their son. But unfortunately,  their reason for cancelling isnt covered under the terms 
and conditions of the policy. So I dont think that IPA has acted unreasonably in declining 
their claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 November  2019. 
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4174021