K821x#15complaint
Miss M has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of her car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes their agents.
background
In 2016, Miss M claimed on her policy for a replacement windscreen  for her car. Advantage 
got one of their approved windscreen technicians to carry out the work.  The windscreen was 
first replaced in August 2016.  Miss M said the windscreen hadnt been fitted properly. She 
complained that the rear view mirror  kept falling off and the rain sensor wasnt working. 
Advantage accepted that the wrong glass had been used. Miss M said that in total the 
windscreen was replaced four times, but it wasnt done properly and all the outstanding 
problems hadnt  been resolved. Miss M also complained about  a problem with her cars 
headlights and damage to the bumper that she said was caused while her car was with 
Advantages technician.
In February 2018,  Advantage  got an independent engineer to assess the car. The engineer 
said rectification work was needed and that the cost would  be £1,002.25 for parts and 
labour. In June  2018, Miss M had her car assessed by the main dealer who said the car 
needed £1,423.99 worth of parts. But the main dealer said, although Miss M could buy the 
parts from them, they couldnt carry out the work,  but they recommended two garages that 
could.
Miss M complained. She said:
Her car wasnt repaired properly and Advantages service was poor.
She spent substantial amounts of time dealing with this issue  during her time off 
work. She also had to take time off work which lost her income because she is self-
employed.
She was planning to sell her car in early  2017, but because Advantage failed to 
repair it she was unable to do that. As a result, as her car got older and its mileage 
increased, her car depreciated  in value.
She suffered  a lot of distress and inconvenience  over the years  this matter  has been 
ongoing.
Advantage upheld Miss Ms complaint in part. They accepted the service was poor and that 
the repairs and rectification  work  were substandard.  They also acknowledged that Miss M 
spent a substantial  amount  of her time as a result. Advantage suggested that they should 
either pay to have the car repaired at a garage  of Miss Ms choice or pay her a cash  in lieu 
settlement. Advantage offered Miss M £250 compensation. Miss M didn't think  that was fair 
so she brought  her complaint to us. 
Given Miss Ms lack of faith in Advantages technician, both parties agreed that the best way 
forward would be for Advantage to make a cash in lieu settlement. But they couldnt agree 
on an amount. After Miss M brought her complaint to our service, Advantage offered her a 
further £200 compensation for the poor service, bringing the total amount of compensation 
offered to £450.  One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He felt that the 
compensation offered by Advantage was fair. He also felt that a cash in lieu offer of 
£1,002.25, the amount the independent  engineer instructed by Advantage said it would cost 
Ref: DRN46269232to put the car right, was fair. He also didnt think Advantage  should  pay anything  towards  the 
cars depreciation or Miss Ms loss of income.  As Miss M didnt agree with our adjudicator, 
the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 6 June  2019.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Miss M has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered all of those very 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My 
role is to decide if Advantage have dealt  with Miss M in a fair and reasonable way.
the cash in lieu settlement  offer
After almost two years  and, as I understand it, four windscreen replacements,  
Miss Ms car wasnt put back into the position it was in before the incident that led to 
the need for the windscreen to be replaced.  Throughout that time Advantage tried to 
get the car repaired  through one of their approved  windscreen technicians. I also 
understand that on at least one occasion they also used an independent engineer  to 
carry out some rectification work,  but that again didnt resolve the problems. I can 
therefore understand why Miss M lost faith in Advantage  and their repairers.
I think Advantages offer to Miss M to either pay for her own chosen repairer to carry 
out the rectification work or to pay her a cash in lieu settlement was fair. And Miss M 
agreed to a cash in lieu settlement. But the sticking point has been the disagreement  
over the amount of that settlement.
In February 2018,  the independent  engineer  Advantage  got to assess the car said it 
would cost £1,002.25 to rectify the remaining problems  with the car. That amount  
included parts and labour. But in June 2018, Miss M had her car assessed by the 
main dealer  who quoted £1,423.99 only for the parts needed  to rectify the remaining 
problems. The main  dealer said they werent able to carry out the work needed, but 
they recommended two garages that could. Advantage have  disputed  the main 
dealers quote. Advantage said it wasnt clear from the quote what  all the parts  listed 
were and why they were  necessary to fix the car. They also said that the main 
dealers quote  had more parts than the independent engineer had said was 
necessary. But given Advantage had two conflicting quotes and they didnt agree 
with Miss Ms one, I think  they could have got clarification  from the main  dealer or 
asked another  independent engineer to give an opinion. But they did neither.
Of the £1,002.25  quoted by the independent  engineer, he said £248.50 was for 7.1 
hours of labour. That amounts to £35 an hour for labour  charges.  In his quote  the 
independent engineer said no estimate has been  obtained for repairing the 
vehicleparts quoted  are for guidance only and are subject to confirmation. This 
being subject  to an estimate  being obtained and costs being agreed.  I therefore 
think the independent engineers quote, compared to the main  dealers quote,  wasnt  
decisive.
Throughout her dealings with Advantage, Miss M repeatedly told them  that she was 
self-employed and that she worked  long hours  and had unusual working patterns. 
Ref: DRN46269233For example, she said she could at times be working 16 hours a day and be away  
from home for work for weeks on end, sometimes in different cities and sometimes 
abroad. She explained that she had very limited  time and availability. At times when 
Advantage asked  her to take her car to garages  to get quotes,  although on occasions 
she did do that, on some occasions  she asked if Advantages agents could collect 
her car because she was unavailable because  of work commitments.  I dont think 
Miss Ms request was unreasonable. When Advantage received and questioned the 
quote for parts Miss M obtained  from the main dealer, they said they wanted her to 
get further clarification. But I think, given  the history of this matter and Miss Ms 
circumstances, it would  have been reasonable for Advantage to have contacted the 
main dealer  to get the clarification they wanted. But they didnt do that and instead  
put the onus on Miss M, which I dont think was fair.
Likewise, our service provided Advantage with the details of the two garages the 
main dealer  recommended to Miss M who could fix her car. I think it would have been 
reasonable for Advantage to contact those  garages  to get quotes for the rectification 
work. Advantage, as Miss M suggested, could have  also arranged  for her car to be 
collected and taken to those garages  for assessment. But they didnt do that and 
again put the onus  on Miss M. Advantage  knew that to take her car to a garage, 
Miss M was going to either lose income  by not working, or that she was going to use 
up her limited free time. Given Advantage have accepted the repairs to date had 
been substandard, as was the service Miss M received, I think  Advantage should 
have done a lot more  to help put things  right.
So I intend to require Advantage to pay Miss M £1,423.99, which  is the main dealers 
quote for the parts needed to fix her car. I also think Advantage  should  pay simple 
interest on that amount at 8% a year from the date of the claim until payment is made  
to Miss M.
The independent engineers estimate  for labour  charges was £248.50. That was for 
7.1 hours of labour which works out at £35 an hour.  The number of parts  on the main  
dealers quote  is substantially more than the parts said were needed by the 
independent engineer. That would  mean  more time would be needed to carry out the 
work. I therefore intend to require Advantage to pay for 10 hours of work at £35 an 
hour. That amounts  to £350. VAT should  also be added to that at 20%. So that brings 
the total to £420. I also intend to require Advantage to pay simple interest on that 
amount at 8% a year from the date of the claim until payment is made  to Miss M.
depreciation of the car
Miss M intended to sell her car in early  2017.  But because her car wasnt  repaired 
she wasnt able to sell it and had to keep using it. As a result,  she added well over 
20,000 additional miles to the odometer, which she wouldnt have done had she sold 
the car. She said her car has therefore  depreciated in value.
While I do have sympathy for Miss Ms position,  and while I agree that increased 
mileage does often  have a negative impact  on a cars value, I dont  intend  to uphold 
this part of the complaint. Miss M clearly needed a car and it would appear she used 
it regularly. Had she replaced her car in early 2017,  I think the additional miles would 
have been added to the new car, which I think would have had a similar depreciation 
effect on her new car. So, either way, I think whichever car she had it would have 
accumulated the additional miles.  But it must have been frustrating for Miss M to not 
Ref: DRN46269234be able to sell the car when she wanted.  I have therefore factored this aspect into the 
compensation I intend to award  as detailed below.
loss of income
Miss M is self-employed. And its clear she has spent substantial amounts of time to 
get this matter resolved over the years this issue has been  ongoing.  She said some 
of the time she expended happened  in her limited free time. She also said she had to 
take some  time out of work which meant  she didnt  get paid. I understand it has been  
difficult for Miss M to evidence her loss of earnings  given she is self-employed.  So 
while I have sympathy for her position, Im not intending to make an award for her 
loss of earnings without  specific  evidence.
But, that being said, it is clear Miss M has spent a substantial amount of her free 
time. And had Advantage repaired her car satisfactorily early on, Miss M wouldnt 
have had to spend that time. I have  therefore  factored this aspect into the 
compensation I intend to award  as detailed below.
poor service
Advantage have  accepted that the service they provided to Miss M was poor.  Its now 
almost three years from when Miss M asked Advantage to replace her windscreen.  I 
understand the windscreen was replaced  four times  yet the problems werent 
resolved. Miss M has had to spend  substantial amounts of time speaking with 
Advantage; sending emails; taking her car to garages; and making alternative travel 
arrangements. 
While at times Advantage did provide  a courtesy  car, most of the time they didnt. 
Miss M has had to drive  the car in the condition  it was in while  at most times it was 
without a rear view mirror, which was potentially  unsafe. 
I think Advantage could  have done  more and they should have taken more 
ownership of the problems. They  said they had issues  with, and there  was a lack of 
cooperation from, their windscreen technician. But that is a matter for Advantage and 
not Miss M. When  it was apparent that things werent going as planned and Miss M 
was being adversely affected, I think Advantage should have taken  the car to another  
technician, or the main  dealer. Instead of telling Miss M to take her car to the main 
dealer for an assessment  they could have done  that for her to limit the impact on her, 
but they didnt.  Even after two years of poor service  and failed  rectification  works, 
Advantage still put the onus on Miss M to get quotes. The successful replacement  of 
a cars  windscreen shouldnt take several  years. I dont think  Advantages actions  
were reasonable.
Miss M has endured a lot of distress  and inconvenience since  the summer of 2016 
when she made her claim. She made Advantage aware of her health  issues  and the 
affects this ongoing problem had on her. I think it also caused disruption to her work 
and private life, and it must have been particularly distressing to have  to spend 
substantial periods of time dealing with matters  during her free time. I therefore  think  
compensation of £450 is wholly inadequate  to reflect the distress and inconvenience  
she has suffered. I therefore  intend  to require Advantage to pay Miss M £1,000 
compensation for the prolonged distress  and inconvenience she has had to suffer.
Ref: DRN46269235The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Miss M agreed with my provisional 
findings. Advantage didnt  make any comments.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited  to:
Pay Miss M £1,423.99  for the parts  needed  to fix her car. Simple  interest should be 
added to this amount  at 8% a year from the date of the claim until payment is made 
to Miss M.1 
Pay Miss M £420 for the labour costs. Simple interest should be added to this 
amount at 8% a year from the date of the claim until payment is made  to Miss M.
Pay Miss M £1,000  compensation for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Miss M has 
accepted my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on 
that amount  from the date of my final decision to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2019.   
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
1 If Advantage consider that they are required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest, they should tell Miss M how much they have taken off. They should also give her a 
certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN4626923