K821x#15complaint
Ms Cs complaint is about an exclusion The Equine  and Livestock Insurance Company 
Limited (ELI)  have  placed on her pet insurance policy.
Ms C says the exclusion is unfair.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in August 2019, part of which is copied below:
Ms Cs dog was involved in an altercation with another dog, during which  the other dog was 
injured and required treatment. Ms C offered to pay for this treatment. Following this she 
called ELI to find out how much her policy  excess was so she could  work  out whether it was 
worth claiming on the policy for the injury to the other dog. The policy excess  was £250. The 
cost of the treatment  required  was less than this so Ms C decided not to claim on her pet 
insurance policy.
Whilst discussing the policy excess with ELI, Ms C explained the circumstances surrounding 
her query. As a result  ELI took the decision to apply  an exclusion to the insurance to exclude  
any and all claims arising as a result of Ms Cs dogs aggressive  behaviour.  Ms C was 
unhappy with this. She said she didnt make a claim under the policy,  the altercation wasnt 
serious and only resulted  in a minor injury to the other dog and she was never made  aware 
that this might happen when she took out the policy.
Our investigator considered Ms Cs complaint and concluded it should be upheld.  She said 
that ELI were only entitled to apply  the exclusion if Ms Cs dog had shown aggressive 
behaviour before the policy was in place. As this wasnt  the case ELI arent now entitled to 
do this.  ELI  dont agree.  Theyve made  the following points:
The lifetime element of the policy refers to vets fees only and not to public liability cover.
Ms C is on notice  of her dogs aggressive behaviour. Should it occur again and another  
animal be injured,  shed need  to disclose the earlier incident which will be taken as 
conclusion evidence  of her negligence to take appropriate steps to prevent  this from 
happening and/or  a breach of her statutory duty. Removal of the exclusion would open 
them up to public  liability claims without  a defence.
Its unreasonable to expect them  to remove the exclusion given Ms Cs dogs history of 
aggressive behaviour.
The reference to the exclusion of re-occurrence of a condition  within  their terms is 
generic. Its accepted  that Ms Cs dogs behaviour is not a condition but the exclusion is 
intended to apply to the public liability cover.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I currently think Ms Cs 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute  that the behaviour referred to by ELI wasnt exhibited before the policy was 
in place. When reaching my conclusion  Ive taken this into account  and thought  about the 
exclusion ELI have applied in the context of the type of policy they were  offering. In particular 
I can see the policy was purchased as Lifetime Gold insurance  in 2017. As our investigator 
Ref: DRN42614742said, lifetime policies  arent subject to the same policy  exclusions as policies that cover  
conditions for 12 months only.  With the latter, conditions treated in the preceding 12 months 
are usually excluded  and thats  something  we generally think is reasonable, provided that an 
insurer has applied these  fairly.
But with a lifetime  policy,  a policyholder usually buys cover at a higher premium than a policy 
that limits cover  to 12 months in the knowledge  that theyll be covered for any and all 
conditions that arise during the policy period, provided that they continue to renew that 
policy.
In this case, ELI have sought to exclude the public liability element of the policy in relation to 
any and all claims arising out of Ms Cs pets aggressive behaviour. So I agree that its not a 
condition that theyre  seeking to exclude. But that doesnt mean that the exclusion  has been 
applied fairly. When  considering this, Ive taken into account the type of cover Ms C wouldve 
reasonably thought she was getting  when she bought  the insurance and what the policy  
terms say about this. The documents Ms C received when she took out the cover  dont make 
it clear that the public liability element  could  be limited by way of an exclusion. The welcome  
letter is silent on this issue and simply refers  to the insurance as a Lifetime policy.  The 
policy schedule at page 5 of the welcome pack refers to vets fees as Lifetime  in isolation 
but there is no mention of the remaining elements  of cover being subject to limits in any way. 
And theres  nothing in the policy terms that allow for an exclusion of this nature to be applied  
by ELI. Because  of this, I dont think its fair for ELI to apply the exclusion in the way that 
they have.
That said,  I do take ELIs point that to do nothing  would  open them  up to claims they simply 
couldnt defend. Because  Ms Cs dog has been involved in one altercation with another dog 
in a public  place where the other dog was injured, I dont think its unfair for ELI to apply 
conditions to the policy from the point  Ms C became aware of the incident.  Conditions that 
could mitigate the risk of future incidents  happening might include ensuring the dog is kept 
on a lead at all times, or is muzzled  in a public place. We wouldnt think  thats unreasonable 
in the circumstances. Its of course up to Ms C if she wishes  to continue  to renew her policy  
with ELI if ELI does  decide to place any retrospective conditions on the insurance.
developments
I asked both parties to provide any other comments or information they wanted considered in 
response to my provisional  decision. Ms C has confirmed her acceptance to my provisional  
decision. ELI have  not. Theyve responded with a number of comments, which  Ive 
summarised below:
The policy makes clear that lifetime cover  only applies to vets fees and not the public  
liability cover. This is referenced in the covering letter  that was sent to Ms C, the policy 
schedule and on the statement of demands and needs. Its also clarified in the policy  
wording more generally and where lifetime cover is defined.
Theres no suggestion that lifetime cover  extends to the public  liability element of the 
policy.
Its not sufficient for ELI to place conditions on the policy to protect themselves from 
claims they couldnt defend. Current legislation makes it an offence  for dangerous dogs 
to be dangerously  out of control  on private as well as public property. That means any 
conditions applicable  to Ms Cs dog would  need  to be in place when the dog is at home, 
which ELI accepts would be too restrictive for Ms C and her dog. Because of this the 
only practical solution open to them is to apply the exclusion  in the way that they have.
Ref: DRN42614743my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
Ms Cs complaint should be upheld.
Ive considered what ELI have said about  the policy terms and accompanying literature that 
was sent to Ms C and reviewed them all in detail. But I dont  agree  that those documents  
made clear that the public liability cover could  be limited by way of an exclusion. If they did, I 
wouldve been more  inclined to accept ELIs position. Because  of this I dont think  its fair for 
ELI to apply it now. 
Ive also thought about what  ELI has said about the conditions Ive suggested  they might 
want to consider going forward. I agree  that any conditions theyd be looking to impose 
would need to be reasonable in the circumstances - so overly  onerous or restrictive 
conditions are unlikely  to be something wed view as fair. Ive also taken on board what ELI 
have said about  changes in legislation. Based on what Ms C has said about the altercation 
her dog was involved  in and the dogs history, Im not entirely  sure it would be considered to 
be a dangerous  dog in law. But thats not the issue Im deciding here. My remit is to 
consider whether the exclusion ELI have applied is reasonable. For the reasons set out 
above, I dont  think it was so ELI should remove it. If there  are issues over any conditions 
that ELI includes in the policy to mitigate the risk to it (or the price it charges to reflect that 
risk) thats something which would need  to form part of a fresh  complaint  if Ms C has 
concerns about  this. 
my final decision
I uphold Ms Cs complaint  against  The Equine  and Livestock Insurance  Company Limited  
and direct them to remove the exclusion theyve placed on her pet insurance policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4261474