K821x#15Complaint
Mrs K has complained that Valour Finance Limited,  trading  as Savvy.co.uk, is holding her 
liable for a loan she didnt  take out.
Background
Mrs K is unhappy that Savvy is asking her to repay a loan,  which she said she didnt apply 
for. The loan application  was made online using her personal details such as her name, 
address and date of birth. 
Savvy paid the loan advance into  an account that was  provided in the application form and 
it sent her a direct debit  mandate to complete. It was at this point  that Mrs K found out about 
the loan. Her husband called Savvy immediately to report the fraud.
Mr K asked Savvy to cancel the loan agreement.  He pointed  out that the account details in 
the direct  debit mandate were  not Mrs Ks bank  details. The loan advance was not paid into 
her bank account. Also, the phone  number and email address provided  in the application 
were not hers.
Savvy wouldnt cancel the loan agreement.  It said it had received the following verification 
documents in support of the application:
a photo of the account statement into which the loan advance was paid, showing her 
name and address
a copy of her industry membership card 
account statements  showing  payments from DWP
a copy of her passport
a copy of her birth certificate
a copy of her wage slip for income  verification.
It also asked Mrs K to prove  the account wasnt  hers with a statement or letter from the bank.
Mrs K explained that a few weeks before the loan was taken out, shed been to a job 
interview. She said she was asked  to provide the above documents. She believes thats 
when someone  got hold of her personal  details and used them to get the loan. 
However, as she couldnt prove the account  wasnt hers, Savvys decision remained the same.
Mrs K was dissatisfied with this outcome  so she brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into her complaint and decided to uphold it because:
the phone number and email address on the application were  not hers
the loan advance was not paid into Mrs Ks bank account
the direct  debit mandate was set up for an account which  she didnt have
Mrs K had given a reasonable explanation for how a third party could have got her 
details and she had provided evidence of the interview.
He recommended that Savvy write off the loan and remove any negative  information, which 
it had recorded  against Mrs Ks name  on her credit  file.
Savvy has not responded to the investigators view and so this case has now come  to me for 
an ombudsmans final decision.
Ref: DRN41754672My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint and for broadly the same  reasons  as those given by the investigator.
Unusually for this type of case, Savvy has sent us considerable number  of identity 
documents, which support the loan application.  However, as Mrs K has demonstrated, there  
was a golden  opportunity  for a third party to get hold of this information. 
The loan application was made  online on 25 August 2018. 
Mrs K said she attended a job interview on 2 August 2018. She has sent us a screenshot  of 
the email confirming the interview details. I can see she was asked to take her passport, 
birth certificate or driving licence, two documents proving her address and her national  
insurance number  or pay slip. Im satisfied Mrs K attended the interview and provided these 
documents.
Now, it could be a coincidence and the two events might be unrelated.  It could still be that 
Mrs K applied for the loan but I dont  think so. Thats because of the discrepancies in the 
evidence, which Savvy has provided. 
The phone and email  address given  in the application dont match those,  which we hold on 
file for Mrs K. I accept  a person might have more than one number or email address  but I 
dont think thats  the situation here.  And thats  because of other inconsistencies with the 
evidence.
The loan advance  was paid into an account  with business A. The direct debit mandate 
included the details for the account with A.
However, A has confirmed that the accountholder is not Mrs K and that she doesnt have an 
account with it.
Savvy has provided  evidence of payments into this account from an employer, B, from April 
2018 to August 2018. However,  Mrs K didnt start her employment with B until 10 August 
2018. Besides,  we now know that Mrs K didnt  have an account with A.
Savvy also called the third party because of a discrepancy in the wage slip that was 
provided. It is dated August yet has tax period 3  which is June. The months  dont match 
and suggests  to me that the wage slip was forged.
Savvy also provided  a letter,  which  appeared to confirm that Mrs K received universal credit.  
The letter said she was caring for one adult.  And the account statement shows  the 
payments.
We now know that Mrs K has no connection  with that account.  But I mention the universal 
credit because Mrs K confirmed she receives  Universal Credit.  However,  it was for a 
different amount and it was paid into her account,  which is with another  bank. Mrs Ks 
application for universal  credit also states  that neither she nor her husband have any health 
conditions. So she wasnt a carer.
Ref: DRN41754673Lastly, Ive listened to the calls made  by the person who applied for the loan and by Mrs K. 
Whilst I am not a voice expert, I dont think they are the same person. 
All the evidence leads  me to conclude  that someone else completed the application.
In conclusion, I dont  consider  Mrs K applied for the loan. Therefore, it isnt fair for Savvy  to 
ask her to repay it. I will now be instructing Savvy to put things right.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint.  Im asking Valour Finance Limited 
trading as Savvy.co.uk to
stop pursuing Mrs K for the loan, which she didnt apply for
remove any data about this loan from Mrs Ks credit record.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4175467