K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with their property insurer  The National Farmers Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited  (NFU) in relation  to a claim  they made (which NFU later split into 
two) following flooding  occurring at their home.
background
In 2012 Mr and Mrs C found water coming into their home. They  notified NFU. In 2015 NFU 
responded to a complaint  from Mr and Mrs C in relation  to the way the claim was being 
handled. A final response was issued in December 2015 and NFU changed the loss 
adjusting company that was handling  the claim.
NFUs contractor completed work to reinstate the drainage at the property in January 2016.
In an email in February 2016 Mr C asked the adjuster about a number  of points. One issue  
was the planting that had been removed to facilitate the drainage work and the costs that 
Mr and Mrs C had incurred in completing  the removal. NFU felt it hadnt been necessary  to 
remove all the planting  or incur all the associated costs that went  along  with that work. NFU 
said it would  review everything once Mr and Mrs C submitted all their costs.
Mr and Mrs C provided a summary of their costs in a letter  to NFU dated  
10 November 2016. At that time they said they were looking for just over £243,000. In 
July 2017 NFU paid a total of £45,000  to settle  the claim. Mr and Mrs C were unhappy. 
They took this as an interim payment  and obtained  a report which they felt showed the work 
they had carried  out (and incurred costs for) was reasonable. NFU considered this report  
and agreed to pay a further £40,000.
In June 2018, NFU issued  a final response  to Mr and Mrs C accepting there had been 
delays following receipt of their report. It offered £400 compensation. Mr and Mrs C 
remained unhappy and made a further  response to NFU and it then paid a further £40,000.  
This sum included reimbursement of the cost of Mr and Mrs Cs expert report and an 
additional payment for replacing  some  of the planting.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to this service. They acknowledged the £125,000  that NFU had 
paid to date but said their reasonable  costs (including the expert report) totalled
£193,936.65, plus interest. The difference outstanding being  £68,936.65.  
Mr and Mrs C believed £31,370.00 of that sum was due in respect of certain planting 
(separate to issues  around some  individual plants at the front of the property).  NFU had 
paid £67,000 for that to this point  but Mr and Mrs C felt the total due was just over £98,000. 
The remainder of money they felt NFU owed was made up of smaller amounts for a number 
of different  things.
During our investigation a further report from NFU was sent to Mr and Mrs C regarding the 
planting subject of the disputed £31,370.  Mr and Mrs C then accepted  that NFUs 
settlement for that, of £67,000, had been fair and reasonable.  That left the parties in dispute 
for the remaining items totalling £38,140.80, plus interest. Mr and Mrs C also wanted 
additional compensation as they felt £400  was insufficient. They detailed how their health 
had failed over the years  and how demoralising and stressful  it had been  dealing with this 
for six years.
Ref: DRN48939652Our investigator ultimately  did feel that NFU should pay the remaining £38,140.80,  plus 
interest. But, having explained  that we could only look at matters from December 2015 
onwards, she felt NFU had mostly  moved  things on adequately since then. Therefore,  she 
felt the £400 compensation offered was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs C accepted  our investigators  findings.  NFU did not. NFU objected  to paying  
anything more on this claim  believing its payments to date were  more than reasonable. It 
said that if any further money was awarded it would  object  to interest being applied to date 
as well because this service had been dealing  with the complaint for quite  some  time.
The complaint was placed in the queue for a decision  to be made. NFU then submitted a 
further report  this in response to a report Mr and Mrs C had provided and our investigator  
had relied upon in issuing  her view.
The complaint was passed  to me and I issued a provisional decision, followed  by some 
further findings regarding the lawn, drive and shed. My provisional and further  findings  have 
been amalgamated and set out below. The parties have responded. Ive set out their 
concerns and my responses below as well. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I said provisionally
our limit
I am only able to make  awards up to the value  of £150,000. Any previous payment made by 
the insurer  is taken into account as part of any award I make. Here NFU has paid £125,000 
and the figure in dispute is £38,140.80. That makes a total claim value of £163,140.80.
I cant make  an award against  NFU in that sum.
I can though, if I feel it is fair and reasonable to do so, award £150,000 (a further £25,000  in 
this case),  plus interest and recommend that NFU pays £13,140.80,  plus interest. NFU 
wont be bound to follow any recommendation I may make though, even if Mr and Mrs C 
accept my final decision within the deadline  set. If they accept my final decision (should I 
make it in this respect) and NFU chooses  not to honour the recommendation, they may not 
be able to go to court with a view to claiming the outstanding amount. Mr and Mrs C may 
wish to seek legal advice  in this respect.
Mr and Mrs C said that due to delays and poor claim handling certain amounts shouldnt 
count towards the limit. They  feel it is unfair  that, in their eyes, they are further penalised by 
the restrictive limit, which they are aware has recently been  increased.
Whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs C, and understand their concern, I cant  ignore the limit 
that is set out in the rules  which govern this service. The rules dont provide any allowance  
for amending the limit or making choices about  what elements of a complaint count towards  
it. My provisional comments havent changed.
I continued provisionally to comment on VAT and interest, before looking at the individually 
disputed items:
Ref: DRN48939653VAT and interest
I do think NFU should make some payments. Ive explained what below. Unless  stated 
otherwise all sums include VAT. Ive noted  NFUs  objection  regarding  interest but this 
service does routinely  award it, even where  our complaint process has taken longer than 
wed like. For any sums  that Mr and Mrs C have paid, and they can or have  provided  
invoices for, interest* will have to be added to the individual amounts  incurred  from the date 
they were paid until settlement is made.  If any sums  havent been incurred yet, then NFU 
will only have  to pay the sum less VAT, and no interest will have to be added. Then once 
Mr and Mrs C incur the cost by getting work  done  or replacing an item, they can send the 
invoice to NFU and it will have to pay the VAT to them.
items in dispute
The sum of £38,140.80 is made  up of several items. Ive looked  at each below to see if I 
think NFU should pay the related sum claimed by Mr and Mrs C, or any part of it.
vegetation at the front of the house  specifically a Pampas grass  and a shrub called 
Daphne Odora. Ive seen  photos of these, of the works in progress  and considered 
drainage reports  provided by NFUs contractor. Im satisfied they had to be removed for the 
drainage works to be undertaken.  The total for the two is £2,598. NFU should pay for them.
NFU said whilst the drains in that area needed  repair, the original plan was for them to be 
re-lined, it never gave authorisation for them to be replaced, and its bill from the drainage 
contractor never changed. It said it doesnt think it is worth reverting to the contractor now 
for comment, but nor does it think it should  have to pay for the related extra costs for work  it 
didnt agree to. 
I understand NFUs point.  But I see excavation works were  carried  out at the property and 
NFUs loss adjuster  previously agreed  to pay for shrubs at the front of the house to be 
replaced. Ive seen no good  reason why NFU should pay for the other shrubs but not these 
two. Im not minded to change  my provisional decision in this respect.  I remain  of the view 
NFU should  pay for both plants, total £2,598.
My provisional findings continued:
fencing  Mr and Mrs C asked for £3,363.60  for a replacement fence, or as a compromise  
for NFU to pay £1,412.71 towards  that cost. NFU said the fence was positioned beyond the 
point where the pipe was damaged so the fence  hadnt needed removal.  It wasnt  
persuaded to make  any payment in this respect  so feels  it isnt liable for replacing the fence.
I see that NFU agreed that 85m of the land drain needed replacing. Its diagrams on its 
report seem  to show the length  going just past the house, perhaps as far as the garage. 
The fence in question  is beyond that. But no-one has shown me a scale plan of the work 
that was undertaken. Mr and Mrs C suggest  that the pipe was damaged along its whole 
length, and that if it wasnt,  it would have  to have been replaced anyway because you cant  
patch a new pipe into an old one. As I understand it the old pipe was concrete and the new 
was plastic, and if that is the case  I think,  regardless of the fact of damage, Mr and Mrs C 
may be correct. But I also think it is unlikely that the drainage pipe as a whole wasnt  
damaged.
Ref: DRN48939654NFUs contractor said the drain  was so bad and riddled with tree root ingress  its cameras  
couldnt see anything. The photos of the site show mature trees  up and down the length  of 
the drain line, Im not persuaded one section of the same drain  would be in good condition  
whilst the remainder was in such a poor state. Unless  NFU can convince me that the length 
in question was likely  in a good  state of repair and that it could  be joined to a new drain, 
such as to create a lasting  effective repair, Ill likely  find it has to pay for the fence  that had 
to be replaced to facilitate  replacing  this part of the drain run. The fence replacement  cost is
£3,363.60, I think  NFU should  pay it.
NFU said it wasnt  sure where this fencing  was meant to have been either. It said it had 
never seen  a photo showing  it and it felt a 30 meter stretch of fencing would have been 
obvious in pre-work photos. NFU also said it did pay for some  temporary  fencing  to be 
added to the hedge line to provide an additional barrier  whilst the hedge  matured, and 
whilst it was aware there was a suggestion  that there had been a fence at the far end of the 
property, this was well beyond the drain  repair area.
Whilst NFU seems unsure  now about whether a fence existed or not, its loss adjuster  
previously seemed satisfied that there  was a fence. But, as with NFUs last comment  here, 
the adjuster said it was situated beyond the section of drain that was agreed to be and/or 
was replaced. And I gave  my answer  on that point provisionally. So nothing NFU has said 
in response gives  me cause to change or move away from my provisional findings.
My provisional findings continued:
shed  Mr and Mrs C say this suffered when a tree stump  and roots nearby were removed 
to replace the drain. NFU suggested chemicals could have done the job but I tend to agree  
with Mr and Mrs C on this  that chemicals would have taken a long time to achieve a 
result. NFU also said that grinding the stump away  rather  than pulling out the stump and 
roots wholesale  would have prevented the shed being damaged.  
Essentially, whilst everyone  accepts the ground below the stumps and roots  needed 
accessing for a drainage pipe to be re-laid, the debate had become one about whether 
Mr and Mrs Cs action of removing the stumps and root ball wholesale (which had caused 
damage to the shed) was the only reasonable possible course  of action for them  to  have 
taken. NFU obtained an expert opinion from an arboricultural consultant  and Mr and Mrs C 
provided expert advice they had received from a tree surgeon. Each opinion was issued in 
favour of the party that had commissioned it.
Im not persuaded that either report holds any more weight or is any more persuasive than 
the other.  Nor do I think  that NFUs expert is more  qualified in this instance than 
Mr and Mrs Cs (meaning its report should be given greater evidential weight) (as NFU has 
suggested). Rather I think both reports are limited to one extent or another. For example, 
Mr and Mrs Cs expert does limit his consideration to what tools  he has access to, rather 
than taking into account other equipment that is generally available (eg, a larger grinder). 
Meanwhile NFUs expert qualifies that his findings are based on what is generally possible. 
Consequently Im not persuaded that I can fairly or reasonably rely on either one of them  as 
being conclusive evidence as to what was most likely  required  at Mr and Mrs Cs property 
when the tree stumps and root ball near the shed were removed.
So with the expert findings being equally balanced,  I have to look to the wider detail of the 
circumstances and other evidence available to decide what NFU is fairly and reasonably 
Ref: DRN48939655liable for in the circumstances.
Having done so I note that there  were a number of trees removed in a similar way to the 
two near the shed. I note that grinding  stumps takes time and isnt as quick  a solution as 
using a digger to take everything out. I can understand why grinding all of the tree out at 
the property wasnt a practical solution. But I also think that where a tree exists in close 
proximity to a building,  the consequences of removing the stump and roots wholesale have 
to be factored into a decision on whether swapping a digger for a grinder is the 
reasonable thing  to do.
I also note that the drainage company, which required access  below the stumps  and root 
ball, didnt say that only wholesale removal would give it sufficient access. Rather it said:
Whilst installing any drains of this nature by open  trench, vegetation, roots etc are to be 
removed, which is cheapest and quickest by excavator and not carried  out with expensive 
and slow stump grinding equipment.
So I think  it would have  been possible for access to the pipe to have been gained, without 
the wholesale removal of the tree stumps and root ball. As I understand it the removal of 
the root ball meant a void was left under or near to the shed and the structure  became 
unstable. From what Ive seen here,  grinding the stump would have  given access to the 
roots beneath which then could have  been subjected to a targeted removal sufficient to 
create an open trench for the drain  contractor to complete its work. I think  its likely, if that 
had happened it would have meant no void was created and the shed wouldnt have 
become unstable.
I know Mr and Mrs C were completing this work themselves and they might argue they 
couldnt reasonably have  foreseen that structural damage might  occur to the shed. But Im 
mindful that there were many large  trees being removed and Mr and Mrs C had seen the 
effect on the ground that taking those other trees out had. I think their on-going experience 
at their property should reasonably have given them cause to stop and think about  how the 
shed structure  might  be affected by the wholesale removal of the nearby tree stumps and 
roots. They could then have  taken  further  expert advice at that time and opted to remove  
these two trees by a different method ie grinding. It would have  taken longer but I think it 
would have been the reasonable course of action  in the circumstances.
I do understand that Mr and Mrs C were under (and are still under)  immense pressure as a 
result of this claim and damage but Im not persuaded that creates sufficient grounds  for me 
to say their actions in removing the two trees near the shed, without considering what 
damage that might do to the shed, were reasonable. As such I cant fairly say that NFU 
should have to pay for replacing the shed.
To be clear, my findings here are specific to the two trees near the shed. I dont think  its 
reasonable to say every tree should or could have been ground out sufficient to provide 
access to replace the whole drain  run. In saying that I note that NFUs expert in a previous 
report accepts that it would have taken much  longer to do that and would likely have 
necessitated the public road outside  the property being closed.
Ref: DRN48939656NFU said the timescale for using chemicals  was irrelevant  this was, in its view,  a viable 
option. However, it said it otherwise agreed with what Id said.  Mr and Mrs C said they 
understood my findings  but asked that I consider that using  grinding  equipment  here 
would have caused them to incur extra costs.  So whilst the shed may have been saved 
(and they said that wasnt certain),  theyd have incurred other costs instead.  
Im unsure  why NFU would view the timescale  for chemicals  to be irrelevant. There was 
clearly a need for the drainage to be replaced  and Im not persuaded it would be 
reasonable to say Mr and Mrs C should have waited whilst allowing chemicals to act and rot 
the stumps or act on the roots so access could be gained to the ground  beneath,  where the 
pipe needed  to be removed and replaced.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Cs response  to my findings on the shed. I realise if things had 
been different  they may have incurred other costs  but that doesnt mean I can, therefore, 
make NFU liable for the cost of replacing the shed. I can see that working around the shed, 
if it hadnt collapsed  and, therefore, been removed, would have been more difficult  but I 
think there was plenty of room on the property to allow for that. Im not persuaded that 
grinding just these two stumps  would have  necessitated the road being  closed  the grinder 
could likely  have worked from either  side of the stumps  but on the land between  the shed  
and the road. Im not persuaded its likely the  shed would  have  collapsed  anyway  even if 
the stumps and roots had been removed as Ive suggested. The root system  was 
significant; it clearly took up a lot of space below  ground and with the soil in between  the 
roots, the system was a strong, stable structure.  Leaving part of it in the ground would have 
helped keep the shed stable whilst the trench  was dug and then backfilled after the pipe 
was removed and re-laid. Having carefully  considered Mr and Mrs Cs points in response  
on this subject, Im not minded to change  my view that NFU isnt responsible for the cost of 
replacing the shed.
My provisional findings continued:
lawn  What is clear to me from the file is that a significant amount  of ground work was 
carried out at the property  and clearly lots of heavy machinery was used. NFU says that 
Mr and Mrs C, who did most of the clearance  work,  could have used different machines or 
carried out work more  carefully. But Im not persuaded  that is a reasonable argument. 
It seems  NFU, as part of its previous claim payments, has paid £12,000 for re-seeding a 
500 square meter  area. It thinks that is fair and reasonable  and that the rest of the land 
shouldnt have been damaged as a result  of the incident and work  to repair the drains.  It 
has provided a photo  to illustrate what area it thinks that would cover and which it accepts  
was reasonably damaged due to the incident/claim repairs.
Mr and Mrs C have carried out some  work  to reinstate the grass at the property, costing a 
total of £13,277.28. They  say its had limited success. Theyve asked for a further  £12,000 
to cover previous  costs  (above  £12,000)  and the cost of the further work.
I understand why NFU thinks  its initial offer was fair. But having reviewed the details of the 
drainage work undertaken at the property, particularly  the UKDN reports, Im not persuaded 
the area accepted and paid for represents  fair reinstatement of the property. In particular 
the UKDN reports show a lot of work was done  in the area in front of the house   and 
NFUs previous settlement doesnt allow  for any reinstatement of that area at all (not 
according to the photo provided). Roughly transposing the area which  NFU accepts was 
reasonably damaged across the front of the house suggests to me that NFU should 
Ref: DRN48939657reasonably be paying  a further £12,000  to Mr and Mrs C to ensure their garden is reinstated  
following the claim and works.
NFU said the drainage  work at the front of the house was restricted  to the left-hand  side (as 
you face the house), which is smaller  than the area it has paid for and most of that area (at 
the front) was planted, not laid to lawn.  Ive reviewed what NFU has said in this respect,  the 
photos and the drainage reports. There was lawn at the front which hasnt previously been 
accounted for by NFUs  settlement.  And I think given the positioning of works, along  with 
the movement  of equipment and people, more lawn was damaged at the front of the house  
than just any in the left-hand  area NFU has indicated it may be liable for. I remain  of my 
view, as provisionally stated, that NFU should  pay a further £12,000 to Mr and Mrs C to 
ensure their garden  is reinstated following the claim and works.
My provisional findings continued:
drive  NFU said it would contribute  £10,000 towards the cost Mr and Mrs C had asked for 
reinstating the drives  and paths. NFU felt little damage had likely been done and this sum 
would be sufficient. Based on an initial estimate,  Mr and Mrs C asked for £4,829.60 more. 
I can see that a lot of damage was done  at the property  and that even NFUs  own 
contractors were using heavy machinery and skips.  Im not persuaded NFU can reasonably 
limit its liability  for reinstatement. 
I noted some  reference to actual costs now incurred for reinstatement work. I asked to see 
evidence of that. This was provided  and shared  with NFU.  This showed a total cost for 
reinstating the drives  and paths was £15,544.60. Whilst I note NFU thinks  its payment  
which it says reflects an area close to the roadway  sufficiently covers the area that would 
reasonably have been damaged by the claim and repair works, I havent seen anything  that 
persuades me that is likely correct. Im minded to say it should pay the additional 
£5,544.60.
NFU said it remained satisfied that its offer of settlement fairly represented the area that 
would have been damaged by the work it was liable  for. I understand NFU believes this but 
I think there was clearly a lot of work going  on at the property, various trades  on site and 
various pieces of large machinery in use. NFU restating what  it believes to be the case  
doesnt add anything to the arguments Ive already considered. I remain of the view that 
NFU should  fairly and reasonably pay the additional £5,544.60 for the drive and path works.
My provisional findings continued:
labour and equipment  This is regarding removal of trees. Mr and Mrs C sent NFU 
invoices totalling  £22,195. Whilst they did most  of the work  themselves they incurred some  
labour costs as well as costs for equipment hire. NFU said it wasnt convinced all the trees 
needed removing   for example the tree that affected the shed. But further  that we also 
question whether clearance  costs include a greater area of garden  than necessary for the 
insured drain  repair alone. It said though that it recognised Mr and Mrs C hadnt charged 
for their time spent carrying out work, so it would pay them  £14,000 in total.
NFUs offer here hasnt been properly quantified So that means Im not satisfied its fair. But 
furthermore, the reasoning given for paying  less, as quoted above, isnt particularly  
persuasive. It certainly doesnt seem that NFU is clear the costs most  likely relate, at least  
in part, to uninsured work.  Im also mindful of what Ive found  already regarding trees 
Ref: DRN48939658needing to be removed (as opposed  to treated chemically or ground away) and the extent 
of the works necessary to properly repair the whole drain run. So as Im satisfied that more  
work was required than NFU has previously  accepted and it hasnt persuaded me that 
paying less was ever a reasonable  settlement  anyway, I think NFU should pay the 
difference outstanding; £8,195.
skips  NFU accepted  skips were needed  but said the quantity used would have been  less 
if tree roots  hadnt been removed. Ive found that tree roots did require removal.  Therefore, 
Im not persuaded NFU can fairly decline any part of the cost for skip hire. NFU had allowed
£1,000. Mr and Mrs Cs total costs were  £1,599.60.  Im satisfied NFU should pay the 
difference of £599.60.
NFU said it could seek to properly quantify  what it would have cost to clear  only the area 
above the pipe-line. It remained  of the view that if grinding equipment had been used, costs 
would have been reduced.
I understand that NFU thinks what it has paid is fair  but it hasnt shown me evidence  to 
support its view. And Im not persuaded, apart  from in respect  of the two trees  near the 
shed, that Mr and Mrs Cs actions  of removing the trees, stumps and root balls wholesale, 
was unfair  or unreasonable. Im mindful  of the situation they found  themselves in and the 
financial issues theyve described.  I dont think theyd have acted in such a way as to spend 
more money than needed to get the job done.  Im not persuaded that if they had swapped  
the digger for the grinder  for the two trees near the shed, that this would have appreciable 
decreased any overall costs they incurred. Not least as the trunks  would likely have been  
cut closer to the ground for removal (leaving less material to be ground  away) and the 
sections of root ball cut out for removal would still need to have been disposed of. Ive given 
this issue some careful thought but I remain satisfied that NFU hasnt persuaded me that its 
settlement was fair or that Mr and Mrs Cs costs as evidenced are unreasonable.
My provisional findings continued:
alarm  Mr and Mrs C had a security camera on a post on the fence/drainage-line.  It had to 
be removed for work to be done. NFU said it would pay to take out and replace the post as 
well as re-fix the camera which it felt could be done  for £1,000  (including VAT).
Mr and Mrs C said it wasnt as simple as that  to reinstate the camera  meant it had to be 
recoded and the electrical supply had to be reinstated.  They  asked for a total of £2,394  
(which was their quoted  amount for installing new cameras and sensors, less the cost of the 
new equipment).
It stands to reason,  I think, that if the camera and pole had to be removed,  the electric 
supply likely  had to be moved too. Whether it had to be disconnected or what  work was 
likely required to reinstate  it, is another matter  but NFU doesnt  seem to have ever looked 
at that. However,  nor have Mr and Mrs C shown that the electrical  supply needed 
reinstating, the way accounted  for in their estimate, in order for the original camera to be 
reinstalled.
What the estimate  actually says is that electrical  work is required to install the three new 
cameras and two new sensors. Nor have I seen any evidence  regarding recoding  of the old 
camera or what that would take,  or the cost. So Im not convinced that the costs
Mr and Mrs C have asked for in respect of this item are fair or reasonable. NFU hasnt  
provided a full breakdown to support its proffered  amount  but having regard to general 
costs for works and materials, £1,000  for taking out and reinstating  a pole and the original  
Ref: DRN48939659camera, and reconnecting this to the electrical  supply, as well as recoding  it into the 
system, doesnt seem an unreasonable amount. Based on what  Ive seen here, Im not 
going to say NFU should pay the disputed amount  of £1,394.
Neither party objected  to my finings  in this respect. Therefore, I remain  satisfied by my 
provisional findings and need  say no more on this topic.
I concluded my provisional findings by considering if NFU had failed Mr and Mrs C and, if it 
had, what compensation fairly and reasonably needed to be paid to them:
compensation
I appreciate that this situation has been  affecting Mr and Mrs C for a very long time. 
However, NFU issued a final response  to their concerns about  how the claim was being 
handled in 2015. Mr and Mrs C then didnt complain  to us until July 2018. According to the 
rules which govern this service we can only consider a complaint made  to us within 
six-months of a final response being  issued.  That is unless  the business  complained  about 
consents to letting us look at a complaint which has been  made  late or exceptional 
circumstances prevailed to prevent the complaint being made  earlier. NFU hasnt 
consented to us looking at the complaint from the outset and nothing  occurred that 
prevented Mr and Mrs C from making  their complaint before. Which all means that I can 
only look at how NFU handled the claim, and whether  this caused Mr and Mrs C any 
distress and inconvenience, from the point  of the 2015  final response onwards.
NFU acknowledged  in its 2018 final response  that there had been delays in the claim and 
that its initial settlement  offer had clearly  been  too low. It sent a cheque for £400 as 
compensation for the upset this had caused  Mr and Mrs C.
I see that NFUs first claim settlement amount of (just) £45,000 was made in July 2017. 
That was quite a long time after the first final response,  issued in December  2015,  and even 
after its contractor completed  its part of the initial drainage  works  in early 2016.  
I understand that even in early 2016  the parties were disputing  the cost of works. Whilst 
I dont think it was clear to NFU, at that time, what the reasonable extent of the works were, 
I cant see why it was reasonable  to delay making  any payment for as long as it did. I think  
it was clear that Mr and Mrs C were carrying out (and had carried  out) work themselves and 
that the cost of this was substantial. But I note they didnt  quantify or send proof of their 
costs (incurred and expected) until November 2016. I see that by mid-December  2016  NFU 
had accepted that at least  £40,000 was due in settlement of the claim. I cant  see that a 
seven-month delay  in making this payment (until  July 2017) was reasonable. An earlier  
payment, even at such a low amount, compared  to what  was actually due, would have 
made things  somewhat easier for Mr and Mrs C.
But I do acknowledge that this was a complex  claim with many aspects that had to be 
considered. For example,  at one stage there was a question  about whether the drainage  
was within  Mr and Mrs Cs property boundary. Theres also been a lot of dispute about what 
needed doing, for example how the tree roots/stumps needed to be dealt with as discussed  
above. There was also some debate about reinstating the hedge  the cost element of this 
point was resolved  between  the parties but the disputed costs were  significant and the topic 
required various expert in-put. In short the parties  met in the middle on this aspect. So I 
think its fair to say that the arguments from both about what  was due had some element of 
reasonableness. So the debate; the time it took and the stress and delay it caused, were 
unavoidable.
Ref: DRN489396510In my view, NFU could  have made  an interim payment earlier  and its failure to do so did 
cause some upset. But the fact of it being  too low was, I think,  a natural result of the 
extensive and complex  claim at the heart of the matter. And Mr and Mrs C always  had a 
duty to support the claim for costs they were making. The natural result of which  was 
negotiations and revised settlements being made  following further evidence being received. 
And, in that respect, I think NFU responded adequately  there wasnt any instance I saw of 
it ignoring new evidence  or refusing to take anything into account.  On balance I dont think  it 
would be fair to make it pay more  than the £400 offered in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs C between December 2015  and June  2018  (the 
period between NFUs two final responses).
Mr and Mrs C said having things go on for so long had a huge impact on their finances and 
all this combined had made them physically and mentally ill. It also affected relations with 
their village neighbours and their premiums increased. In 2016,  2018 and 2019 theyd had 
to re-mortgage  their home, with charges against  their property now exceeding what  it was 
purchased for in 2010. They did so much  work  themselves  which NFU refused to pay for 
and then, they say, whilst in 2016  it did some work and it began making settlements in 
2017, were here now in 2020 with the ombudsman saying it still hasnt paid enough.  The 
complexity of the claim, Mr and Mrs C say, doesnt account for all of that. 
Mr and Mrs C also explained how unhappy they were with one expert utilised by NFU which  
Ill refer to as H. They say it was biased  and had no knowledge  of the area, that NFUs 
insistence on using  the expert prolonged matters exponentially. They  explain that the report 
influenced NFUs initial  low settlement and this meant they werent able to progress with 
works that summer (2017). As a result, during winter 2017, an injury  occurred which  
required surgery. Mr and Mrs C believe  all of this could  have  been  avoided if NFU had 
chosen a better expert. In general they feel that NFU has constantly handled things badly, 
they said:
By the NFU not moving payment forward, and by constantly trying to not honour what we 
feel we were entitled to, by coming up with arguments that are illogical, not underpinned by 
expertise, we have  had to live through years of misery, waiting and waiting; and in the end 
we re-mortgaged  and got a second mortgage.
Mr and Mrs C make reference  to some guidance produced by the Association of British  
Insurers (ABI). This guide looks at the average length of time a policyholder might expect 
repairs to their home to take after flooding. It says most  claims are completed within a year.  
So NFU, Mr and Mrs C said, cant be said to have dealt with this quickly since  2015  as even 
since then its been going on far longer than the average stated  by the ABI.
They sent letters from their doctors to confirm the effect all this has had on their health. 
They explained every  day is a struggle and they are shells of their former selves.  Overall 
they asked that I reconsider  my compensation award.
I do understand how all of this has affected  Mr and Mrs C. But I have to bear in mind that 
even prior to the period  I am considering here, the consequences of the initial  damage  
which occurred at the property had been  on-going for a long time. That cant  fail to have  
impacted on how Mr and Mrs C have felt in the years since,  and they themselves accept it 
is the long-standing  element of the claim that has been  so difficult to bear.
Ref: DRN489396511I also bear in mind,  as mentioned provisionally, that whilst NFU carried  out some work  in 
early 2016  and a debate then arose about  what NFU fairly owed for work Mr and Mrs C had 
done and needed to do to complete  the reinstatement of their home, it was late 2016 when 
evidence of costs  were provided  to NFU. I understand undertaking the work of compiling 
the claim was difficult and time consuming, and Im not criticising  Mr and Mrs C for taking 
time (although I am still critical of the time NFU took after that before making an initial 
payment). But their delay  at this time did impact the progression  of the claim. I cant  blame 
NFU entirely then for claim payments being delayed.
Im sorry  to hear of the fall and injury which occurred in winter  2017/2018. I cant  reasonably  
blame NFU for this though. Some monies had been given, although nowhere near all of 
what it fairly owed. I dont think it could reasonably have foreseen that its limited settlement 
would result in work not being done or that if the work wasnt done  this would likely result in 
an injury. Nor can I be satisfied that, if more money  had been given at this time, that 
sufficient work would have been done  during summer and autumn 2017 to have avoided  
the injury occurring in the winter of that year. 
Similarly I cant be satisfied, even on balance,  that a more substantial  initial  payment would 
have prevented the need for re-mortgaging. In 2016  NFU was still waiting for the evidence 
regarding costs. In 2018 further payments had been  made, and in 2019  all but a small 
portion of what NFU owed  (related to my findings here)  had been  paid. Im also mindful that 
Mr and Mrs C have done lots of work at the property  which they needed to do to prevent  
future damage from occurring but which wasnt covered by the claim. So I cant  be satisfied  
that it was work NFU was liable for covering the cost of, but which  Mr and Mrs C had 
fronted prior to settlement  being received, which had caused  the need  for re-mortgaging, at 
any time.
I havent said that NFU dealt with the claim quickly after 2015.  And whilst I note the ABI 
guidance this does talk about  what happens on average.  I have to consider what  
happened here for Mr and Mrs C and whether  having taken  everything  into account, NFU 
acted in a timely manner.  I think that by and large it did. It got some issues wrong and that 
meant further settlements had to be paid.  But, in that respect,  I think  it assessed evidence  
as it was received  and responded  appropriately  to challenges that Mr and Mrs C made.
I know Mr and Mrs C think NFU was wrong to have used H, and that its responses werent 
valid. But just because  the outcome changed  when Mr and Mrs C challenged the position 
NFU had taken, based on Hs advice, doesnt  mean NFU was wrong to have relied on that 
initially.
Premiums do increase  over time,  and sometimes as a result  of work being  carried  out that 
improves the value  of a home and/or adds to what it will cost to reinstate a property should  
it need completely  rebuilding. I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr and Mrs C to be faced 
with increases whilst  their claim was on-going with insufficient settlements having been 
paid. But, in general terms, because I havent  considered a specific complaint about  the 
actual increases that occurred, NFU wasnt doing anything  wrong.  Assuming NFU was 
applying increases that meant Mr and Mrs C were being charged as were  other  
policyholders with similar risk profiles,  that is a matter for its commercial judgement and not 
something well interfere  with. 
Ive seen the evidence provided  by the doctors.  Im sorry to hear Mr and Mrs C are suffering 
so. But as I said above, I cant be satisfied that their suffering related to NFUs action post 
its 2015 final response. I dont doubt  its handling that I criticised it for provisionally  did 
Ref: DRN489396512impact Mr and Mrs C, but having reviewed everything and taken into account 
Mr and Mrs Cs further arguments, I remain of the view that £400 is fair and reasonable 
compensation. Im not going to recommend that NFU pays  anything  more. 
overall settlement   So, having reviewed everything following my provisional decision, 
I think NFU should make  some  further payments to Mr and Mrs C. Mr and Mrs C have 
asked for a total additional payment of £38,140.80. Ive said Im not minded to make NFU 
pay more for the alarm or anything for the shed. I also remain  of the view that NFUs 
compensation already paid is fair and reasonable, so Ive not been  persuaded to say it 
should pay any more.  I think NFU, in line with my comments  above, subject to what  Ive 
said about VAT, interest, and our award  limit, should, in total, pay Mr and Mrs C a further  
£32,300.80.
However, as this is more  than £25,000  (the maximum I can award here, explained above) 
I cant make  an award for this whole sum. But I can award £25,000, inclusive of VAT but 
plus interest* (both  where applicable as explained above) and recommend that NFU pays  
the remaining  £7,300.80, inclusive of VAT but plus interest*  (both  where applicable as 
explained above). 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against The National Farmers  Union Mutual  Insurance Society  
Limited. 
my award
I require NFU Mutual Insurance Society  Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs C £25,000 for the items 
set out above  (namely;  vegetation,  fencing, lawn, drive, labour and equipment  and skips), 
including VAT and plus interest* where  appropriate  (see my notes  regarding  these above).
my recommendation
I recommend that NFU Mutual  Insurance Society  Limited pays Mr and Mrs C £7,300.80, 
being the amount I think it should pay for the items set out above (namely; vegetation, 
fencing, lawn, drive, labour and equipment and skips), over and above the amount I can 
award for them, including  VAT and plus interest* where appropriate (see my notes 
regarding these above).
If Mr and Mrs C accept my final decision,  within the deadline set, NFU Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited will be bound to pay my award.  It will not be bound to follow my 
recommendation. If Mr and Mrs C accept my decision, and NFU Mutual  Insurance  
Society Limited doesnt follow  my recommendation, it is unlikely that Mr and Mrs C will 
be able to pursue  it in this respect  in the courts. They  may wish to take legal advice 
before making  any decision  about  what to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest, where it is appropriate to apply it (see above),  is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified 
and from/to the dates stated.  If NFU Mutual Insurance Society Limited  considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs 
Ref: DRN489396513to take off income  tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs C, it should tell them how much its taken off. It should  also give 
Mr and Mrs C a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN4893965