K821x#15complaint
Mrs N complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case in January 2019  explaining  why I intended  to 
uphold this complaint.  A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms part of my 
final decision.
I asked both Mrs N and BoS to provide me with any further comments and evidence they 
would like me to consider  before I reached my final decision. BoS responded by saying they 
were prepared to make  an offer in line with our guidelines. Mrs N hasnt  provided  anything 
further for me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ns case.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  for me to consider and BoS are prepared 
to make an in line offer,  I see no reason to depart from the findings as set out in my 
provisional decision. 
It follows that I uphold  Mrs Ns complaint for the reasons  set out in my provisional decision.
fair compensation
BoS should put Mrs N in the financial position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.BoS should find out how much  Mrs N would owe on her credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
BoS should then refund the difference between what Mrs N owes  and what she would 
have owed.
If Mrs N made a successful claim under the PPI policy, BoS can take off what  she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when BoS works out what Mrs N would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs N 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, BoS should also pay simple  interest  on the 
extra Mrs N paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs N 
Ref: DRN44624732wouldve owed BoS something on her credit  card. The interest rate should  be 15% a 
year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
C.BoS should tell Mrs N what its done to work  out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires BoS to take off tax from this interest. BoS must  give   
Mrs N a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
I know that BoS made an offer to refund some of the commission they received for Mrs Ns 
PPI premiums. If this has already been paid to Mrs N, BoS can take off what  she got for the 
commission from the amount it owes her.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ns complaint against  Bank of Scotland plc and require them to pay Mrs N the 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44624733copy of my provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs N complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a monthly  premium  payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs N applied for a credit  card in 2003. She was sold the PPI policy at the same time in connection 
with this card during a meeting.
The PPI was meant to cover 10% of Mrs Ns monthly outstanding balance  for up to 12 months if she 
was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ns complaint  should be upheld. Mrs N didnt agree  with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ns case.
Having done that, I intend to uphold Mrs Ns complaint. I will now explain why.
BoS advised Mrs N to take PPI. This means they had to take adequate steps to ensure  the PPI was 
suitable for Mrs N. I dont think they did this. They also had to provide  Mrs N with clear, fair and non-
misleading information  about  the policy, in particular about its costs, benefits  and main exclusions. I 
dont think they did this either.
At the time of taking out the PPI, Mrs N has told BoS and us that she suffered from a pre-existing 
medical condition. I appreciate that Mrs N didnt  mention this in her questionnaires,  but from the 
conversation she had with BoS and the details  she has provided us with, I dont doubt that she did 
suffer from this condition.
The policy excluded claims resulting from pre-existing medical conditions.  Although Mrs N has told 
us that she hadnt needed  to take time off for this condition,  given the nature of the condition  she 
suffered from and the numerous complications  that it could have caused, I think that if Mrs N would 
have been made aware at the time of the sale that she wouldnt have been able to claim  for anything  
resulting from this condition then she wouldnt have taken the policy  out.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that this was discussed with Mrs N as it should have been at 
the time of the sale.  And I dont  think the PPI was suitable for Mrs N because the policy  wouldnt have 
been of good value for money  in her circumstances because of this medical condition.  
So I think BoS mis-sold  Mrs N this PPI policy and they should  compensate Mrs N as set out below.
proposed fair compensation
BoS should  put Mrs N in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken  out PPI. The policy  
should be cancelled  if it hasnt been  cancelled already and:
D.BoS should find out how much  Mrs N would owe on her credit card if the policy  hadnt been 
added to it.
Ref: DRN44624734So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges.
BoS should  then refund  the difference between what Mrs N owes and what she would have owed.
If Mrs N made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, BoS can take off what  she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her.
E.If  when BoS works out what Mrs N would  have owed each month without PPI  Mrs N paid 
more than enough  to clear her balance, BoS should  also pay simple interest on the extra  Mrs N 
paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when  Mrs N wouldve owed BoS 
something on her credit  card. The interest rate should be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a 
year from then on.
F.BoS should tell Mrs N what its done to work  out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  BoS to take off tax from this interest.  BoS must give   Mrs N a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
I know that BoS made an offer to refund some of the commission they received  for Mrs Ns PPI 
premiums. If this has already  been paid to Mrs N, BoS can take off what she got for the commission 
from the amount  it owes her.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  Mrs Ns complaint against  Bank of Scotland  plc and require  them  to pay Mrs N the 
compensation as set out above.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4462473