K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the wording in the suitability report provided by Lloyds Bank PLC. 
In short,  he feels its wording/phraseology is ageist  and contrary to equality  legislation. 
background
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Overall, hes unable  to say that Lloyds treated Mr H unfairly.  
Lloyds acted  in line with the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) guidelines and its 
internal policy.
The term Elderly isnt defined by the FCA and its for the business to interpret in its 
own way.
Its not unreasonable  for Lloyds  to have a benchmark  for determining who is elderly. 
He doesnt think the wording of the suitability report  is unfair  or unreasonable.  Hes 
relied on the following information:
oIn 2015, the FCA published an Occasional  Paper  No. 8  part of a series of 
papers  entitled  Customer  Vulnerability, which says: A vulnerable  consumer is 
someone who,  due to their personal circumstances, is especially susceptible  to 
detriment, particularly,  when a firm is not acting with appropriate  levels of care.  
oIt gave examples  of risk factors for vulnerability  which include being older for 
example over 80, although this is not absolute.
oThe FCAs Principles  for business  6 & 7 state A firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly and A firm must pay due regard to 
the information needs of its clients, and communicate  information  to them  in a way 
which is clear, fair and not misleading.  
oLloyds policy concerning vulnerability  states:  you must use your judgement  to 
find out if the customers vulnerabilities  re physical,  emotional or mental  reasons.
Whether or not the wording was in breach of the Equalities Act or the Mental Capacity  
Act would ultimately be for a Judge  to decide.   
In light of the FCA rules, Lloyds was right to interpret  Mr Hs concerns as a written 
expression of dissatisfaction and therefore  treat his issue  as a complaint. 
Mr H doesnt agree with the investigators  conclusion. 
Im aware that since then theres been  much correspondence in which  Mr H has raised a 
number of objections.  In short, he strongly feels that Lloyds wording is ageist and contrary to 
equality legislation.  He remains unhappy  with the investigators view and feels that perhaps 
the investigator is condoning Lloydss ageist policy.   
Ref: DRN42535152As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this compliant.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  the Mr H says,  Im unable  to 
conclude that Lloyds has done anything  wrong by including the following  passage in the 
suitability report:
Based on your present  circumstances,  I recommend you have a friend  or relative present 
during our meetings. This is to help ensure any questions and relevant issues  are discussed 
fully with you. (my emphasis). 
You are reluctant to involve family members or friends because you are happy dealing  with 
your own finances and dont want to involve  anyone else.  Therefore, you have declined this 
option at the time.   
In my opinion, Im not persuaded that this wording amounts to ageism  on the part of Lloyds. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Hs strength of feeling about this matter. Its clearly upset him and hes 
taken a great deal of time and effort to respond. 
Mr H has provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  Im aware that hes raised a number of issues, however, I hope he 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues,  and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  or determine points of law, its not what Im required to do in order to reach 
a decision in this case. My role is to consider the evidence  presented  by Mr H and Lloyds, 
and reach  what I think is an independent,  fair and reasonable decision based on the facts  of 
the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal,  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened.   
I appreciate Mr H is very upset by the phraseology, and Im very sorry that he feels  that way, 
but I dont think  Lloyds intended to cause him any upset or concern by including  the relevant  
sentence in the suitability  report, which is generally a recap  of the advice and 
recommendations given by the adviser.   
Ref: DRN42535153In other  words, I dont  think the adviser was wrong  to include this phrase as it reflects and 
recaps what went on during the meeting, and Im unaware of Mr H raising any issue with the 
adviser about the recommendation  at the time other than simply declining it.  
Given the advisers role I dont think he was wrong  to recommend that Mr H have a friend or 
relative present  during the meeting because Lloyds as a financial business is obliged to 
make recommendations that it feels might assist  its customers. Its likely the adviser had 
taken into account  Mr Hs circumstances  of which age was probably a factor  in making  
the recommendation. It doesnt mean the adviser thought there  was anything wrong with Mr 
H or that he was incapable of making  his own decisions.
Thats why he was given  the choice to decide through nothing  more than a 
recommendation which he was free to accept or decline, without any compulsion to agree  
to have somebody else present. In other words, it was entirely his decision whether he 
wanted someone else there and he chose not to because  he didnt want  to involve family 
members or friends because he was happy dealing  with his own finances.  I dont think giving 
him such a choice means Lloyds has discriminated against him.
I realise that no matter  what I say it wont make any difference to how Mr H feels. But I still 
think Lloyds was simply flagging up an option that he might  find useful if he chose to go with 
it, without any compulsion to do so. If it felt that Mr H was perhaps incapable of making 
decisions  whether by virtue of age or any other  factor   it wouldnt have simply made  a 
recommendation for someone else to be present. Instead it wouldve probably declined  to 
advise him without a third-party present.  
As an ombudsman, Ive dealt with a number of cases where consumers  who shouldve been  
given the choice to have  someone else with them werent and it has subsequently come to 
light that they wouldve benefited from having a family member or friend present in a meeting 
as an extra pair of eyes and ears. In some of those cases  the business  ended up paying  
back a large sum of money with interest. So in a sense, the recommendation provides 
protection to the business just as much as its potentially  useful to the consumer. 
It isnt a reflection  of Mr H and the recommendation in my opinion doesnt equate to 
babysitting as suggested by him. The scenario here is completely different and no one has 
said that Mr H was incapable of making his own decisions.   
I appreciate Mr H says that the wording is contrary to the Equalities Act and Mental Capacity  
Act, but hes not said which  section of either Act it contravenes. On balance,  Im unable  to 
say that the specific  wording of the sentence breaches the Equalities Act or the Mental 
Capacity Act.  
In the circumstances Im unable to ask Lloyds to change  its policy  or wording because  I dont  
think it has done anything  wrong. 
Im mindful of Mr Hs other points regarding the findings of a professor who described the UK 
as completely and institutionally  ageist,  or the cost implication ageism has had on the 
fashion industry. But thats not evidence that Lloyds did anything wrong and I dont  think it is 
relevant to my consideration of the complaint against Lloyds.  
I also appreciate his point that Ethical Veganism is now a protected characteristic like 
ageism and sexism.  But that too doesnt mean  Lloyds has done anything  wrong in the 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN42535154Im mindful of his recent point about the Lloyds  website  which  he suggests demonstrates 
that it caters for every generation, but it doesnt  cater for after preparing for retirement . 
Whilst Mr H is entitled  to his own opinion and interpretation, I dont agree with his conclusion. 
Ive seen nowhere on the Lloyds website that says its services dont cater  for customers  
after retirement and I dont think thats  the message it wants to give out. 
I appreciate Mr H will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached  the same  conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate  his 
frustration, Im not going to ask Lloyds to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what  
he wants.
Mr H is of course free to return to the FCA, having  been referred  to us to pursue his 
challenge of ageism.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4253515