K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly increased  
her credit card limit.
background
Ms M says she was in a cycle of debt and in financial difficulties  but Barclaycard increased  
her credit card limit. She says that decision was irresponsible and that the lending was 
unaffordable. Ms M would  like Barclaycard to agree a repayment plan and remove adverse  
information from her credit file. Ms M also says she didnt receive details of the credit limit 
increases.
Barclaycard says it refunded interest  and late payment charges as a gesture of goodwill.  But 
it says it carried out appropriate  checks when increasing the credit limits in 2015  and 2016.  It 
also says there wasnt any adverse information recorded on Ms Ms credit  file at the time of 
the increases  and that she told it she was earning  in excess  of £20,000 a year. Barclaycard 
says Ms M had managed her account satisfactorily prior to the increases and sent details of 
the increases  via online banking.
Ms M brought her complaint to us and our adjudicator didnt uphold it. The adjudicator  
thought Barclaycard had assessed the credit limit increases and at the time there wasnt  
anything to suggest Ms M was in financial difficulties. The adjudicator  thought Ms M had 
made regular account payments and hadnt exceeded her credit  limit. The adjudicator 
accepted Ms M used  short  term lending at the time but that lending had been settled. The 
adjudicator thought Ms M had opted for paperless  communication and that Barclaycard  had 
sent her information  about the increases.
Ms M doesnt accept  that view and has asked that it be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  Ms M will be disappointed  by my decision.
Ive looked through Barclaycards records and Im satisfied that at the time of the two credit 
card increases in 2015 and 2016 it carried out appropriate checks. I can see that at that time 
Ms M was managing her account appropriately by making regular payments and by not 
exceeding her credit  limit. I have also looked at Ms Ms credit file and I dont think  there was 
any adverse information  recorded on the credit  file at that time. So I dont think  that decision 
to increase the credit limit was irresponsible or that the lending was unaffordable. I also think  
that Ms M had the option of rejecting the offer to increase  her credit limit.
I appreciate that Ms M was using  short  term borrowing at the time of the increases and in 
later years. I dont think its clear  how much weight Barclaycards credit  checks would have 
placed on those  loans. But I think the important  point is that Im satisfied that Barclaycard did 
carry out appropriate checks at the relevant time.  And I can also see that those loans were 
settled appropriately  by Ms M.
I appreciate Ms M says she didnt receive  letters from Barclaycard about  the credit  limit 
increases. But I think  it likely  those  letters were available for Ms M to view when using online 
banking and I think she had opted  for communication in that way. I can also see from the 
Ref: DRN45677182credit card statements that information  about the credit limit was clearly  recorded on them 
and that Ms M is likely to have known about the increases as she used the new limits.
Overall Im satisfied that Barclaycard did not lend irresponsibly and so I cant fairly order it to 
act as Ms M would like. Banks  and building societies should treat customers in financial 
difficulties positively and sympathetically. Im satisfied  Barclaycard has acted in such a way 
here. I can see that it agreed  to refund interest and charges as a gesture  of goodwill and has 
fairly provided information about its specialist team that may be able to assist Ms M.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4567718