K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the actions of DAS Legal Expenses Insurance  Company 
Limited in relation to their claim made under a legal expenses insurance  policy.   
Whilst the policy is in joint names, Mrs G has done all the correspondence in relation to this 
complaint, so for ease of reading Ill mostly  only refer to her. 
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview here. 
Mrs G had insurance against certain  legal expenses which was provided by DAS. Mrs G 
withdrew her son from a private  school as she didnt think  they were meeting his needs.  The 
school later pursued her for payment of fees that they said were outstanding.
In April 2018 Mrs G contacted DAS for assistance and to make a claim. One of DAS panel  
solicitors D was appointed for Mrs G in May 2018.  
By August 2018 a barrister had confirmed that there  were reasonable prospects of success  
for Mrs G to defend the claim against her, but not for her to pursue a counterclaim. In 
October 2018 D advised DAS that a defence  and counterclaim had been submitted to the 
court. D acknowledged that DAS had declined to fund a counterclaim, but explained that 
Mrs G had agreed to fund the counterclaim  herself.  They also explained  that issuing a 
counterclaim now meant that the matter would be considered under the multi-track process 
as it was no longer  a small  claim. 
D asked DAS to consider  funding a further counsels  opinion  as Mrs G felt there was new 
information which increased the prospects of the counterclaim. DAS declined this request, 
but explained that if Mrs G sought an opinion herself and it was positive, they would consider 
the cost of obtaining that opinion. They also confirmed that as the decision to issue a 
counterclaim had moved the matter  to multi-track,  that Mrs G would be liable for any adverse 
costs. 
In December 2018 D again contacted DAS. They explained that their relationship with Mrs G 
had broken down  as she wasnt  minded to accept that she would be liable for adverse costs.  
They also explained that withdrawing the counterclaim  may be possible,  but they were 
unable to do so without Mrs Gs instructions  which they didnt have. 
DAS wrote to Mrs G in January 2019  and explained that the counterclaim was a private 
arrangement between her and D which  wasnt covered  by her policy.  They  also warned her 
of the potential cost implications for her  and that she should discuss this with D. But they 
confirmed that at that time they would continue to fund the defence element of the claim. 
It was later agreed that Mrs Gs file would be passed  to a new panel solicitor D2. And 
following further contact  from Mrs G, DAS agreed to fund a further barristers  opinion of both 
the claim and counterclaim. 
On 22 January 2019 DAS wrote to Mrs G to explain  that counsel was considering  her claim. 
They reminded her that only the defence element of her claim was being covered, but if 
counsel agreed the counterclaim  had reasonable prospects of success  they would consider 
Ref: DRN43922982this too. They also reminded her she remained liable for adverse costs  and reminded her of 
her obligations  under the policy. They asked that she refrained from sending  further lengthy 
emails unless D2 asked for further  information.
Mrs G asked DAS to appoint her own solicitor and in February 2019 they responded. DAS 
explained that a barrister  in conjunction  with D2 was reviewing  the prospects of success  of 
the claim.  And that if this was positive  then they would agree to appoint  her own solicitor 
under the policy.  
On 12 February 2019 there was a hearing  during which the other side attempted to have 
Mrs Gs counterclaim  and defence struck  out. This was unsuccessful,  but the court  ordered  
that Mrs G pay around £3,000 in adverse costs. D2 asked if DAS would consider these 
costs. DAS declined,  they explained  that it was Mrs Gs earlier decision that had taken  this 
out of the small  claims court (where adverse costs wouldnt  be awarded). So they didnt 
agree they should meet  these costs. But DAS said if counsel  found there were prospects for 
the counterclaim, they would reconsider this. 
On 3 March 2019 the updated counsels opinion was received. This confirmed that the 
defence had reasonable prospects of success,  but that the counterclaim didnt. 
On 19 March 2019 D2 informed DAS that even if Mrs G self-funded her claim neither they 
nor counsel  were prepared to represent her. D2 said that following counsels opinion  theyd 
asked Mrs G for her instructions but she hadnt  responded, which  meant it was too late to 
prepare for an upcoming hearing. But that she had sent in a ten page  document  disputing 
counsels opinion. 
On 21 March 2019 D2 told DAS that Mrs G had been in touch with counsel, who at her 
request had removed  the counterclaim from the defence and that this had been sent to 
Mrs G. But that Mrs G hadnt responded other  than to advise that shed appointed her own 
solicitor and counsel. Mrs G says she only appointed her own representation to protect her 
position when  D2 refused to act for her. 
On 22 March 2019 DAS reviewed everything and took the decision to withdraw  any further 
cover under the policy. This was shared  with Mrs G the same day and they explained it was 
due to her failing to keep  to the terms of her policy.
On 26 April 2019 DAS wrote to Mrs G and offered to pay her £5,115 as a gesture  of 
goodwill. That being  the initial amount (prior to interest) that the school  were  pursuing her 
for. 
I understand that in October 2019 Mrs Gs defence  was struck out at court  and that 
significant costs  were awarded to the other side. 
Mrs G referred  the matter to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. She 
pointed out that much  of Mrs Gs dissatisfaction was with the legal professionals  involved, 
something DAS arent responsible for. And overall,  she didnt think DAS had treated her 
unfairly, so she didnt recommend that they needed to do more. 
Mrs G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She also requested 
that our service hold a hearing. Ive already  written  to Mrs G to explain why I didnt feel a 
hearing was necessary to fairly decide  this complaint. And I provided the option that she 
Ref: DRN43922983could verbally present  her evidence if she wished to do so by speaking  to one of our 
investigators. So I can now go ahead with my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it and 
for essentially the same reasons as our investigator. I know  this is an incredibly important 
issue to Mrs G, whose health  has been  impacted by dealing with all this. So Id like to 
explain why.
Mrs G has made considerable submissions  to our service. Ive read and considered  
everything that shes sent in, but I dont  intend  to respond in similar detail. So if I dont 
mention a particular  point  or piece of evidence, it isnt because  I havent seen it or thought 
about it  its just because I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. I hope 
Mrs G wont take this as a discourtesy; it is just a reflection of the informal nature  of our 
service. 
DAS are the underwriter of Mrs Gs legal  expenses insurance but they arent legal experts 
themselves. So I think  its fair and reasonable for them to rely on suitably qualified legal 
advice when making decisions about a claim (unless that advice  is obviously  incorrect). They  
also arent responsible  for the actions  of legal professionals,  even  those appointed under  the 
policy. 
So I wont  be commenting on the actions of D, D2, or any of the barristers  involved. They will 
all have their own complaints procedures and regulator / ombudsman service. And even if 
DAS were at the time funding the legal work, the solicitors were  working  on behalf of Mrs G 
as their client. The funding arrangement  doesnt make DAS responsible  for the quality of the 
legal advice or for the service  provided  by legal  professionals.  
funding the counterclaim
Mrs Gs policy says We will pay an appointed  representative on your behalf, costs  and 
expenses for the insured incidents  in this section as long asReasonable Prospects exist 
for the duration  of the claim.
Reasonable Prospects  is given  a specific definition within the policy as the prospects 
that you will recover losses or damages  make a successful defencemust  be at least  
51%...
Terms like this are present  in nearly all legal expenses insurance  policies  and I dont think  
this term is inherently unfair.  Litigation  can be expenses and most people  wouldnt generally 
continue a case when  advised they arent  likely to win. So I dont think  an insurer should 
have to either. 
Numerous legal opinions  have been  sought  in relation to Mrs Gs counterclaim but none of 
them have confirmed  that prospects of success were greater than 51%. And whilst I 
understand Mrs G says this was verbally  confirmed by counsel, Im more persuaded by the 
written opinions that Ive seen. So, I dont  think it was unreasonable for DAS to decline to 
fund the counterclaim  under the policy, as the condition  relating to the prospects of success  
was never  met. 
Ref: DRN43922984DAS offers  to reconsider further legal opinions (if Mrs G paid for them) is in line with what Id 
expect them to do. And in fact they funded  a further  opinion in light of new evidence that 
Mrs G wanted to be considered. I dont  think this was unfair. 
Payment of adverse  costs
Mrs G has argued  that DAS should  meet  some  of the adverse costs. DAS have said that the 
claim would have remained within the small claims courts (where adverse costs  arent  
usually awarded) were  it not for Mrs Gs decision to issue a counterclaim. So on this basis;  
they dont think  they are liable for any of the adverse costs. 
I understand Mrs G has questioned how clear  D were with her as to the implications  of 
issuing a counterclaim. But whatever happened  between D and Mrs G, this isnt something 
DAS are responsible  for. And generally  a solicitor  wouldnt issue  a counterclaim without 
instructions from their client. As Ive explained,  I cant  comment  on the actions  of D. 
But Im satisfied that the counterclaim was issued without agreement to cover that part of the 
claim by DAS. And the consequence of that decision is that adverse costs  became a 
possibility. So I dont  think it would  be fair to ask DAS to consider these, or a proportion  of 
them. DAS had only accepted the defence  of the claim  against  Mrs G; were  it not for the 
counterclaim, they wouldnt have had exposure to the risk of any adverse costs being  
awarded. 
Withdrawal of funding
Mrs Gs policy says:
You must co-operate fully with us and the appointed representative. 
If the appointed  representative refuses to continue acting for you with good 
reasonthe cover  we provide  will end immediately...
You must keep to the terms and conditions of this policy  and take reasonable steps 
to avoid incurring  unnecessary costs.
Again I dont think these  terms  are unfair.  Its reasonable for an insurer to insist on the co-
operation of their policyholder in relation to a claim.  I also think its reasonable for DAS to 
rely on the information provided to them from solicitors in relation to Mrs Gs co-operation  
with them.  
Mrs G issued a counterclaim against the advice of D and counsel. As Ive discussed already 
this took the legal action  outside of the small claims court.  Mrs G also wasnt prepared  to 
accept what D said in that she would be liable for adverse costs. 
Both D and D2 refused to continue to represent  Mrs G. The reasons they gave to DAS for 
this included failing to accept what theyd advised  in relation to adverse  costs, failing to 
provide instructions or respond to them and writing  to the other side to complain about  their 
conduct, which contributed to the relationship breakdown. 
So Ive considered all of this and overall, I dont think DAS  decision to withdraw cover was 
unreasonable in the circumstances or outside the terms of the policy.  
Offering a cash settlement
Ref: DRN43922985Within a few weeks  of cover being  removed DAS offered Mrs G over £5,000  in full and final 
settlement as a gesture of goodwill.  That being the amount that Mrs G was initially being 
pursued for by the school. There is a relevant part of Mrs Gs policy  which says:
We may decide to pay you the reasonable value of your claim, instead of starting  or 
continuing legal action Given I think DAS acted  fairly when withdrawing any further  cover, 
I think making this offer was fair too. And as their letter  pointed  out, Mrs G had the choice of 
using this money either towards settlement of her dispute, or to fund further legal  action. So 
overall I dont think she has been  treated unfairly here. If she hasnt yet taken  DAS up on 
their offer, this is something Mrs G should  discuss with them directly. And for clarity, whilst 
the claim was active DAS also covered costs to defend the action against Mrs G (in line with 
the policy terms). So I dont think it would be fair to expect them  to increase the amount they 
offered under the above policy  term. 
Summary
Whilst Mrs G may have  some valid complaints about the legal professionals  involved in her 
claim, as I explained at the start, that isnt something I make any comment or findings  on. Im 
limited to considering  the actions of DAS and their agents. And in doing so, overall, I dont  
think theyve treated Mrs G unfairly. So Im not going to tell them  to do any more to resolve  
this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 May 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4392298