K822xcomplaint
Mr T, represented by a claims management  company (CMC), complains about the 
unsuitability of investment  advice provided by Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS).
background 
At the time of the advice in June 2007  Mr T was aged 62, semi-retired with some  pension 
income, owned his own home and had no liabilities  or dependants. The fact find completed 
by the adviser  recorded that he had around  £125,000 on deposit and £7,000 invested in 
PEPs and £3,000 directly in shares.
To meet his objective of improving his regular income Mr T was advised  to commit £60,000 
to a Personal Investment Plan,  investing in the Managed Income  fund. He surrendered  the 
investment soon after in January 2009.
In 2018, Mr Ts CMC  complained on his behalf  to BoS saying, in brief, that given his semi-
retired status it hadnt been suitable to put him in the position  of committing around half his 
assets to a risk-based environment.
BoS agreed and upheld  the complaint, offering Mr T compensation  based on him having 
only invested £45,000, rather than £60,000,  with the remaining £15,000 achieved a return  
based on fixed-rate  bond rates. 
Mr Ts CMC didnt  accept this. It felt Mr T should  be compensated on the basis that he 
shouldnt have been advised to invest at all. So, it referred the complaint  to this service.  
Our adjudicator felt the documentation produced  at the time of the sale indicated that Mr T 
was happy to invest and take some risk. And this was supported  by the categorisation of his 
attitude to risk as cautious/medium. But the adjudicator  didnt think  he wouldve wanted  the 
level of risk associated with putting around half his money in a fund that in turn invested 
around 50% in equities. 
The adjudicator therefore thought that BoS proposed redress, which effectively weighed the 
investment as a whole back towards a more  cautious approach, was a fair response   a 
view later endorsed by an investigator.
The CMC didnt agree, so the matters been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties  appear  agreed on the fact that it wasnt suitable to advise Mr T to invest around 
half his money into the Managed Income fund. So, what Im left to decide is what constitutes  
a fair and reasonable way of putting  that error  right.
BoS solution is to compensate  Mr T on the basis that he simply invested less, but into the 
same fund. Mr Ts CMC argues that he shouldnt  have invested at all.  
Ref: DRN44368162I dont think theres really any question that Mr T was in a position to invest to some extent. 
He had a large  sum on deposit  (I note theres  some dispute about  exactly  how much,  but 
certainly around the £100,000 mark)  and he had invested before. Given his circumstances, it 
seems entirely reasonable that he wouldve wanted  some of his money  to potentially earn 
more than deposit returns in order to create an additional income stream. So I dont think  the 
CMCs suggestion represents a fair way of putting  Mr T back in the position  hed have been 
in with more suitable advice. 
What BoS has offered,  in my view,  is a reasonable way of addressing the issue  of Mr T 
having been advised to take too much risk with his money. Given  the composition  of the 
Managed Income  fund,  it means  in very broad terms  that less than a fifth of Mr Ts 
available money  would  be reliant  upon  equity performance. Thats  not a position I see as 
unreasonable when I consider his general circumstances and investment experience. 
Had the complaint  come  to me without an offer of compensation I may have given  some  
consideration to suggesting that BoS compare the performance of Mr Ts £60,0000 with our 
cautious benchmark of 50% fixed-rate bonds  and 50% a multi-asset  index. 
But given the composition of the Managed Income fund and that of the index, I think  the 
position created  by BoS suggestion is broadly similar and as such an acceptable 
compromise  ultimately a fair and reasonable means by which to compensate Mr T.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint as I consider the 
offer already  made  by Bank of Scotland  plc to be fair and reasonable.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4436816