K822xcomplaint
Miss A complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc closed her request for a replacement credit  card.
background 
Miss A has previously complained about HSBC. She says that HSBC  told her that shed 
have to wait until the outcome of that complaint before it would issue  a replacement credit  
card. 
In March 2018, an ombudsman issued a final decision about Miss As previous complaint. 
Miss A says that she subsequently contacted HSBS about a replacement credit card but it 
told her that it had closed  her earlier request.  She complained to the bank and in August 
2018, HSBC said it would  send Miss A a replacement credit card and paid her compensation 
of £200. Miss A didnt receive the replacement credit  card.  
Miss A says that this has been frustrating and stressful. She wants a replacement  credit 
card, compensation and an explanation from HSBC. 
Our adjudicator discovered that in August 2018,  HSBC sent a replacement credit  card to 
Miss As old address. He said that HSBC was willing to pay additional compensation of  
£100, cancel the card sent to the incorrect address and send  a replacement credit  card to 
Miss As current address. The adjudicator  thought  that was fair. 
Miss A didnt agree with the adjudicator. She said that her complaint is that HSBC closed her 
request for a replacement credit card instead of issuing it. Miss A said that the offer from 
HSBC wasnt proportionate to the stress  she was suffering. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, Miss As complaint was passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
In this decision, Im not looking again at matters that were  dealt with in the ombudsmans  
final decision  in March  2018. Im looking at Miss As complaint that HSBCs closed her 
request for a replacement credit card. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres clearly  been  confusion here. I accept that HSBC told Miss A that it had closed her 
earlier request for a replacement credit card. So, when Miss A asked HSBC for a 
replacement card, she had to make a new request. I dont think that, in itself,  was the root 
cause of the problem here. HSBC was willing to provide Miss A with a replacement credit  
card: it attempted to do just that. But it made the process unduly lengthy in that it didnt have 
her earlier request to hand. Also, HSBC sent a replacement card to an old address. So, 
there was further  delay  in Miss A getting  a replacement credit card. 
Ref: DRN49003512I dont doubt that this has been frustrating and annoying for Miss A. Shes  made other 
arrangements to make payments and had to contact HSBC  several  times.  Considering  
everything, I think that HSBCs offer to pay additional compensation of £100,  cancel the 
replacement credit card it sent to the wrong  address and send  Miss A a replacement credit  
card is fair. I dont require  it to do any more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss As complaint. I now require HSBC UK Bank  Plc to:
Pay Miss A compensation of £100  in addition to the compensation of £200 it paid in 
August 2018.
Cancel the replacement credit card it sent to the wrong address in August 2018 and 
issue a replacement card to Miss A, if it has not already done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4900351