K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS), trading as ALPHERA financial  services, has not been of 
satisfactory quality.
background
Mr B took receipt of a used Audi in May 2018.  He financed the deal through  a hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS. At the point of supply  the car was about seven years old and had 
already completed  about 94,000 miles.
Mr B reported a problem  to the dealership shortly after taking receipt of the car. He said it 
was stalling at times  and he wasnt  able to restart it. They checked the car and told him it 
would be okay for him to complete  a trip to mainland Europe.
But whilst abroad the problem reoccurred and Mr B was recovered to a local Audi 
dealership. They diagnosed a problem with the air intake that they said would require the 
engine to be stripped and a costly repair.
The car was therefore recovered to the supplying dealership in the UK at a cost of £800. But 
the supplying  dealership  could not replicate the fault. They said theyd ask an Audi garage to 
complete an exhaustive check.  An independent inspection was also authorised by BMWFS 
who Mr B complained to. The dealership refused to release the car to Mr B until hed paid 
the £800 recovery cost back to them.
The independent engineer could  not identify a fault despite starting  and stopping  the car on 
several occasions. So BMWFS didnt think there was evidence the car was faulty and they 
rejected Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator provided an opinion. He noted  
that the Audi dealership  abroad had identified a problem  and that Mr B had explained it was 
intermittent. He asked  for the exhaustive UK Audi report or for any job cards  from the UK 
dealership to show the work and investigation that had been completed.  But as these were  
not supplied, and as the fault appeared to be intermittent,  he was persuaded there was a 
fault with the car that was present  at the point  it was supplied to Mr B. 
He thought BMWFS had failed to repair the car and that they should now allow Mr B to reject 
it and to terminate  his finance agreement  with them. He said they should refund any finance 
instalments that had been paid since August 2018  as Mr B had clearly had no use of the car 
from that point.
BMWFS disagreed with the adjudicators view. They said the independent inspectors view 
was clear that there was no fault with the car. They could  not understand why the adjudicator 
had favoured  the initial Audi report over his and they asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN42735622I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint BMWFS so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the supplier  of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr B. The car here 
was around seven years old and had already completed about  94,000  miles so I think  a 
reasonable person would expect some  wear and tear, but I dont think  theyd expect the car 
not to start on occasions as that would render it useless.
Im persuaded that there was a problem with Mr Bs car when he was abroad. It makes  little 
sense to suggest he would have the car recovered to a dealership  if there wasnt  a fault. 
They were  an approved Audi dealership  so I think its likely they were equipped  to diagnose 
the fault. The fault was always  intermittent. It was clear that there were times Mr B was able 
to drive the car without issue so it was not unexpected that it would start when it was 
recovered back to the UK.
Ive not seen evidence of the exhaustive Audi UK test, the dealership said they were 
commissioning, or any job cards  to demonstrate the work theyd  done  on the car. Ive also 
not seen evidence that they contacted the foreign dealership who had identified a problem. It 
seemed feasible  and sensible  for them to do so and I think this would be reasonable in order  
to exclude the foreign dealerships concerns.
I also think it would have  been reasonable to release the car to Mr B when  they hadnt found  
fault. I can see Mr B asked them to do that so that there was time for the intermittent fault to 
show itself again  in his possession. I think that demonstrates the dealership havent done 
enough to identify the fault that was reported to them.
Ive read the independent inspectors report.  I can see that he was able to start and stop the 
car on many occasions but I cant see that his analysis was more  detailed than that. I think 
its likely  the car would be able to start and stop as Mr B confirmed the stalling was 
intermittent and the history supports that. I think its likely that the Audi dealership abroad 
were able to complete a more detailed analysis  than the independent inspector was. Ive 
read, for instance,  that they were able to reboot  the software to get the car working.
Ref: DRN42735623So, overall, I think there is evidence of a fault with this car and given that the fault was 
reported very soon  after Mr B took receipt of the vehicle, I think its most likely the fault was 
present when the car was supplied  to him.
In those circumstances, the relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity  to repair  
the fault. The car was recovered to them  in August 2018 and still hasnt been  repaired. I 
dont think thats  a reasonable timescale so I think the fairest  solution  would now be for 
BMWFS to allow Mr B to reject the car. 
They should  terminate his finance  agreement and as Mr B hasnt been able to drive  the car 
since it was recovered  to the UK, in August 2018, they should refund any instalments hes 
paid to his finance agreement from that point and add 8% simple interest to the refund as 
Mr B has been deprived of that money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
end the finance agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr B;
remove the agreement from Mr Bs credit file;
refund  all monthly finance instalments  that may have been made from and including  
August 2018.  Add 8% simple interest  to this refund from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4273562