K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has not paid all her losses from her claim under 
her buildings and contents policy. She also complains  about  the poor handling of her claim.
background
Miss Bs home suffered  an escape  of water  and she made a claim in December 2015. She 
had to leave home whilst strip out work, drying and reinstatement works  were completed. 
Miss B stayed in alternative accommodation  throughout  2016 arranged  via AXA, but said it 
wasn't suitable and another  property  was arranged. She hoped to be home by Christmas 
2016, but this was delayed until February  2017,  and she complained about the delay. 
Miss B has been in dispute with AXA over the full settlement of her claim, including  her 
contents and utility costs.  She said some of her contents had been  damaged by the removal  
and storage agents. Miss B said she had provided  AXA with everything  it has requested in 
respect of all losses claimed. AXA said Miss B hadnt provided all of the information  to 
support her claim, in particular for her utilities, tables, shelving units  and loss of water.
AXA said Miss B requested a cash settlement so she could use her own contractors, but 
they werent available until the latter part of 2016. And AXA arranged  contractors  for the rest 
of the work and this was completed whilst  waiting  for Miss Bs contractors to start. It said 
Miss B requested more suitable alternative  accommodation and this was arranged. 
AXA said although  Miss B said shes provided the bills for her claim, neither AXA nor its loss 
adjusters had any record and it couldnt validate  the claim for utilities,  or replacement costs  
for her contents. AXA apologised for delays it had caused and paid a further  £1,000 
compensation on top of £400 compensation it had already paid. 
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld  saying  he hadnt identified  any 
of Miss Bs items that AXA hadnt paid, or requested  information about. He provided a list of 
payments to all parts  of her claim and said it was fair for AXA to ask about the unproven 
parts of her claim and as she hadnt provided  this it was fair for AXA not to pay these losses.  
The investigator said he was pleased that AXA had acknowledged causing Miss B problems 
during the claim  and had offered her compensation totalling £1,400. He said £1,000  of this 
was offered following AXA's review in September 2018 and he felt this was fair. 
Miss B disagreed with the investigator. She said the problem with the delays was to do with 
AXA taking so long to give the go ahead  for the work and then sorting things out. She said 
she had sent AXA the information  it requested  about  all aspects of her claim. She said the 
compensation of £1,400 is a joke and she didnt  ask them  to pay it into her account. She 
requested an ombudsman review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely  at AXAs decisions and handling of Miss Bs claim to see if it has acted  
within the terms of her policy and to see if it has treated her fairly.
Ref: DRN47767262The onus is on a consumer making a claim to provide the evidence  needed for the insurer to 
see that it falls within  the terms of their policy. Insurers  are entitled to be satisfied that they 
arent paying for things not covered by the policy and AXAs policy  requires Miss B to 
provide full details  of her claim and describes the evidence that will be required.
I have seen that AXA has set out within a spreadsheet  to Miss B in September  2018 what 
each of its payments,  and those made  by its loss adjuster, were for and what information  it 
requires to settle each of the remaining losses she has claimed.  Im pleased  that AXA has 
paid for Miss Bs chest of drawers.
Miss B is frustrated  as she considers  that she has sent in the required information.  But she 
hasnt given AXA the information  it requires  to pay the parts  of her claim as set out on its 
spreadsheet, and I think this is described in a straightforward way. If Miss B still wants the 
items to be paid I think she should send AXA the information its requested.
It is an unfortunate fact of any claim where  serious damage has been suffered, such as in 
this case, that there will be significant inconvenience  to the policy  holder. This should  be 
minimised by an insurer and so we look to see if it has caused  avoidable distress and 
inconvenience in its handling of a claim.  I think Miss Bs claim would have taken several  
months to resolve in any event, but it's obvious  that it could've  been handled better at times 
and Im pleased AXA has apologised for its failings  and paid compensation.
It's clear there have been problems  throughout  Miss Bs claim, particularly with damage 
caused and items lost, and I sympathise with her for this. Ive considered the compensation 
AXA has paid, which totals £1,400,  and I think that this fairly  reflects the avoidable 
inconvenience and distress AXA has caused and is consistent with awards in similar 
circumstances that we have made. It follows that I dont think it would be fair to require AXA 
to pay Miss B more  compensation. 
If Miss B rejects  this final decision it will have no legal effect and she can pursue her 
complaint by other means  if she wishes.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4776726