K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) has voided  (cancelled) his
home insurance policy and declined his claim for water damage to his house.
background
The facts  of this case are well known to both parties  so I dont intend to repeat them in great
detail here.  In brief, Mr V suffered an escape of water at his home  in September  2017.
Significant damage was sustained. Mr V reported  the claim to RSA and it appointed a loss
adjuster to validate the claim. In April 2018,  RSA told Mr V that it didnt think his claim had
been honestly presented. It said it thought he was in breach  of the fraud  condition  on the
policy and that he hadnt presented the claim in good faith.
Mr V appointed a claims consultant (C) to help him. C complained to RSA on Mr Vs behalf.
It said that RSA had taken  too long to investigate the claim and that it had no evidence  Mr V
had exaggerated or acted  dishonestly  to try and claim for something he wasnt  entitled to.
RSA looked into Mr Vs complaint but didnt  change its mind. So C brought a complaint to 
this service on behalf of Mr V. Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended 
that it was upheld. She said thered  been an escape of water  and there was no evidence itd
happened deliberately nor was there  any evidence that Mr V had acted dishonestly. So she
recommended that RSA reconsider the claim in line with the policy terms and remove  any
record of voidance or allegation  of fraud.  She didnt think  that RSA had delayed  its
investigation of the claim.
Both parties  disagreed with our investigators findings so the complaint was passed to me to 
consider. I thought that this complaint wasnt one that could be fairly  upheld so I issued a 
provisional decision in November 2019. I made the following  provisional  findings: 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether RSA has treated Mr V fairly by declining  his claim by invoking the
fraud condition and voiding his policy. I think it has. Ill explain why.
RSA thinks the circumstances of the claim dont fit the factual evidence. It also thinks  the
circumstances dont  fit the inconsistencies  in Mr Vs account of what  happened and that,
consequently, the claim  has not been  honestly  presented. This has led it to invoke the
policys fraud condition  and to voiding the policy. That condition states, if dishonesty is
used .to obtain a claims payment under your policy or cover for which  you do not
qualifyAll benefits  under  this policy will be lost, the policy may be invalid
The policy covers Mr V for a number  of unforeseen events (or, perils) of which escape of
water is one. I agree that theres  been an escape of water and that damage has occurred.
But in order for the event  to be covered the loss must  be fortuitous  in other words that its
happened by chance rather than intention. The inconsistent account that Mr V has given
RSA has led it to conclude that he didnt present his claim honestly (as required by the fraud
condition) and caused  it to question whether the escape of water was fortuitous.
Ref: DRN48650852When the loss adjuster  asked Mr V where hed been  when the escape of water happened he
said hed been  in Spain  on holiday. And he gave the dates. He subsequently changed his
story and said hed been at his sisters  house for a week and he changed the dates. Its not
clear to me why Mr V did this. He was under  no pressure from RSA to give certain answers
to its questions. Mr V has since said he was in a state of shock  and panicked  and thought
that by saying he was abroad he would sound more  credible.
Mr V has also said he doesnt know what happened  when he left the property. He said the
constant questioning by RSA caused  him to speculate what  might have happened when in
reality he cant  remember  if he left the shower on full blast  with the plug in the waste  and
closed the en-suite door before he left his house. Initially  this is what  he told RSA had
happened but he subsequently  said that he couldnt be sure and that he wouldve heard the
shower if it had been on full blast. Mr V has said he has no reason to wilfully damage his
house.
But that doesnt explain why he said what he did at the start of the claim when all he was
being asked by the loss adjuster  was to provide an account of what happened.  No pressure
was applied. But Mr V has said an insured  event  has occurred and its his responsibility  to
show he has a valid claim under the policy.  I dont think, given his changing  story,  RSA
unreasonably questioned  the validity of the claim.  It gave him many opportunities to explain
what had happened  but ultimately it felt he had failed to present the claim honestly. I dont
think, given the circumstances,  that that was an unreasonable decision for it to reach.
I note that C has said that this service has a long established approach  when fraudulent acts
or omissions  make no difference to the insurers liability  under the terms of the policy.  It says
we say that, in those  circumstances,  the fraud should not entitle the insurer to void the policy
and reject the claim. Thats  true, but here Mr Vs inability to provide a consistent account  of
what happened has meant that RSA thinks it may not be liable under the policy  terms. In
other words, Mr Vs changing statements make a difference to RSAs  liability.  So I cant
agree with C that our long established approach  to genuine claims should be applied here. It
is Mr Vs responsibility to show he has a genuine claim under the policy  terms and he hasnt
been able to do so. The fact theres been  an escape of water  doesnt automatically mean an
insured event has occurred.
Even if I were to ignore the inconsistencies in Mr Vs account about  what happened/what
might have happened I cant reasonably ignore the evidence from the water company. This
service typically  considers that the first account  of what has happened is likely to be the
most accurate. And Mr V first told the loss adjuster that before he left to go on holiday he
was in his shower,  left it running full blast, got dressed and left the property in a rush to get
to the airport. As Ive said above, Mr V didnt go on holiday  and now says he cant remember
what happened before  he left his house  to go to his sisters.
Given Mr Vs changing account  of what happened,  RSA looked into whether the property
was occupied or not (I note that RSA withdrew any reliance  on the un-occupancy clause and
I make  no finding here on that). In the process  of doing so it contacted  Mr Vs water supplier
and obtained the water consumption at the property for the six month period during which
the escape of water  occurred. The total volume  of water that passed through the meter
(9,000 litres) for the entire six month  period was just 8% of the volume  that wouldve been
consumed if Mr Vs original account that the shower  had been left on full blast for a week
was correct.
RSA concluded  that this meant the shower  could only have been running for 9-10 hours full
Ref: DRN48650853blast and that Mr Vs version  of events that it had been running for almost  a week cant  have
been as he stated. And its worth noting  that RSAs conclusion is based on the assumption
that all the water that passed through the meter for the relevant billing period was consumed
by the escape of water and not by any other  day-to-day living.
So I dont  think,  for the reasons, Ive set out above, that RSA reached an unreasonable
decision to invoke the fraud clause. Unfortunately, the inconsistencies in Mr Vs account of
events, and the evidence from the water company, led RSA to conclude  that his claim hadnt
been honestly presented  as required by the policys fraud clause. I dont think  this was an
unfair conclusion  for it to have reached.
I note that C has also complained about  how RSA handled Mr Vs complaint. This service
has no power to look into a complaint about how a business has handled  a consumers
complaint so Im unable  to consider that further  here. And I think  that RSA didnt
unreasonably delay the investigations into Mr Vs claim. It had concerns about its legitimacy
and, not unreasonably,  wanted to investigate them. Thats not unfair.  Ive reviewed the
timeline of events and cant  see any period of avoidable delay in RSAs investigations.
RSA has provided no comment in response  to my provisional decision. Mr V and C have 
both commented  on my provisional  findings. The following points  have been  made:
Theres no evidence that the loss was anything other than fortuitous;
The burden of proof  for alleging fraud is a high one and the responsibility for doing  so 
rests with the insurer;
Theres confusion about the different principles applied by me in light of other 
decisions issued by my colleagues;
Clear evidence is needed to support an allegation of fraud  because  it is such  a 
serious matter;
For an insurer to decline a claim for fraud it must  show  beyond  reasonable doubt 
there was some  intentional dishonesty or deception  by the insured and that the 
dishonesty/deception was an attempt  by the insured to gain more than he was 
entitled to;
Parts of our published guidance  on fraud  were  quoted again;
That the policy provided cover for damage caused by an escape of water.  As RSA 
didnt dispute  thered  been an escape  of water C didnt understand the serious  
accusation Id made;
RSA had failed  to evidence any material breach of clauses a) to d) of the fraud 
condition;
Id said in my provisional  decision that both parties had disagreed  with our 
investigators findings which was untrue as Mr V agreed with them;
Mr V is upset  that Ive alleged that his loss wasnt genuine particularly without any 
evidence to support  such an allegation;
RSA reported  Mr V to his him employer; 
The Crown Prosecution Service is not proceeding with any criminal  action;
Its unfair that Mr Vs speculations about  what might have happened are being used 
against him. The shower may not have been left at full blast but it may have been left 
running slowly which caused the shower  tray to fill and overflow;
Mr V had nothing to gain financially (his property being  new) by deliberately 
damaging his property:
Mr V was traumatised by what had happened  to his house  and cant explain why he 
said at first hed been abroad when it happened. When being questioned by the loss 
Ref: DRN48650854adjuster he was trying to quantify and speculate  what had happened to cause so 
much damage rather than explain what had actually happened;
He wasnt sure the shower  had been left on at full blast. Hed assumed it mustve 
been because  his house was soaked. But he feels he wouldve heard it if had been 
going at full blast;
The amount  of water that was consumed  would still have  caused  substantial 
damage. Mr V says he doesnt  know how much water it would take to cause the 
amount of damage his house  sustained  because hes not an expert. But he was 
away for a week and it was a weeks worth of water that damaged his home;
Hes single and works shifts so has no regular pattern to his life. Sometimes he 
showers at work or the gym or at family homes when he stays  over;
It took Mr V a long time to get his home looking as nice as it was and it was properly 
furnished and upgraded so there is no reason  for him to deliberately destroy his 
home. The escape of water was a tragic accident  which  has impacted him deeply 
causing untold stress and trauma;
The case  was returned to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to say firstly that the copy policy terms sent to us by RSA were, unhelpfully, not the 
ones valid at the time the claim occurred. Consequently,  I quoted an out of date fraud  
condition in my provisional decision. In response  to my provisional decision C provided a 
copy of the revised  terms dated October  2016  (whereas RSA had sent us terms from 2013). 
I can see that the fraud condition has been  materially redrafted. Any reference to 
dishonesty has been removed and replaced with the words  false and fraudulent. I think  the 
effect of both terms is the same.  The part relevant to Mr Vs claim says:
If youc) Support a claim  by false or fraudulent documents, devices or statements 
(whether or not the claim itself if genuine)we may: (i) Refuse to pay the whole of the 
claimWe will also notify you if we will be treating  the policy as having terminated with effect 
from the date of the earliest of any acts set out above.
Both clauses  state that untrue (be they dishonest or false) statements may lead to a refusal 
to pay the claim and a termination of the policy. So Im satisfied that a consideration of the 
circumstances of Mr Vs claim against  either term would permit RSA to decline the claim and 
cancel the policy if an untrue  statement  is made. 
I note that Mr V and C say he accepted  our investigators view.  Unfortunately  Ive not seen 
any such acceptance. There  are two emails from C after our investigators view requesting  
an update and a request to refer the case to an ombudsman. I can also see that our 
investigator told RSA that her assessment hadnt  been accepted  by either  party so the 
complaint was being referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
I cant agree  that theres no evidence that the loss was anything  other  than fortuitous  
Mr Vs inconsistent  account of events  caused RSA to doubt whether the claim was 
fortuitous. Mr Vs account  equates  to evidence. In addition, the evidence from the water  
company caused  RSA to question whether the claim was fortuitous.
Ref: DRN48650855Im aware that the burden of proof  for alleging fraud is a high one and Im aware of this 
services published  guidance on the evidential hurdles that must  be overcome when fraud is 
alleged. As I explained in my provisional decision, I thought (for the reasons  I gave) that 
RSA had been able to demonstrate that Mr Vs inability to provide a consistent factual 
account of what  happened had meant that it had cause  to doubt its liability  under the policy 
terms, i.e. that Mr Vs changing  statements made  a difference to RSAs liability.
I note the copy final decisions  issued by my colleagues that C sent me. But, as C is aware, 
each case we see turns on its own facts.  And for the reasons I gave, I dont think  that Mr V 
has been able to show to RSA that his claim is genuinely valid. Mr Vs inconsistent  accounts 
lead RSA to think  that he was being dishonest or deceitful and was attempting  to gain more 
than he was entitled to.
As Ive said previously, both RSA and I accept  that there was an escape  of water that 
caused damage. And of course, in that sense, Mr V has suffered a loss. But what  matters is 
whether hes suffered  an insured loss. And if he has, whether he has presented  the loss 
honestly.
I dont understand  what C means by saying Ive made a serious  accusation  against Mr V. 
Ive reviewed my provisional  decision and cant identify  either  an advertent or inadvertent 
accusation. Accusations are RSAs to make and its my role to then consider and decide 
whether RSA has treated Mr V fairly and reasonably. And Ive explained  why, in all the 
circumstances, that I think it has. I think it has been able to show that there  was some 
deception or dishonesty (as evidenced  by the inconsistent account of events) on the part of 
Mr V. And Ive already explained why this  taken  with the evidence from the water company 
and RSAs experts  led RSA to question if Mr V was trying to get his claim settled in 
circumstances he wasnt entitled to. 
Mr V accepts that some of what he told RSA wasnt true; that he made a false  statement in 
support of his claim. In so doing theres  been a material breach of the fraud clause as quoted 
above. 
I dont know how Mr Vs property came to be damaged.  So I cant  reasonably say it was 
caused deliberately. I accept that there seems no sensible reason why Mr V would 
intentionally damage his property. Obviously  any intentional damage  isnt fortuitous so isnt 
covered by the policy. But there  are also other ways to cause damage which arent 
fortuitous. Without a clear and consistent  account of events, supported by other evidence 
(such as utility usage or expert assessment), it isnt possible to know what  happened.  
Mr V says that he cant explain why he said hed been abroad when the damage  occurred  
when he wasnt  nor why he speculated  about  how the damage had occurred. Mr V can 
only put it down  to being traumatised by events and to the fact he thought it would make his 
claim sound better. He has never said why he believed  this. He was under no pressure from 
the loss adjuster to provide certain  answers to her questions. Mr V says the extent of the 
damage was such that he speculated that he mustve left the shower on at full blast  because  
he was in a hurry to get to the airport. Now he says he cant remember what  he did before 
he left the house.  Mr V says he cant remember whether he showered in the en-suite or the 
main bathroom, whether  he put a plug in the waste or whether he left the shower  on at all. 
But Mr V said originally  that when he returned home  to find the house  flooded he went 
upstairs and turned off the shower  and removed the plug form the waste.  If Mr V had to turn 
the shower off when  he returned then it must, by default, have been running  in order for him 
Ref: DRN48650856to do so. Further into RSAs investigation,  the loss adjuster asked Mr V why hed more 
recently said hed not left the shower  running when he went away  yet had to turn it off when 
he returned home. Mr V hasnt really been able to account for why he said he turned the 
shower off. He just says he was in a state  of shock and is unable  to recall everything  that 
happened. 
And I can see from the loss adjusters report that damage to the en-suite  bathroom was 
consistent with the shower in that room having been left on. The consulting engineer 
appointed by RSA agreed but also said the water consumption didnt  support  it being left on 
at full blast. Mr V agrees it may not have  been left on at full blast,  just slowly. Alternatively, 
the plug he said he sometimes  inserted  into the waste  outlet  (and which he said he found in 
the waste when  he returned home) could have  caused the tray to overflow  very quickly 
(within 2 minutes). And leaving the shower  door open when the shower was running would 
also have caused  the bathroom  to flood. 
Mr V says its unfair that his speculations are being  used against  him. The policy terms state 
that he must  provide RSA with any reasonable assistance and evidence it requires 
concerning the cause  of a claim and that includes providing details of the loss. So when a 
false account is given,  I dont think its unreasonable for an insurer  to want  to investigate 
whether the claim  thats been presented is genuine. A policyholder is obligated to assist with 
that investigation.
Unfortunately for Mr V, his original speculations  havent been replaced with any other 
explanation for the how the damage  couldve occurred.  Mr V hasnt been able to say why he 
cant explain  what couldve happened; only that he was traumatised and thought that his first 
(false) account  would  make his claim more credible. 
I dont think its reasonable to expect RSA to ignore the first false account.  I also dont think 
its reasonable to expect  a claim to be accepted when no account  can be given as how the 
damage occurred. That isnt complying with the contractual obligation to give reasonable 
assistance concerning the cause of the claim.  So I dont think its a case  of Mr Vs 
speculations being used against him rather its the lack of any explanation about what  
happened after first providing a false account that has led to RSA declining the claim and 
voiding the policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4865085