K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).  
background
Mr and Mrs C complained  about two PPI policies. 
Policy one - our adjudicator explained that information from Halifax  shows  that Mr and Mrs C 
cancelled some accident, sickness and unemployment insurance theyd taken out, during 
the 30 day cooling off period theyd had to decide  if they wanted  to keep that policy  running. 
And that they never  paid anything for that PPI. Our adjudicator said that unless 
Mr and Mrs C had any information that showed something different, it didnt look like they 
had lost out financially when they did this. So we wouldnt  take this part of their complaint 
further. 
Policy two - our adjudicator concentrated on Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about a policy  they 
were sold in 2007 when they had a meeting in a Halifax branch with one of its advisors. They 
took out PPI as part of a total mortgage  protection plan (TMPP),  seemingly to protect  the 
monthly repayments on a mortgage theyd taken out with a different lender  (which we have 
very few details of). The PPI covered Mr C in the event of accident, sickness  and 
unemployment. 
They also took out some  other cover as part of the TMPP but their complaint only relates  to 
the PPI part, which they say they didnt want or need, or even know they had. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  their mis-sale complaint about  either  policy. 
Mr and Mrs C disagree with this. The complaint  came to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Im currently planning not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, for either policy.  Ill explain 
why.
Policy one - Mr and Mrs C havent  said any more about this since  we passed  on the 
information we were able to tell them about  this policy. Based on all the information Ive 
seen, they didnt lose out financially because  I think they cancelled  that cover before they 
had to pay anything  for it. So I hope thats put their minds at rest so far as that policy is 
concerned. 
Policy two  ideally Id expect the paperwork to show whats  likely  to have happened at the 
time and how the PPI was likely to have been  presented when it was sold to Mr and Mrs C. 
Halifax hasnt been able to provide anything signed  by Mr and Mrs C to show how they 
agreed to take out the PPI. But I dont think thats surprising. The PPI was sold around 
12 years  ago. I wouldnt expect Halifax or Mr and Mrs C to have kept all the paperwork for 
this long. 
Ref: DRN48741032Ive taken carefully into account  everything Mr and Mrs C have said, but what they say isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able fairly to uphold their complaint. I have to look at all the 
available information  and decide what I think is most likely.
This service has seen examples of the TMPP paperwork Halifax  used to sell PPI around  this 
time. And we already  know from looking at other cases  what the process  was when Halifax 
sold TMPP. Ive no clear  reason to think that Halifax wouldnt have followed its normal sales 
process here. And Ive seen a copy of a record of a discussion they had with Halifax about 
their particular needs  when  it looks like Halifax identified that Mr and Mrs C had a need  for 
PPI and advised them to take out this cover   along with other  insurance.
It appears Mr and Mrs C mustve decided they wanted the PPI after speaking with the 
advisor. I say this because Halifax wrote  to them shortly afterwards setting out details of the 
cover theyd chosen, showing that Mr C had taken  out PPI (plus theyd both taken out other 
cover offered as part of the TMPP). This letter, which  Ive seen, also included  information 
about their right to cancel  the policy if they didnt want  it. 
So, whilst its understandable  that theyve  forgotten this after so long, I think its likely that 
PPI was discussed and was recommended to Mr and Mrs C. And I think  Mr and Mrs C 
wouldve been aware at the time that it was up to them to say whether or not they wanted  
the PPI as it was something they arranged  separately from their mortgage.
On balance, I think its likely that they decided they wanted the benefits that PPI offered, to 
protect a mortgage theyd  arranged with another lender. Its likely that their mortgage was 
one of their biggest  monthly expenses - and their home couldve been at risk if the mortgage 
payments werent  kept up to date. The PPI provided  a dependable  means of ensuring their 
monthly repayments were  protected.  So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful and 
the accident, sickness and unemployment cover was set up for them when they chose to 
buy it.
Halifax recommended  PPI to Mr and Mrs C. If a business makes a recommendation about  
PPI, it doesnt just have  to give important policy information in a clear  way. It has an extra  
obligation to take reasonable steps  to make sure the cover  it recommends is suitable. 
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Mr C was unable  to work 
because of accident or sickness.  It wouldve  also paid out for up to 12 months per claim if he 
became unexpectedly  unemployed. 
Looking at what theyve  told us about  their financial circumstances  at the time, it looks  like 
the PPI provided  Mr and Mrs C with much  better  protection that they wouldve had 
otherwise. Mr Cs sick pay from work  and his savings  wouldnt have paid the mortgage for as 
long as the PPI wouldve done  if hed made  a successful  claim. Also,  repeat claims were  
possible on the policy so it offered  long term protection  for their mortgage.
I dont know how long its likely that Mrs C wouldve been able to keep up the mortgage 
monthly repayments on her own if Mr C was unable  to work as he was substantially the main 
earner. PPI provided dependable cover that protected their home and it couldve been a 
useful benefit  at a difficult  time. 
So I think the PPI they took out was suitable for them.  
Ref: DRN48741033Mr C wasnt affected by any of the main  conditions limiting the policys benefits. So I think  it 
unlikely that knowing  more about  what the policy didnt cover wouldve put Mr and Mrs C off 
taking it out. 
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs C about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take it out when they didnt have to have it and 
so appear to have  wanted this type of cover. Ive seen nothing  to suggest it was unaffordable 
for them. The cost of the policy was shown in the welcome letter  sent to Mr and Mrs C and 
they couldve queried it then if they decided this wasnt something they wanted to pay for. 
But, from what Ive seen,  it doesnt  look as if that happened.  
Ive kept in mind  also that Mr and Mrs C couldve  cancelled  within  30 days  without having to 
pay anything if they didnt want to pay the amount of the monthly premiums for the mortgage 
protection. 
They signed  an instruction form to their bank to cover the cost of the monthly premiums. So, 
it seems Mr and Mrs C were happy at the time to pay for PPI. And as they were paying for it 
monthly, they could  cancel it at any time without  further cost, if circumstances changed or 
they no longer  wanted it.
Overall, I think it unlikely  that Mr and Mrs C wouldve made  a different decision about taking 
out PPI in 2007 if Halifax had given them better  information. So, even if there were failings in 
the way Halifax  sold them PPI, I dont find theyve lost out as a result  of anything that Halifax  
did wrong.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Neither party has made any further  comments that affect the outcome.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this complaint.
As no further  comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this complaint, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for 
the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN48741034my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 December 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN4874103