K821x#15complaint
Ms T says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Ms T took out a PPI policy with a store card in 1997.  She paid a monthly  amount for the 
policy. Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for 
the complaint.  To keep things simple,  Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ts case. 
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ts complaint. Ill explain why. 
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Ms T so it didnt have to make sure the PPI was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure she had enough information so she could make a 
choice about whether  she wanted the policy  or not. And I dont think it gave Ms T enough 
information.
At the time Ms T was sold the policy, she had a medical condition.  I think  this is important 
because previous, existing and related conditions are excluded  from the policy 
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think Ms T would  have been able to make a successful 
claim for her condition. I think  Ms T wouldve seen this condition  as a likely  reason she might  
want to make a claim under the policy. I dont think  Ms T wouldve bought this policy  if shed 
understood that she wouldnt  be able to claim for it. So I think shes lost out because of what 
FICL did wrong. 
So, for the reasons mentioned above,  I uphold Ms Ts complaint. 
putting things right
FICL should put Ms T in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy  
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and FICL should:
Pay Ms T the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Ref: DRN48676582Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Ms T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Ms T a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4867658