K821x#15complaint
Mr C is unhappy with Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds offer of settlement on a claim 
he made for an escape of water at his property. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2018. I explained that I was 
intending to uphold Mr Cs complaint  in part. I asked everyone to send me any further 
comments and information  before  I reached a final decision. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
Mr Cs property suffered an escape  of water in March 2018. He noticed  steam  
coming from a gas fire in his living room, so switched off his boiler before going out. 
Later that day, he heard a crash in the hallway, and discovered water pouring 
through the ceiling from the airing  cupboard above.  And after investigating  the airing 
cupboard, it appeared the leak was coming from the loft above that.
Mr C attempted to isolate  the water supply himself  but couldnt.  He instructed a local 
plumber to come out and make the situation  safe.  To do this Mr C says the plumber 
capped a pipe in his airing cupboard, but didnt investigate the source  of the leak 
above.
After Mr C reported the claim to Acromas, it arranged for a loss adjuster to visit his 
property and asses the claim. The loss adjusters report  found that Mr Cs property 
was in a poor state of repair. It said there was water damage to the ceiling directly 
below the water tank in the bathroom. It said it believed it would be impossible to 
determine what damage was pre-existing and what was related to the escape  of 
water. It also raised concerns that the property  may not actually be being lived in.
Following the report  Mr C contacted Acromas  to complain that he hadnt had hot 
water for over a fortnight.  Acromas advised him that his policy didnt cover repair  to 
the pipe that burst, only the damage  caused  by the escape of water. It advised Mr C 
to have the pipe repaired. Mr C called  again around a fortnight later and had a similar 
conversation. Mr C told Acromas he felt his claim had been abandoned.
In April 2018 Acromas employed  a claims investigator to interview Mr C and to gather 
information to show that he was living in the property. From Mr Cs interview,  it 
appears he felt the only damage caused by the escape of water was the soaking of 
the carpet in the downstairs hallway, and some sparking from a ceiling light.
Mr C was able to provide  council  tax and utility bills to show he was living  in the 
property. But this investigator also felt that it would be difficult to determine what 
damage was pre-existing  and what was caused  by the escape of water. It 
recommended that Acromas appoint a qualified surveyor  to attend the property and 
determine its liability.
Ref: DRN42237862Acromas appointed the original loss adjusters to send a surveyor to Mr Cs property. 
During this visit the surveyor  changed the light in the hallway. He suggested that as 
the backboiler/fire was a gas appliance that a gas safe engineer  would be needed  to 
decommission it before  further investigation  could be undertaken. 
Following the visit, the loss adjuster  calculated  that redecorating the hallway, stairs  
and landing  area  including stripping and hanging  wallpaper would cost £2,000 plus 
VAT. Due to the poor state of repair, they calculated  their liability  toward this as being 
20% of the total cost. But Acromas didnt  put this offer to Mr C at this stage as it was 
still validating the claim.
Mr Cs claim had still not been resolved to his satisfaction, so he brought his 
complaint to our service in July 2018, where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. He told us he was unhappy  that the pipe hadnt been repaired and that 
he still didnt have hot water.
Our investigator contacted Acromas to find out what was happening with Mr Cs 
claim. It said it had been reviewing the evidence regarding Mr C living  at the property  
before it could validate the claim. It said it would be making an offer to Mr C of 20% 
of the total reinstatement of the damage caused by the escape. It said this came  to 
£480 (inc VAT), but that Mr Cs excess was £450.  So its final offer would be £30.
Our investigator completed  her investigation and provided Mr C and Acromas  with 
her assessment. She thought that although there  had been delays in Acromas  
validating the claim,  Acromas had advised Mr C from the outset that he would need 
to repair  the pipe himself  as it wasnt covered  under his policy.  She said he hadnt, so 
she didnt think the delays had caused  any detriment to Mr C. She told Mr C that 
Acromas would be contacting him with an offer of settlement  for the damage  caused 
by the escape.
Mr C wasnt happy with our investigators  assessment.  He wanted to know  what  she 
meant when she said Acromas needed  to validate  the claim. Our investigator  wrote 
to him and explained that Acromas had concerns  he might not be living in the 
property  which mightve invalidated  his insurance policy. She said she now 
understood that Acromas had written  to him with the offer of settlement.
Mr C remained  unhappy, so because  no agreement has been reached,  the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
After reviewing the information on file, it became apparent that the policy booklet we 
had on file wasnt the correct one for Mr C. I also pointed out that from the policy 
booklet I did have,  it appeared  that the burst pipe was covered, and should be 
repaired by Acromas. I asked it to provide  the correct booklet  and its thoughts  about 
the pipe.
Acromas responded  and agreed that Mr Cs pipe should have been covered from the 
outset. It said it would contact him to arrange repairs, and that it would offer £500 
compensation along with its apology for not having recognised this sooner.
Ref: DRN42237863Mr C didnt want to accept  the offer as he still had concerns  with the damage to his 
electrics. He said he had been told that there  is no power going from his fuse box to 
his gas fire, so the lights arent working. He said this had only been the case  since  
the escape of water,  so he wanted to know whether it was his responsibility or 
Acromas. He didnt want to accept the settlement until the claim had been  fully 
resolved.
I spoke with Acromas about Mr Cs concerns. It agreed that in the circumstances  it 
would be best for all parties if I reviewed its position  on the whole  claim  rather  than 
solely the pipe issue, which  was the subject  of the complaint  initially.  It agreed to 
send me further  evidence  in support of its position.  
Ive now received the information Acromas relied on when calculating  its liability  for 
the claim.  So Ill need to decide  whether I think its offer of settlement is reasonable, 
and whether the £500 offer of compensation for the error it made about the pipe is 
fair.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Acromas has provided its loss adjusters reports and calculations for the settlement 
amount. These include pictures which show the property to be in a poor state  of 
repair. In particular there are significant damp  marks covering the majority of the 
walls in each room.
When our service looks into a complaint about an insurance claim, the starting  point 
is to decide whether the damage  being claimed  for was, on the balance  of 
probabilities, caused  by an insured event.  Its the policy holders (Mr Cs) 
responsibility to show  that an insured event has occurred and that it is the most likely 
cause of any damage. If the policy holder has shown, or the insurer  agrees that an 
insured event has caused the damage  the onus switches to the insurer.  It should  
either accept  the claim, or show that damage isnt covered (because an exclusion 
applies or a condition of the policy has been  breached).
In Mr Cs case, Acromas accepts that an insured  event has taken place   the escape 
of water.  But several experts have visited the property and said it will be impossible  
to accurately determine which  damage  was caused by the escape and which was 
pre-existing. Mr C says that his carpet was soaked  through, and he suspects  his 
electrics have been damaged. But he hasnt been  able to evidence that the problems 
with his electrics are related to the escape of water  and it is for him to show that 
any damage was most likely caused  by the insured event.
Acromas has calculated  an amount it will cost to redecorate Mr Cs hallway and 
stairwell. But it says that the majority  of damage  to that area is pre-existing.  So it is 
offering 20% of that total cost to settle Mr Cs claim for the damage caused by the 
escape of water. In addition to this it has already  paid to replace one of the lights in 
Mr Cs hallway.
Ref: DRN42237864Based on the information Ive seen, I think Acromas  offer is fair in the circumstances.  
I appreciate Mr Cs view that the electrical  supply to his gas fire has been  
compromised by the escape. But I havent seen any persuasive evidence  such as 
an expert report  to support that this is most  likely the case.  If Mr C wants  to provide 
one, Ill be happy  to consider whether it changes my view.
When Mr C first raised the claim, Acromas advised him that it was his responsibility 
to repair  the damaged pipe. It said his policy only covered the damage caused by the 
escape of water, but not the damage  to the pipe. However, it has since become 
apparent that the damage to his pipe was covered, and that he shouldve  been told 
this from the outset.
Acromas incorrectly  advised Mr C that he would need to have  the pipe repaired  
which he didnt. So Ive considered that Mr C didnt  attempt  to mitigate his losses with 
regard to his hot water.  But ultimately I think Acromass mistake here is a significant  
one. It ought to have  recognised that Mr Cs pipe was covered, and had it repaired 
many months ago. Due to its mistake, Mr C says hes been without hot water since 
the escape back in March  2018.  
Acromas has offered to have the pipe repaired/cover the cost of doing so. And to 
recognise its mistake, it has offered to pay Mr C £500 compensation. It made this 
offer in November 2018, but Mr C didnt want to accept it until he knew  what  was 
happening with the rest of his claim.
Taking everything into account,  I think Acromas offer to repair the pipe and pay £500 
compensation is fair in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Mr C responded to my provisional decision and said he didnt intend to obtain an inspection  
report on the issue with the electrical supply to the gas fire. He said the electrician who came 
out and repaired  his light has already inspected it. He asked whether Acromas could instruct  
the same  electrician to visit again,  and produce  a report on the issue.
Acromas didnt respond to my provisional decision, and the deadline to do so has now 
passed, so Im issuing  this final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also carefully  considered Mr Cs 
response to my provisional  decision. Ill set out my thoughts  below.
Mr C has said Acromas electrician has inspected his gas fire already. He asked whether 
that electrician could come back and produce  a report. But from what Ive seen, this 
electrician didnt fully inspect the fire when he attended the property. In his report  he states a 
gas safe engineer  would  be required to decommission  the fire before  further  investigation 
could be carried out to the sockets.  
As I explained in my provisional decision,  its Mr Cs responsibility to show that any issues 
with his electrics were most likely  caused by the escape of water  not Acromas.  I know  
Mr C feels strongly  that the gas fire was damaged by the escape of water.  But he hasnt 
provided any persuasive evidence, such as an expert  report, to support that this was most 
likely the case.  
Ref: DRN42237865Without an expert opinion to support  Mr Cs position,  and taking  into account the pre-existing 
condition of the property, I cant say its most likely that the electrical supply to the gas fire 
was damaged by the escape  of water.  So I dont  think it would be fair to hold Acromas 
responsible for putting it right.
Neither Mr C nor Acromas provided any additional  comments or evidence  about the issues  
with the damaged pipe, the damage  to the hallway caused by the escape of water,  or the 
amount of compensation to be paid.  So I see no reason to depart from the findings I made 
about these issues  in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision I uphold Mr Cs 
complaint in part.
Acromas Insurance  Company Limited  should:
settle Mr Cs claim for the damage  caused  by the escape of water  in line with the 
offer it has already  made
settle the matter  of the damaged pipe in line with the terms and conditions  of the 
policy
pay Mr C £500 to recognise the trouble  and upset  its error has caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4223786