K822xComplaint
Mrs H, represented by Mr H, complains that Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited (trading  
as Barclays Personal  Finance  BPF) didnt give her time at the end of her conditional sale 
agreement to arrange the transfer of her personal  number plate. She also complains that 
she was given incorrect information abut her direct  debit and wasnt provided  with the 
service she should  have when she raised her complaint. 
Background 
Mrs H entered into a conditional sale agreement  with BPF in 2015 to acquire a used car. 
She had a personalised number plate  fitted  to the car. At the end of her agreement  in 2019, 
the car was collected. She says that she wasnt given time to transfer her personal number 
plate from the car before  it was sold meaning she no longer has the number plate. She says 
the number plate had sentimental  value.
Mrs H also says that she was told by BPF when her car was collected that it was being  
treated as a repossession  rather than an agreement  ending and that she was given 
conflicting evidence  about her direct  debit. She says she kept receiving messages saying 
her credit file had been affected even though her account was supposed to be on hold. She 
says that she didnt receive the service she should have during the complaint process. 
BPF says that it wrote to Mrs H on 26 February  and 10 November 2018 to explain that if she 
wanted to return  the car she would be responsible for the removal of any personalised 
number plates and that failure to do this would result  in the number plates  transferring  to 
BPF. It says it received Mrs Hs request  to terminate the agreement  on 12 February  2019  
and the car was collected on 19 February. It says that it and the recovery  company have 
processed the collection as being  end of term and there  was no record of it being  
processed as a repossession. However,  as a gesture of goodwill  it paid Mrs H £30 on 
15 May 2019 for any confusion that had been caused.
BPF says that it spoke  to the recovery  company which  confirmed Mrs H had until 9 March to 
return the car and that it wouldnt have insisted the car was returned on 19 February. It says 
the recovery company  said Mrs H agreed  to the collection date but a copy of the 
conversation wasnt  available. It says Mr H didnt contact it at that time to say the collection 
date wasnt suitable.  
Mrs Hs car was sold at auction  on 5 March 2019. BPF says Mrs H contacted it on 4 April to 
say the car was collected with her personal plates on but at this time the car had been sold 
so there  was nothing  more that could be done.
In regard to Mrs Hs direct debit, it says it cancelled  this on 19 February  2019  and on 21 
February it wrote to Mrs H to advise of an outstanding balance  which  needed to be paid 
within the next 28 days. It then wrote to Mrs H on 9 April and 10 April to incorrectly  tell her 
that her account was in arrears. It says Mrs H contacted it and paid the outstanding  amount 
on 12 April which was within the required timeframe. It says it incorrectly  recorded adverse 
information on Mrs Hs credit file so it has arranged for this to be cleared. It says it 
responded to Mrs Hs complaint within eight weeks and provided her with referral rights to 
this service.
BPF says it upheld Mrs Hs complaint in part and that its offer of £100 compensation was 
reasonable.
Ref: DRN49219592Our investigator though that the offer made  by BPF was reasonable. He thought that BPF 
had given Mrs H enough information to be aware of what steps she needed to take before 
returning the car in regard to her personal  number plate.
Our investigator didnt  think Mrs H had been  provided with the service she should have at 
the end of her agreement. He noted  that BPF acknowledged it could have been clearer that 
the agreement  had been correctly recorded as being  ended due to the end of term and had 
offered Mrs H £30 because of this. He said that BPF incorrectly wrote to Mrs H to say her 
account was in arrears  and recorded  adverse information on her credit file. However he said 
that BPF had apologised for this, removed  the adverse information and made an award of 
£100 for the confusion and distress caused. He thought the actions take by BPF in this case  
were reasonable  
Mrs H didnt accept our investigators view. She said that she didnt receive  the letter from 
BPF regarding her personal number plates. She said she was then given incorrect 
information by the garage  about returning the car. She contacted  BPF and was told to wait 
for a form which she received and completed. She said that she was told she needed to 
return the car within a very short time period  which Mr H says was due to a 
misunderstanding by the recovery agent that the car was being  repossessed. She said she 
took the action  advised  to her regrading removing the number plates and replacing them 
with cardboard and then handing  back the original number plates. She says that this advice 
shouldnt have been given if it was incorrect. 
Mrs H said the car was sold before the end of her contract and that she should have been  
given time to take the steps  necessary to change the registration  of her personal number 
plate. Mr H said the complaint hadnt been  fully investigated. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H entered into a conditional sale agreement  with BPF to acquire a car. The terms and 
conditions of the agreement say that if changes are made to the vehicle,  including  the 
nameplate or identification number the vehicle must  be returned to its original state before 
return. In this case Mrs H changed  the number plates to her personal number plates.
According to BPFs  system notes, the number plate change took place  in February 2018.  It 
then sent a letter to Mrs H regarding this. It has provided a copy  of its number plate letter 
and this sets out the terms of the agreement saying that the vehicle will need to be returned 
to its original condition  if Mrs H decides  to return it. Given this I think  that Mrs H shouldve  
been reasonably aware when she changed her number plate to a personal plate that, in the 
event of her returning  the car, she would  need  to re-register  the car with its original  plates.
BPF has also sent a copy of a letter its systems  say was sent in November 2018. This sets 
out the options available to Mrs H at the end of her agreement.  Under the option of returning 
the car it says that You are responsible for removing any personalised number plates prior 
to the return of the vehicle. If you fail to do so, ownership of the plates will transfer  to 
Barclays Partner Finance  at the time of the return of the vehicle. I understand Mrs H says 
she didnt receive  this letter. However based on the information available  I accept that it was 
sent. 
Ref: DRN49219593Overall, I find that Mrs H was provided with the information she needed  in advance of 
deciding to return her car to understand that she would need  to have her personal number 
plate removed and replaced with the original plates before return.
Mrs H decided to return the car and completed the form for this to happen.  She says she 
then was contacted about the cars collection and not given the time she needed to deal with 
her number plates. While I can see the collection was arranged  shortly after Mrs H had 
requested this, I think by this time it would have  been reasonable that Mrs H would have 
arranged for the removal of her number plates, given this was a condition  of return. 
Mrs H says she raised her concern with the collection company and it told her to remove  the 
plates and return the original plates. I do not have a copy of this call and so I cannot say 
what was said. I note Mrs Hs comments about  relying on this information  but as she went  
through the process of changing the number  plates to the personal number plates in 
February 2018, I think she should have been  reasonably aware of the process involved in 
changing a number plate. 
BPF says that Mrs H didnt then contact it until after the car had been  sold.  At this point I 
accept that it was no longer able to assist  in the return of the number plates. 
I note the comments Mr and Mrs H have made  about the car being thought to have been a 
repossession. I have nothing further  to support this although I acknowledge the point made.  
BPF has said it and the recovery  company had it recorded as an end of term collection and a 
goodwill gesture of £30 was paid to Mrs H.
In this case I think that BPF did provide Mrs H with the information she needed regarding the 
personal number  plates and that had she been  concerned at the point of collection she could 
have contacted it to see if more  time could be given.  This didnt happen. Overall, I do not find 
that BPF did anything wrong in regard to this issue.
BPF didnt  provide the service  it should  have in regard to the end of agreement charges. It 
wrongly said that Mrs Hs account was in arrears when this wasnt  the case. It also recorded 
adverse information  on her credit file. In response  to this BPF says that her credit file has 
been amended  and it apologised  for the mistake. It has also offered to pay Mrs H a further 
£100 for the upset caused.  I find this reasonable.
Mrs H has also complained that she wasnt provided  with the service  she should  have been  
in regard to her complaint. I can see that a complaint was raised  on 4 April and Mrs H was 
sent a holing  letter dated 1 May saying that her complaint was being looked into. She was 
then sent a final response letter  dated  14 May which  included referral  rights to this service. I 
understand that this didnt include the enclosures and so these were sent with a cover letter 
dated 28 May. I accept  that the lack of enclosures will have been frustrating but overall I 
think the response to Mrs Hs complaint was within the required timeframe  and addressed 
the issues she had raised.
Ref: DRN49219594My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays  Personal  
Finance should,  as it has offered, pay Mrs H the £100 (additional to the original goodwill 
gesture of £30) for the inconvenience  and distress  caused by the incorrect arrears  letter  and 
adverse information  being  added to her credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Jane archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4921959