K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
It seems  Mrs A applied for her Barclaycard online in July 2004 and didnt add PPI to her 
account at that time. I understand it was added a month or so later;  Barclays  says this was 
when Mrs A phoned up about  a balance transfer.
Mrs A says she didnt realise  PPI had been added  to her account and she didnt  need  it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs As complaint didnt uphold  it. Mrs A disagrees  and so her 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mrs A she had a choice about PPI and get her 
agreement to it. Although  Mrs A says she bought the PPI when she was given  a leaflet to fill 
in, Barclays says it was sold when she phoned  up about a balance  transfer. From  the 
information Barclays has given us, I think its likely Mrs A was sold the PPI over the phone a 
month or so after she applied for the card.
Barclays doesnt have  a recording of the call or a transcript. But it has referred  us to a call 
script it says its advisers used at the time.  And, in it, a customer  is asked if he or she would 
like to apply for PPI. While its possible PPI was added to Mrs As account  without her 
consent, I think its more  likely  the call script  Barclays has shown us was followed in broad  
terms in Mrs As case. And so I think its likely it was added to her account because  she 
agreed to it (although I understand thats not how Mrs A now remembers  things).
Both Barclays and Mrs A say it recommended the PPI to her. So it needed to make sure it 
was right for her. From what Mrs A says of her circumstances  at the time, and the policy 
details Ive got, I think it was. I say this because, based on these things:
Mrs A was eligible  for the PPI. And I dont think shed have been  affected by any of 
the main things the policy  didnt cover  like known health issues  or unusual 
employment terms. So I dont  think there  was anything stopping her claiming the full 
policy benefit, if shed  needed to.
I think Mrs A couldve found the cover  useful. Although she says she got good  sick 
pay, the PPI wouldve helped with Mrs As card repayments for up to 12 months  for 
each successful accident, sickness or unemployment  claim she made. So it wouldve 
paid out for longer than Mrs A says her full sick pay lasted  and it wouldve paid out 
on top of it. And although Mrs A says she couldve relied on her family  for help, this 
Ref: DRN47192312kind of help cant always be guaranteed  and isnt the same as having  an insurance 
policy to fall back on.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mrs A couldnt afford the cover.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Mrs A, Barclays also had to give her enough  
clear information about the policy for her to be able to make an informed decision  about 
whether she wanted  it. I dont know what  steps  Barclays took to do this. But, as Ive said, I 
think its likely Mrs A agreed  to the cover  and I also think it was right for her. So I think 
clearer information  if it had been  needed  would only have confirmed this to Mrs A and 
wouldnt have changed her decision to go ahead with it.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs A about  that. Because Barclays  didnt tell Mrs A, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Limited (trading as Barclaycard)  
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to  Mrs A.
But Barclays  Bank UK Limited  (trading as Barclaycard) does have to pay back  to Mrs A any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4719231