K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about a default that Close Brothers  Limited has registered on his credit file, 
and the fact it has ended his finance  agreement. Mr S is assisted in his complaint by a legal 
representative. 
background
Mr S entered into a hire purchase  agreement in March 2017 with Close Brothers to acquire a 
car for his partner, Ms R. She was the registered  keeper of the car and the insurance  policy  
was in her name. Mr S made  the payments due under the finance agreement. Mr S says that 
Close Brothers was aware  the car was for Ms R. 
Mr S and Ms R later separated. She took the car and moved  away. Mr S does not know  
where she is. 
Mr S was contacted by the insurance company to tell him the car had been stolen in August  
2017. The car has not been recovered. 
Close Brothers issued  a notice of default asking for the agreement to be settled in full. This 
is because the car is not registered  at Mr Ss property, and he is not in possession of it. 
Close Brothers say the terms  and conditions of the finance agreement say he cannot  give 
the car to a third party. Mr S has to keep the car in his possession or control. Close Brothers  
says it is entitled  to end the agreement in these circumstances.  It issued a default  notice and 
asked Mr S to repay the balance due under the agreement. 
Mr S was not happy with this and he brought a complaint to us to consider. 
The investigator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  She noted that Mr 
S says the sales advisor was aware  the car was for Ms R. The investigator  considered  Close 
Brothers was entitled to add a default and demand  full payment when the car was stolen 
from a different address from the address  on the agreement. The car has not been 
recovered. The terms and conditions  of the agreement say that Close Brothers can default 
your agreement if any information youve given  them is false  or misleading  and they can 
terminate the agreement if Mr S is no longer in possession of the goods.
The investigator  pointed  out that Mr S was not the legal owner of the car until he had finished 
paying off the loan. Close Brothers agree  to lend on the basis that they own the car, 
whilst Mr S pays them back. The terms and conditions  state that Mr S must  keep  the goods 
in his control. Mr S breached the terms and conditions of the agreement he had with them 
when Ms R took the car after the couple  separated. Because  the property has been lost, Close  
Brothers  can demand payment of the loan in full and issue  a default notice.
Mr S does not agree with the investigators recommendation. He says,  in summary, that the 
car was bought  for Ms R. The V5 was in her name and at her separate  address. The couple 
were estranged at the time Mr S entered into the finance agreement. Ms R was the legal  
registered keeper  of the car. The car was insured  in her name  and at her address. 
Mr S says the default has been issued by Close Brothers as it says he is in breach of the 
finance agreement. Mr S says Close Brothers  and the dealer were aware that the car was 
for Ms R. This was clear from the documents. Mr S has not transferred the car as it was 
never in his control. Mr S has not breached  the finance agreement as a result. 
Ref: DRN49948202Mr S says it is not clear  if Close Brothers  has tried to recover the cost of the car from the 
insurance company.  
Mr S has been charged multiple fees for the default  notice. He has paid all payments due 
under the finance agreement. 
In response, the investigator considered she had no evidence to show  that Close Brothers 
was aware the car was not to be kept at Mr Ss address. Mr S has said his English was not 
fluent so he did not speak much  to the dealer. Close Brothers has said it had no problems 
communicating with Mr S due to any language barrier. 
The investigator considered that Mr S signed a finance agreement which says he is 
responsible for the car. The car should  remain in his possession and at the address named  
in the agreement. Close Brothers has said a person can take out a finance agreement to 
acquire a car for their partner. The couple are usually at the same  address. Mr S has said he 
was still with Ms R when he entered into the finance agreement. Close  Brothers would not 
have known the car was at a different address. 
Mr S did not agree  and asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr S put in a complaint to us, he very helpfully attached a lengthy  submission  which 
detailed the factual background to his complaint.  This makes it clear  that when Mr S entered  
into the finance agreement, he was still with his partner. They  had not separated  at this 
point. They did not separate until after Mr S signed  the finance agreement. Given  the couple 
were together and living at the same  address at this time, I consider that Close Brothers 
would not have been aware that the car was not to be kept at the address provided by Mr S. 
Ms R was living there at that time. The car may have been  for Ms R, but I consider  Close  
Brothers was entitled to assume the car would  be kept at the couples address given they 
were living together  at that time. 
Mr S sets out in his complaint  form that the couple  separated shortly after he entered  into the 
finance agreement. Ms R moved out of the address  contained in the finance agreement. 
The finance  agreement says the car had to be kept under Mr Ss control or possession. Mr S 
admits he did not know where  Ms R was living after their separation. He is not in contact with 
her. This means he was in breach  of the finance agreement. I consider that Close  Brothers 
was entitled to end the finance agreement and demand payment in full. Further, it was 
entitled to default the account when Mr S failed to comply with the termination  notice.  
I note Mr S says he has limited English. He did not indicate on his complaint form that he 
had any additional  communication  needs. Close Brothers says it has not had a problem 
communicating with him. I am persuaded Mr S had enough knowledge  of the English  
language to understand what he was signing. If he did not, I consider he should  not have 
agreed to enter into the agreement. 
Ref: DRN49948203I agree  with the investigator that a car can be registered in another persons name but still be 
at the address stated in the agreement.  The registration of the car in Ms Rs name did not 
mean that Mr S did not have to follow  the terms of the finance agreement. This said the car 
had to be in his possession or control. When it was not, Mr S broke the agreement.  Close 
Brothers was entitled to end it and demand  full payment. 
Mr S agrees  in his complaint  form that he agrees he was bound by the requirement  of the 
agreement to make payments due under it. I consider he was bound by all the terms of the 
agreement not just the payment clauses.  
I note Mr S has queried how much he has been  charged for the default which  has been 
issued. Close Brothers  should  send Mr S a breakdown of the charges which have been 
added to his balance. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Rosemary Lloyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4994820