K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited  (trading as Privilege Home Insurance)  
mishandled his home emergency insurance.
background
In May 2018  Mr S took out home  buildings  insurance with the optional extra of home 
emergency cover. Privilege was the insurer responsible for dealing  with claims. Where I refer 
to Privilege or the insurer I include  call-handlers  and others for whose actions I hold the 
insurer responsible.
Later in 2018,  Mr S called  the insurer for help with a leak of water from a downstairs toilet. 
The insurer  sent a plumber who isolated the water supply to the toilet  but didnt fix the 
source of the leak.
Mr S complained that the insurer had mis-sold the policy  otherwise it shouldve  done more 
in response to his claim.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought that Mr S 
ought to have had the leak repaired by the repairer  Privilege sent to his property. The 
investigator recommended that the insurer should:
1.cover  the costs of the repairs Mr S wouldve had to carry out to put this right. In doing  
so the investigator  expected that the insurer would take account of the limits that 
would apply in line with the policy had the repairer sent by Privilege carried out the 
repairs in the first instance;
2.pay Mr S £50.00 in recognition of the trouble and upset that was caused as a result 
of how his claim had been  handled.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to Privilege  on 26 June 2019.  I summarise  my findings:
In an emergency  the insurer had to send an authorised repairer.  But he or 
she may give Emergency assistance by some alternative sorts of work 
including work to temporarily  deal with an emergency or work to carry  out 
emergency repairs or work to prevent further  damage.
The policy only required the insurer to send  a plumber to do one of the 
alternative sorts of work mentioned in the definition of Emergency 
assistance. 
I couldnt say that the plumber didnt do enough work to temporarily  deal with 
the emergency or to prevent further  damage. He did prevent further water 
damage.
Ref: DRN40762352Subject to any further information from Mr S or from Privilege, my provisional decision was 
that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend  to direct U K Insurance  Limited 
(trading as Privilege  Home Insurance) to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Neither Mr S nor Privilege  made any comments in response to the provisional decision.  So I 
see no reason to change my view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The policy terms included the following:
If there is an emergency in your home, when you call us:
 we will tell you what you can do in order to protect  yourself and your home
 we will send an authorised repairer  to your home straight away, or arrange a time 
for them to come
 we will pay up to £500 (including VAT) for each emergency assistance call out to 
cover the cost of:
 the call out
 labour at your home
 parts.

Youre covered for
Plumbing  and drainage
We will pay the cost of emergency assistance needed for an emergency  involving:
 internal plumbing and drainage
The policy included the following definitions:
Emergency (section  5) An incident in the home that happens during the period of 
insurance and which needs to be dealt with quickly to avoid:
 making the home unsafe  or insecure for you
 damaging the home and its contents, or
 the home losing its main source  of heating, lighting or water (hot or cold).
Emergency assistance (section 5) Work  carried out by an authorised repairer or 
suitably qualified repairer to temporarily or permanently deal with an emergency , 
carry out emergency  repairs  or prevent further  damage
So in an emergency the insurer had to send an authorised repairer. But he or she may give 
Emergency  assistance  by some  alternative sorts of work  including work to temporarily  deal 
with an emergency  or work to carry out emergency repairs  or work to prevent further 
damage.
I have listened  to the two calls from Mr S to Privilege in April and May 2018.  The premium  of 
about £194.00 included about  £43.00  for home emergency  cover. I dont think  Privilege 
misrepresented the terms of the home emergency  cover. And I cant say that the cover was 
unsuitable for Mr S or of no value  to him. So Im not minded  to find it fair and reasonable to 
order the insurer to refund the premium.
Ref: DRN40762353The leak in Mr Ss downstairs toilet mightve  caused damage if it had been left. So there was 
an emergency.
But the policy only required  the insurer to send a plumber to do one of the alternative sorts of 
work mentioned in the definition of Emergency assistance. And I cant  say that the plumber 
didnt do enough  work to temporarily deal with the emergency or to prevent further damage. 
He did prevent further water damage.
So Im not minded to find it fair and reasonable to order the insurer to do any more work or to 
pay compensation to Mr S.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. I 
dont direct U K Insurance  Limited  (trading as Privilege Home Insurance) to do anything  
further in response  to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4076235