K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Inter Partner Assistance S.A. (IPA) gave her poor service under her 
home emergency insurance.
background
Ms S had a home insurance policy branded  with the name of a bank. The policy had various  
sections. One of the sections was for home  emergency cover. There  was no excess payable 
on a claim.  IPA was the insurer responsible for dealing with claims under that section. Where  
I refer to IPA I include engineers and others  for whose actions I hold IPA responsible. 
Another insurer was responsible for claims under other sections of the policy.  One of those 
other sections was buildings insurance,  including cover for damage caused by an escape of 
water. There  was an excess of £450.00  payable on a claim.
Ms S has a house  with a basement  and four further  floors. She takes  in paying guests. On 
about 5 October  Ms S called in a plumber of her own. On about  6 October she called IPA for 
help as her radiators werent working. 
On 12 October she reported  a leak from a radiator which had caused water damage.  Ms S 
made a claim on her buildings insurance.  So she had to bear the excess of £450.00.
Ms S instructed her own heating engineers. They resolved the heating  problem and sent her 
two invoices totalling about £1,500.00. 
Ms S complained that IPA was responsible for the water damage and a loss of earnings 
during the period of repairs to her property. She also complained  that IPA only reimbursed 
part of her engineers  invoices  of about  £1,500.00.
IPAs final response letter  said it was sending Ms S a cheque  for a total of £1,100.12  - 
£150.00 for distress  and inconvenience and £950.12 for the independent engineers  costs.
our investigators opinion
At first our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
that there  was very little evidence  to show that IPA caused any damage. She didnt agree 
that IPA should  cover  the loss of earnings  as this isnt included  under the policy.  Given that 
the policy limit was £1,000.00- the offer of £1,100.00 (which  includes the cost of the repairs  
and compensation)  was fair and reasonable, the investigator said.
Ms S disagreed with the investigators opinion. 
The investigator changed her view. She recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. 
She thought  that:
IPA didnt do all it could to handle Ms Ss claim in a timely or professional  manner. 
It couldve done more  to prevent further damage. 
Ref: DRN41089512 The fact that the heating  programmer  had been  on permanently  for two weeks  
wouldve contributed  to the leak from the radiator due to the constant heat and build-
up of pressure.
Ms S was caused  further  trouble and upset  by the engineers failing to attend the 
property and by having to make  several phone  calls to IPA to discuss  the status  of 
her claim.
IPA has confirmed that two separate claims were  set up so Ms S is entitled to have 
both claims settled  up to the maximum amount of £1,000.00  each.
The leak has damaged  her home meaning  that she cant house guests. But IPA 
shouldnt be held responsible for the consequential  lost income.  It wasnt  something 
that was foreseeable from the poor service.
The radiator valve was already corroded  and this made a significant contribution 
toward the leak occurring.
The investigator recommended  that IPA should:
1.pay both claims  in full;
2.pay £450.00 to cover Ms Ss buildings insurance  excess;
3.pay £300.00 compensation  for the trouble  and upset Ms S was caused  due to delays 
and poor customer service.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms S 
and to IPA on 3 July 2019. I summarise my findings:
Overall I wasnt  persuaded that there was enough  evidence to show  that IPA caused 
the leak from the radiator. 
It followed that I didnt  find it fair and reasonable to order IPA to compensate  Ms S for 
the £450.00 excess on her buildings insurance  claim, or for loss of income from 
letting, or for having to move out during the remedial  works.
IPA reimbursed Ms S £950.00 and - keeping in mind her engineers invoices and the 
policy limits   I was minded that this was fair and reasonable.
But Id seen some  delays and some  shortcomings  in the way IPA communicated with 
Ms S. I didnt doubt that these caused her some  extra distress  and inconvenience  at 
an already difficult time for her. So Id thought about fair and reasonable 
compensation for this. I thought that  if IPA hadnt made any offer  I wouldve found 
£150.00 fair and reasonable. And IPAs final response included £150.00 for distress 
and inconvenience.  
Subject to any further information from Ms S or from IPA, my provisional  decision was that I 
wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. I didnt  intend to direct  Inter Partner Assistance S.A. 
to do any more in response to this complaint.
Ref: DRN41089513Ms S disagrees with the provisional decision. She says in summary that:
Each job reference is to the cost of £1,000.00 and they insisted on 2 separate  jobs.
She questions why an order for the boiler valves would  take 2 weeks.
In a phone call the engineer said he only had 1 not 2 boiler  valves Then  did he not 
show up at all. This wasted her work  time. It added to her anxiety for which  she has 
prescribed medicine.  
Many  phone calls were  not responded to. 
The emergency service left her with no heating for 2 weeks. Then no water  after 2 
weeks when the other  boiler  valve broke  - and the next job number was allocated to 
this. 
The boiler valves werent corroded. 
The original heating  engineer didnt look at the radiator valve.
It was negligent  service.
Boiler valves are available from all plumbing suppliers or from her own supplier.
Her plumber didnt touch the boiler.
IPA shouldve installed the new valve in a day like the third party supplier  did. 
They put the programmer onto 24/7.
Compensation is due for her loss of work  loss of time.
The boiler company  letter shows they would not recommend leaving the boiler  in this 
condition for over 2 weeks.
IPA stopped her getting her own supplier.
Had the emergency insurer fixed the issue straight away the further problems  would 
not have happened.
IPA (or its subcontractor) was negligent in responding  to the issue  in time. That was 
a trigger to the flood she had over 2 floors causing  substantial damage.
It is also logical to assume if a valve is sticking and it is corroded on - it does not 
move and why would it blast off?
All the compounded time loss has led Ms S to lose work time and bookings.
IPAs subcontractor do not understand this boiler  system as they made  no effort  to 
come to fix the problem  and ordered  a part only suitable for a completely different 
boiler system.
She did not refuse an engineer coming  out  she made valid reference  to the person 
coming out understanding the boiler  system. 
She was upset as this is an emergency  cover service and she did not get adequate 
service. 
Because of the time lapse in effectively dealing with the loss of heat and water,  her 
income has been compromised.
IPAs subcontractor bought the wrong part, did not give a quote when asked to do so 
and did not fix the problem.  That is evidence  enough  that IPA or its subcontractor  did 
not have any idea how this boiler  works  or how to fix it. They  cannot  say they did not 
cause the further issues.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN41089514From what  shes  said, Ms S had a home  emergency  claim in 2015 which involved water 
damage amounting  to about £25,000.00.
In 2018 the home emergency  insurance  covered sudden and unforeseen incidents creating 
a risk of damage. I dont  think  IPA was responsible for changing any sticking radiator valves.
The policy limit of £1,000.00 per claim was for the cost of repairs  arranged  by IPA. There 
was a lower limit of £500.00 per claim if IPA gave prior agreement for Ms S to arrange her 
own repair.
From what  she told IPA later, I think  that on Friday 5 October  2018,  Ms S had called  in a 
plumber of her own. On about  6 October she had two telephone conversations  with IPA. Ive 
listened to the recordings.  From them, I make the following findings:
Ms S had large radiators on the ground and first floors. They werent  working. 
A radiator valve had been sticking.
During her plumbers visit on Friday 5 October, there had been - in her words-  
a three-bar pressure  explosion of water.
The hot water system  was working. That was providing heat through  towel  
rails on the second and third floors.
The plumber had found a corroded radiator valve.  He also suspected  a faulty  
motorised valve  a part of the boiler  which required a heating  engineer.
Ms S wanted to have the radiator valves changed  while the system was 
drained down.
Ms S would prefer to choose her own engineers and for IPA to reimburse her. 
At that time IPA didnt  guarantee  that it would reimburse her.
Keeping in mind  the policy terms, I dont agree with Ms S that - after she told it that they 
were sticking  - IPA became responsible for preventing  leaks from her radiator valves.
I think IPA missed an appointment.  But it visited on Tuesday 9 October. It told Ms S it 
needed to order  parts to fix the boiler. I dont find it unreasonable that IPA felt obliged  to 
order parts  from a particular supplier.
However IPA left the system programmed,  it was like that for only a few days. On Friday  12 
October Ms S reported that one of the radiator valves had leaked.
Ms S holds IPA responsible for the damage and its consequences for her (insofar  as she 
cant make  a recovery from the buildings insurer).  
Ms S thinks that  as IPA left the control box programmed to be constantly providing hot 
water  the other  motorised valve failed, pressure built up and the radiator valve  leaked.
A claims- handler from the buildings insurer visited Ms S on 15 October  and made notes 
including the following:-
Ref: DRN41089515she has had problems  with Home Emergency. They initially  attended  and 
assessed the problem. Despite the customer advising she could supply the new 
valves, Home  Emergency said they would. As a result the customer had no hot water  
or heating  for a week and she has been chasing Home Emergency  for them  to 
return. Then on Friday  the 12th her radiator  burst causing damage.  It transpired  
when the home emergency engineer came on Tuesday, he left both programmers on 
and the thermostat at its highest. It was this that caused the leak to occur.
In terms of the damage caused, whilst I am not an engineer, what the customer  
advised did seem  feasible.  With regards to the Home Emergency Services, even 
during my visit Ms S called them to find out when their engineer was attending and to 
explain the position and they didnt appear to be very helpful to her predicament.
So his notes  say there had been no hot water  or heating.  And he didnt make a note about a 
build-up of pressure. But he accepted as feasible  Ms Ss view that IPAs  engineer  caused  
the leak by leaving  the way he left the system programmed. But I dont think the buildings  
insurer needed to investigate that explanation in order to deal with Ms Ss claim for damage 
caused by an escape of water.
Ive seen two similar  invoices from Ms Ss heating  engineer. They are for work  done on 17, 
19 and 22 October. But they dont mention any escape of water  or any explanation for one.
A boiler  manufacturer  tod Ms S the following:
you have a 28Kw Open-Vented boiler. Open-vented boilers are very simple   
they do not know whether they are creating central  heating water or domestic hot 
water. They  will come on when either  the thermostat or hot water timer tells it to and 
will heat the water to the desired temperature. In your case I believe this temperature 
was 60 degrees centigrade.
Once the water is at temperature  it is sent to the flow pipe and the system  valves will 
either send  it to the central heating or the hot water tank.Assuming  the water feeds 
into your property at 10 degrees, your boiler can heat water  to 60 degrees at a rate of 
8 litres  per minute.
I cannot comment on the process  your engineers took specifically, but I can say that 
we would not advise leaving a fault with the heating system unattended for two 
weeks.
But that doesnt say what might be the consequences of leaving a fault unattended.  So it 
doesnt support  the explanation about  the control box and a build-up of pressure.
Overall Im not persuaded  that there  is enough evidence to show that IPA caused  the leak 
from the radiator. 
It follows that I dont find it fair and reasonable to order IPA to compensate Ms S for the 
£450.00 excess on her buildings  insurance claim, or for loss of income from letting, or for 
having to move out during  the remedial works.
Ms S has said that IPA agreed  in writing to pay her engineer. But I havent  seen any such 
written agreement. IPA reimbursed Ms S £950.00 and - keeping in mind  her engineers 
invoices and the policy limits mentioned above  I find that this was fair and reasonable.
But Ive seen some  delays and some  shortcomings  in the way IPA communicated with Ms S. 
I dont doubt that these  caused her some  extra distress  and inconvenience  at an already 
Ref: DRN41089516difficult time for her. So Ive thought about fair and reasonable compensation for this. I think  
that  if IPA hadnt made any offer  I wouldve found £150.00 fair and reasonable. And 
IPAs final response included £150.00  for distress and inconvenience. 
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to order IPA to pay any more  in response to Ms Ss 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. I 
dont direct Inter Partner Assistance S.A. to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4108951