K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE turned  down his furniture warranty  claim.
background
Mr M made a claim for damage to his sofa.  Dye had transferred from a blanket onto the sofa. 
Great Lakes turned down the claim.  It said the policy only covered dye transfer from 
newspaper print or clothing.  It said that as the damage hadnt been caused  by either of 
these, Mr Ms claim wasnt covered. Unhappy with this, Mr M brought  a complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. She thought Mr Ms use of a 
blanket on the sofa was no different to him using  a shawl.
Great Lakes didnt accept  our investigators findings, so the matter  has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy says Leather and Leather-Look upholstery is covered against sudden  and 
accidental dye transfer from newspaper  print and / or clothing under staining. 
The policy excludes  changes  in colour regardless of the cause, other than staining  described 
above. 
Mr M explained to Great  Lakes that he was unwell and covered  himself with a black blanket 
whilst on the sofa. Unfortunately,  some of the dye from the blanket  transferred to the sofa.
I appreciate the damage wasnt caused  by newspaper print or clothing. Nevertheless, I think 
the investigator raises  a valid point that theres  little difference  between  a blanket and a 
shawl.
Great Lakes says that clothing is usually  colourfast  in order to limit the chances of dye 
transfer happening. And that blankets  dont have colourfast protection.  
I would imagine there are plenty of clothing  items that arent colourfast. I cant see the 
difference between  a blanket and non-colourfast shawl,  yet if Mr M had used a shawl  then 
the damage would  have  been covered. 
That being  the case, I think Great Lakes  ought  to accept the claim on a fair and reasonable 
basis. 
The policy also requires the damage  to be sudden. Mr M says it happened around 
20 October when he was ill. However,  Great  Lakes technician  thought  the damage had 
happened over several  days.
Great Lakes initially disputed that the damage was sudden. But as the investigator pointed 
out, the technician examined the sofa three  months after the damage happened  and the 
Ref: DRN44469522sofa had continued to be used over that period.  She thought it was entirely possible the stain  
had ingrained into the fabric over that time.  I see that Great  Lakes has now accepted this, so 
I dont need to consider this point further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Great  Lakes Insurance SE to deal 
with the claim under  the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4446952