K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) because  hes been charged  fees for 
making international money transfers which he believed  were free.
background
Mr H has had a bank  account with HSBC for many years.  He uses his bank account  in the 
UK to make transfers to his wifes account in Egypt. In the past, hes gone  into a branch to 
make the transfers,  but in 2018, he started  using the online service to do this as he was 
becoming less mobile. 
Mr H incurred three £15.00 charges which were made to his account  after the three  separate  
transfers took place  on 13 March  2018,  8 May 2018 and 5 July 2018. On 
12 November 2018, he made a further online transfer but wasnt  charged this time as he 
opted to share the charges with the bank in Egypt. He was unhappy with the charges made 
on the transfers in the first part of the year and made  a complaint to HSBC.  
The bank issued  its final response on 18 October 2018. It said Mr H had selected that he 
would pay all charges  relating  to the transfers  and therefore the bank in Egypt  requested the 
£15.00 to be paid by the UK bank account (Mr Hs). HSBC said it hadnt made an error  and it 
didnt agree to refund  the charges  incurred by Mr H as they were  in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. 
Unhappy with HSBC,  Mr H brought  the complaint to this service. Our investigator  looked into 
it and said he didnt  think HSBC had done anything wrong. He said because Mr H had 
changed how the transfers were  being  made (from using the branch to online), its likely the 
charge was always being incurred but this was taken  from the HSBC  Egypt  account  rather  
than it being taken from the HSBC  UK account.  Mr H had only started  noticing  the charge 
because he was ticking the box which said that he was agreeing  to pay the charge from his 
account. 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators assessment and has asked for an ombudsman  to make  
a decision. The case has therefore been  passed to me. 
Mr H says HSBC Egypt has said it doesnt  know anything about  the charges as they didnt 
originate from there. He says this will now affect the relationship  hes had with the bank and 
his ongoing need to make  the transfers  to his wifes account in Egypt. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue I will need to decide on is whether I think the charges that have been made 
were in line with the terms and also whether or not I think theyve been applied  fairly. 
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of the account. This says:
Charges and additional product terms:
If we send money outside  the EEA,  we may use an intermediary bank.  This intermediary  and 
the receiving bank may also impose charges.
Ref: DRN47844282Ive also looked  at the instructions provided  online for when transfers  are being done by 
customers. If the customer selects I want to pay all the fees. It explains:
HSBC Bank (UK) fees (shown on the screen before you make the payment) will be deducted 
from your account. The payee will pay any charges and fees applied by the intermediary 
bank(s) used to send the payment  these  may be deducted from the payment.
Having looked  at the above, Im satisfied  that HSBC made Mr H sufficiently aware  of what  
would happen  if he ticked the box and also who would be responsible for the charge. I cant 
see anything in the evidence provided  to say that the charges were not in line with the terms 
and conditions.
I can see also that Mr H doesnt dispute  that he ticked the box when he made the three 
transactions online in 2018. But he says he wasnt always charged the fee previously and 
thought they were free. I cant  say with certainty what happened with the charges previously, 
but its likely  that a fee has always  been charged  but hadnt always been noticed by Mr H.
HSBC has also shown  Mr H was unhappy about  fees that were charged to his account in 
March 2015 and June 2015.  He raised the issue at the time with HSBC. At that point, HSBC 
refunded the charges to Mr H and the bank also made a £100  gesture of goodwill payment 
to him.
So taking account of all the available evidence, Im not persuaded that HSBC acted unfairly 
or unreasonably  in charging Mr H for the online transfers he made  in 2018. I therefore dont 
think HSBC needs  to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint against HSBC  UK Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4784428