K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA)  declined  a claim 
under their buildings  insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C had buildings insurance  with RSA and made a claim when they noticed damp 
around the doorway in their home. They explained they had radiators there, but they didnt 
think there was a leak. So RSA advised  them to contact a builder to try to find out what  had 
caused the damage, and to provide  two estimates for the repairs.
The first contractor Mr and Mrs C contacted concluded there  is an active outbreak of dry rot 
in living  room and hallway. This rot, fungus  and damaged flooring timbers,  skirting, 
architraves, door framing and has spread behind plasterwork in certain areas. The second  
contractor also described a dry rot problem.
RSA told Mr and Mrs C the claim  was unlikely to be covered because there was no evidence 
the rot was linked to an insured event. But it agreed to have the damage inspected by one of 
its surveyors. The surveyor concluded  there was no insurable event, so RSA declined the 
claim. 
Mr and Mrs C werent  satisfied and so they complained to this service. They said they 
werent happy with RSAs  decision to decline their claim  and that they wanted it to produce  a 
detailed report to confirm  the cause of the damage. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied RSA had 
relied on the conclusions of the contractors from whom Mr and Mrs C had sought estimates, 
and the surveyors  it had appointed to assess the claim. Theyd all concluded the damage  
was a result  of rot, which  was excluded under the policy. She explained Mr and Mrs C could 
get an independent report to try to identify the cause of the rot, but that would have to be at 
their own expense and wouldnt necessarily change the outcome of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs C subsequently obtained an expert  report. The expert  thought it appeared that 
attacks from the dry rot fungus had been caused  primarily by a combination of slight  but 
prolonged penetrating dampness and inadequate  subfloor  ventilation.  Penetrating dampness 
will have occurred due to defective rainwater goods, persistent splashback  from water 
regularly discharging through the overflow  pipe and high finished ground  levels  along the 
right. This may have  been exacerbated by items such as the cracked window sill at the front-
right of the first floor and the DPM to the hallway  subsite.
Our investigator told Mr and Mrs C that the report didnt alter her opinion and so theyve 
asked for their complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
our investigator, for broadly the same  reasons.
RSA explained  to Mr and Mrs C that it would only consider a contribution towards the cost of 
the repairs if there was evidence  that an insured event had taken place. Such  events would 
Ref: DRN46004282include fire, theft, escape of water, storm or flood,  and as rot is otherwise excluded under the 
policy, Im satisfied this was fair and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs C have previously suggested  RSAs surveyors  report  wasnt  sufficiently  
detailed. Theyve since  obtained their own report, but I dont accept  RSAs  initial  position  
was based on insufficient evidence. The damage  had been  inspected by two builders and a 
surveyor who all diagnosed rot, and RSA declined  the claim because there was no evidence 
it was linked to an insured  event. It was then for Mr and Mrs C to show there  had been an 
insured event and that this had caused the rot. Im not satisfied  theyve done  that and, 
therefore, Im satisfied RSAs decision not to contribute to the cost of the repairs was fair.
I understand Mr and Mrs C are disappointed,  especially as the age of their home means 
these kinds of things  are more likely to happen.  But the policy  also excludes any loss, 
damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused by or resulting from wear  and tear, 
depreciation, corrosion, rusting, damp,  insects, vermin, fungus,  condensation, fading, frost or 
anything which happens gradually, the process  of cleaning, dyeing, repair,  alteration,  
renovation or restoration or any consequential loss. 
In the report submitted by Mr and Mrs C, its clear the expert believed the rot was linked to 
the condition of the rainwater goods,  or possibly a cracked window  sill. As these issues  can 
all reasonably be described as wear  and tear, the damage is excluded. Further,  Im satisfied 
the rot was gradual in nature and wouldve been apparent to Mr and Mrs C for sometime 
before they contacted RSA.
I understand Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed  but Im satisfied RSAs  decision to decline 
the claim was fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 September 2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4600428