K820x#14complaint
Miss T says Ferratum  UK Ltd lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Miss T had two loans  with Ferratum. Ive included some of the information Ferratum 
provided about the loans  in the table below.
Loan 
No.Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountMax 
Repayment
1 07/01/2018 01/02/2018 1 £300 £360
2 21/02/2018 Outstanding 1 £300 £388
An adjudicator considered  the complaint but didnt  think it should be upheld. She thought  it 
was reasonable  for Ferratum to lend as it didnt have reason to think   from the information  it 
obtained or ought to have obtained   that the lending  wasnt  affordable for Miss T.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
Having considered everything, Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Im sorry  to hear Miss T had problems repaying  the second  loan and that she is in financial 
difficulty. But I dont  think Ferratum was aware, or ought reasonably  to have  been  aware,  
that this was the case at the time it approved the loans.
I can see Miss T said she was in permanent employment when she applied  for the loans, 
earning £1,500  a month. On the face of it, the loan repayments dont obviously appear to be 
too high compared to her income.
Ferratum also carried out credit checks and on balance I dont think  the information Ferratum  
obtained ought to have  caused it to think the loans were likely  to be unaffordable  for Miss T. 
Although it seems the credit check revealed  Miss T had borrowed from other lenders before 
turning to Ferratum,  I dont think this alone indicated  it wasnt appropriate to lend to her.
Its possible asking Miss T for more information  wouldve  revealed  she was in financial 
difficulty. But in the circumstances of these loans, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate 
for Ferratum to obtain that level of information.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Miss Ts complaint against  Ferratum UK Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Ref: DRN47481222Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4748122