K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lex Autolease Ltd took two payments in the same month. He thinks 
hes overpaid and would  like a refund.
background
Mr M had a car hire agreement with Lex. He says he extended this by six months and later 
extended it again by twelve months.  Shortly after this he discovered that in one month  Lex 
took two payments from him.
Mr M complained to Lex about this but it didnt  uphold  his complaint. It said Mr Ms vehicle 
was in extended hire and the billing was correct. Mr M was unhappy with Lexs  response  so 
he brought his complaint to our service. 
When our adjudicator looked  into Mr Ms complaint  he didnt recommend that it should be 
upheld. The adjudicator explained  that the agreement Mr M had initially  taken out was billed 
partly in arrears and partly in advance.  When the agreement went  into an informal  extension 
the billing  changed  to being in arrears. He noted that Mr Ms agreement  remained in an 
informal extension until mid-October 2018  when a formal extension was agreed.
When his agreement changed to a formal extension the billing arrangements chang ed 
back to being taken partly in advance and partly in arrears. The period in which the 
agreement moved from an informal to a formal extension meant that two billing invoices 
were generated. These overlapped and were debited in the same month.
The adjudicator was satisfied Lex made Mr M aware of the upcoming payments because 
itd provided copies of two invoices itd sent to him in the post.
Mr M disagrees with the adjudicators view. He has a number of concerns  which  for 
simplicity Ive summarised below:-
hes concerned  that Lex cant provide copies of calls he made to them.  He says 
these would substantiate his complaint.
he says the agreements hes alleged to have  entered  into arent true  and why 
would he take out a new lease  three  times on a vehicle that was coming to a close  if 
the conditions  were explained  to him?
he thinks theres a mis-selling breach and Lex is legally obliged to provide the phone 
calls.
he says he never  cancelled his agreement or asked for a new contract  only an 
extension. The extension was agreed over the phone and hes concerned that Lex 
hasnt provided  copies of his conversations  so hes being denied a fair outcome.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr M may feel we are biased in favour  of Lex but its important I reassure him that 
were an independent and impartial service. Ive considered carefully the information both 
parties have provided  to reach my decision.
Ive also noted  Mr Ms concern that Lex hasnt provided copies of call recordings.  In keeping 
with our role as an informal dispute  resolution service the parties to a complaint  dont  always  
Ref: DRN48590202provide all the information wed like. Where this is the case  we reach our decisions based on 
the information we have.  But Id like to reassure Mr M that Im satisfied  Lex has provided  
sufficient information  to enable me to reach a fair outcome on his complaint.
Mr M has raised additional points that didnt form part of his initial complaint. This means Im 
unable to look into whether or not the agreement was mis-sold. If Mr M would like this to be 
investigated he will need to raise this with Lex first and give it the opportunity to investigate. 
I must also explain  that were not a court of law and neither do we have the jurisdiction of 
one. This means  that Im not able to consider Mr Ms complaint that the agreements  hes 
alleged to have  entered into arent  true. Only a court can decide that. Instead Ive looked  at 
whether Lex treated Mr M fairly  based  on the information available to me and this includes 
copies of agreements  that appear  to have been entered into between  Mr M and Lex and 
appear to be signed  by him.
Ive seen a copy  of the original hire agreement entered into by Mr M. It was dated December 
2014. It broadly  provided that the period of hire would start on delivery of the vehicle. The 
agreement was for 36 months with monthly  payments of £278.83.  I can see from Lexs  
records that it started invoicing Mr M in February  2015. The account  was set up so that 
Mr Ms direct debit  would  be taken on the last day of each month to cover  the hire period 
from the 11th day of the month to the 10th day of the next month. This meant his payments 
were partly in advance and partly  in arrears.
In February 2018  Lex told us the contract was amended and a new rental of £209.12 was 
applied. This is consistent with Mr Ms explaining to us that he extended his agreement by 
six months.
Lex explained that after the six month extension Mr M continued to use the vehicle. This 
meant the agreement went  into an informal extension in September 2018. When  a vehicle 
goes into an informal extension Lex explained that billing is changed  to being in arrears  - 
rather than partly in advance and partly  in arrears as was previously the case.
Lex told us that the agreement  remained in an informal  extension until mid October 2018 at 
which point the billing  changed once again to partly in advance and partly in arrears.
Ive looked at the transaction history provided by Lex. I can see that Mr M was billed twice  in 
October 2018. However, Im satisfied that the reason for the overlap in payments is because  
the billing  system changed  from being  an informal extension  where payment is in arrears  
to a formal plan  where payment is partly in arrears  and partly in advance.
I say this because  Ive seen an invoice dated 10 October 2018  for £282.16.  This is stated to 
be for the hire period  11 September 2018 to 10 October 2018. The invoice explains that 
payment is charged  in arrears. Lexs records show this was paid by direct debit on 22 
October 2018.
The second  invoice was dated  11 October  2018 and was for £211.62. It was for the period 
11 October 2018 to 10 November 2018.  Lexs records  show the direct debit for this was 
taken on 23 October 2018 and this represented the formal plan where payment is partly in 
arrears and partly in advance.
Lex accepts that having  two payments coming  out in the same  month  can be challenging. It 
says it will have informed Mr M about  this when his contract was amended. As I dont have 
Ref: DRN48590203copies of call recordings Im not able to establish  what was said at the time. But even without 
copies of the call recordings Im satisfied Mr M was aware of the upcoming payments 
because Ive explained above Ive been  provided  of copies of the invoices that Lex sent to 
him.
I realise Mr M says he never received  these  invoices but as Ive explained above they 
appear to be properly addressed and I cant fairly hold Lex responsible  for problems with the 
post.
Based on the information Ive seen Im satisfied Lex charged Mr M correctly as per the terms 
and conditions of his agreement. Ive been  provided  with copies of invoices sent by Lex in 
which it detailed to Mr M the two payments that would  be taken in October 2018.  It follows  
that I do not require  Lex to do anything  further  in relation to this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4859020