K820x#14Complaint
Mr B says American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background and summary to complaint
Mr B bought the policy in 1999  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  He applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post.
At the time,  Mr B was employed as a coach driver. He has told us he would have been 
entitled to sick pay but he is unable to recall how long this would last for. Mr B also said he 
was entitled to redundancy pay. Mr B has told us about two episodes of illness he suffered 
from in his childhood. 
The policy provided  cover  for life, accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  5% of Mr Bs credit  card balance in the event of 
a successful claim for accident,  sickness or unemployment. For claims under the life section, 
the policy offered  to repay the outstanding  balance,  up to a maximum of £11,000. At the 
time, it cost around 64p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance.  The premium would 
continue to have  to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract interest.  
Amex has told us that the credit card account closed in 2002.
Mr Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Bs representative says:
Amex failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Bs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Amex should  have 
told Mr B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Amex should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr B and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN40274682Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr B disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
Amex has told us the credit agreement  itself concluded in 2002. That means  the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Amex  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
Ref: DRN40274683other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Bs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Amex was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Amex gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Amex gave Mr B sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information  to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and Amex,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr B know  he had a choice?
Amex had to make  it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive been given a copy of the credit card application form completed at the time and this 
includes a section about PPI. In this section there is a box to tick if the PPI is required. On 
Mr Bs form I can see the box has been ticked.  If Mr B didnt want to take out the PPI he 
could have left the box blank. Mr B has signed the overall application form which suggests 
he agreed with everything that had been entered. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr B knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN40274684did Amex provide advice?
Amex says it didnt  provide advice during this sale. Mr B hasnt said if he received advice or 
not. As the application form was completed by post and taking into account  what  Amex  says 
happened when  it sold Mr B the PPI, I dont think that Amex did provide advice.
This means  Amex didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr B. Instead, it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  Mr B to make an informed  
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Amex has provided us with Mr Bs application  form  showing that PPI had been selected. It 
has also provided a copy of the paperwork  it says he wouldve received, including  the policy 
terms and conditions  which  I accept on a balance of probabilities   applied to policies like 
Mr Bs. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr B at the time,  I dont think Amex gave Mr B the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. The application form didnt give Mr B any information about the 
PPI but it referred  him to a leaflet about it. I think its unlikely Mr B would have agreed to take 
it out without at least having a broad understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. And I think its unlikely Mr B would have 
thought it was free.
But it was Amexs responsibility to draw  to Mr Bs attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded Amex did enough to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Mr B, including the need  to maintain premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that Amex  adequately drew 
to his attention  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
So I dont  think Amex  gave Mr B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN40274685-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Bs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Amex ought to have done  either. 
what effect did Amexs  shortcomings have  on Mr B? To what extent  did Mr B suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Amex  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr B. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr B suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not he would have still 
taken out the policy,  had Amex done  things properly. 
Mr B says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr B had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr B chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr B thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr B has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr B ought  reasonably to have known  he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept that Amex didnt make clear the on-going cost information.  So while Mr B didnt know  
some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to 
what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to take 
out the policy on and found  acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any condition, injury, illness,  disease or 
sickness which Mr B knew  about  or should reasonably have been aware of at the 
Ref: DRN40274686insurance start date or for which he had seen or arranged to see a doctor about 
during the six months immediately before the insurance start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr B be unable  to 
do any work. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr B pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B from taking out the policy. 
The evidence about Mr Bs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. Although Mr B says he had suffered from medical  conditions  
before the PPI was taken out and the policy wouldnt have provided cover  had he needed 
time off work because  of these conditions, I dont  think better information about this 
exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. I say this because the conditions Mr B has 
told us about are childhood  illnesses  and it doesnt  appear he had had any ongoing problem 
following these individual episodes when  he was a child.  So I dont think  he would have 
expected to be off work as a result  of these illnesses.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr B 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr B had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do any job it might 
have played into his thinking  about  what he would do. And I accept it may have given him 
pause for thought  although given Mr Bs circumstances, on balance,  I still think he would 
have been interested in taking out the cover. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr B would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his potential employment benefits. And in those circumstances 
I consider it more likely  than not that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mr Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN40274687the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr B would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr B 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Amex should  pay Mr B compensation,  as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr B thinks Amex misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Amexs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why Amex  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Amex gave Mr B, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Amex negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr B and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Amex had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr B in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN40274688my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4027468