K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr H took out the PPI alongside a loan in 2010. He applied online for the loan and the PPI. 
He paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium,  which didnt attract  interest. The policy 
covered Mr H in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with our adjudicators view. Mr H 
mainly complains that he didn't need the policy as he had good sick pay from his employer. 
And he also said that if the costs versus benefits  and the policys  optional nature had been 
made clear, he wouldve declined the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen details  of the online application process that Mr H wouldve gone through  when he 
applied for this loan over the internet. 
I think that Mr H wouldve seen that the PPI was offered as an optional feature, separate 
from the loan. 
I say this because  it seems that he wouldve  been offered Yes and No options  for the PPI 
when completing  the online application.  So I think  that Mr H wouldve seen that it was up to 
him to say if he wanted the PPI or not. And if he hadnt wanted the insurance, then his 
application wouldve  proceeded without  it.
Santander processed his online application and sent Mr H a printed credit agreement. This 
also included a separate section for the PPI with details filled in, which I think probably 
reflected the information that Mr H had put on the online  application. 
The printed  agreement again  described  the cover  as: optional and separate  Personal Loan 
Payment Protection  Insurance. It set out the PPIs cost separately to the cost of the loan. 
I can see that Mr H ticked  the box indicating that he wanted the cover and hes signed to 
confirm this. Mr H also signed the completed application. 
So I think that Santander did enough to make it clear to Mr H that he didnt have to take out 
PPI and that he chose to take it  although  I can completely understand why he might not 
remember this after so long. 
Santander didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr H. So it didnt have to check if the policy  was 
suitable for him. But it still shouldve given Mr H enough information to make a proper 
Ref: DRN48697532decision about whether PPI was right for him. And if it didnt do this, I have to decide  if this 
made any overall difference to Mr H. 
Ive taken into account what Mr H has told us about his circumstances at the time, including  
his sick pay arrangements at work. But the policy paid out for longer than Mr H couldve 
depended on his employer to pay him sick pay  up to 12 months per claim.  
Ive taken into account that there  was a possibility of discretionary  sick pay being paid over 
and above Mr Hs contractual entitlement (which he told us was 6 months). But Im looking at 
what Mr H said his contractual entitlement was  because thats all he could safely  rely on 
when he took out the PPI. Relying on an employer to pay sick pay when it doesnt have to 
isnt as dependable as taking out PPI which guarantees  a monthly  benefit  in the event of a 
successful claim.
And the policy wouldve also protected Mr Hs loan repayments if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.
Although he had some other cover in place, it looks like this provided a different sort of 
benefit and it didnt pay out in all the circumstances that the PPI did. 
So, looked  at overall, I think  that Mr H couldve  benefitted from the PPI. 
The credit agreement set out the cost of the PPI in a clear way, before Mr H ultimately 
confirmed whether he wanted to buy it. So I think he wouldve understood how much it would 
cost. 
Its possible that Santander didnt point out all the main things the policy  didnt cover. But 
Mr H doesnt appear  to have been  affected by any of those things. So I dont think that 
having more information about the policy terms and conditions wouldve put him off taking 
out the PPI. 
On balance, I think Mr H would still have  taken out the policy.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Santander didnt tell 
Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN48697533my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019..
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4869753