K821x#15Complaint
Mr A complains that TSB Bank  Plc has been irresponsible in increasing his overdraft limit.
Background
Mr A has a gambling addiction and he made  TSB aware of this in October 2016. It put a 
restriction on his account to prevent him from borrowing. This worked;  he asked for a loan in
2017 to consolidate his debt, but TSB refused. This restriction  expired in December 2018,
but TSB had failed  to tell him that it was for a 12 month  period.  Mr A wasnt aware that it was 
time limited and he obtained  an overdraft in March 2019.
About 10 days later he complained to TSB that it had allowed him the overdraft. He repaid 
this in April and cancelled  his overdraft facility. However, shortly afterwards he applied  for 
another overdraft  which was approved  and he used the funds for gambling. He contacted  the 
bank again and complained and it reinstated the lending restrictions for another 12 months.
TSB said that it hadnt told him that his original restriction would only last for 12 months, but 
it hadnt told him it would  be permanent. It said that it had reviewed his account  and that 
showed no reason  to refuse his request. It also said that it had advised him in the past to 
change his account or hold a cashpoint card which  would limit his online access, but he had 
not taken up these options.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service and it was considered by one of our investigators 
who recommended  it be upheld in part. She asked TSB why it hadnt placed  an extended 
restriction on the account. It explained that it was unable to do so, but had made alternative 
suggestions to Mr A to limit his access to funds such as a cash  account. It said he had 
rejected those options.
She took the view that while TSB hadnt told Mr A in 2016 that the restriction  would only last 
for 12 months it hadnt had any impact on him until March 2019 when he next applied  for an 
overdraft. Our investigator noted  that when  Mr A complained in late March  2019 TSB didnt 
immediately apply a restriction  on his account and so he was able to apply for another  
overdraft after the earlier one had been  repaid.  It had only applied  a further restriction after
that overdraft had been granted.
She said the bank  has a duty of care to its consumers, especially where a consumer  has let 
it know they are vulnerable and need  assistance.  As such  she would have expected  the 
business to act promptly to take steps  to assist the consumer. And this would have meant  
putting the restrict flag on when it knew Mr A was struggling.
However, she thought  Mr A had had the benefit  of the money  he had spent and she didnt 
think TSB should write off this sum. But she did think it shouldnt  impose  charges or interest  
on him from the time he made his complaint  on 28 March 2019. Mr A didnt agree and said 
the bank was aware of his addiction and hadnt told him the original restriction would only 
last 12 months. The bank didnt agree and said this would allow  Mr A to retain the overdraft 
and not repay it. I issued  provisional decision as follows:
I noted that TSB offered  Mr A assistance  in 2016 and it was agreed a restriction  would be 
placed on his account preventing him from obtaining an overdraft.  I considered that to have 
been a reasonable response. It was clear to me that Mr As addiction was such that he 
would seek to obtain money so he could gamble. What wasnt  clear  was why the bank didnt 
Ref: DRN42381152tell him this was a time limited restriction. In the circumstances I thought  it reasonable for 
him to have  presumed it was permanent unless told otherwise.
Nor did it tell him that it had come  to an end. In effect there was change  to the status  of his 
account, but Mr A was unaware of this. I said I would  have  expected the bank to have 
notified him at the point the restriction expired.
He next sought an overdraft in March 2019 and this was approved. However, he was able to 
repay it and so I didnt  consider he suffered any loss by this being granted. That said,  I 
believed that event caused  him to contact  TSB on 28 March and complain. I presumed  it 
would have on its records from 2016 details of his addiction and this was updated by him in 
his complaint. I thought this would have  allowed  the bank to take action and re-impose the 
restriction or offer some other  means of safeguarding  his account.
However, it didnt do so until 9 May and then only after Mr A had applied  for another 
overdraft which was approved. This meant  the bank allowed him access to money which  it 
knew was driven by his condition.  I saw no reason put forward  by the bank as to why it didnt 
act sooner after his 28 March  complaint.
I could see that in 2016 the bank offered him alternative means by which  his risk of 
accessing funds  could be reduced. He chose not to take those and I appreciated that they 
could have had a detrimental  effect on his financial life, but nonetheless they would have 
given him some protection. That said he was offered the restriction  which worked  for him as 
long as it was in place. Given he had reason to presume it was permanent I didnt think his 
decision was unreasonable.
I said all that was needed to make  this fully effective was for the bank either to put it in place 
permanently or if that wasnt possible to let him know it was temporary  so he could have 
acted before it expired.
Although I was surprised  at the temporary  nature of the restriction,  my main concern  was 
that knowing of Mr As situation TSB didnt act promptly when he complained  on 28 March.  
Some three weeks elapsed before he applied for another overdraft which  was approved.  It 
seemed reasonable to me to have expected some action from the bank within those three  
weeks.
I appreciated Mr A had the benefit  of the money  he had spent, but he did try and prevent 
spending money he didnt have and has acted responsibly when not being driven by his 
addiction. I thought both parties  needed  to take responsibility for the current situation and so 
I considered it reasonable that TSB write off half the money borrowed in April,  which  I 
believed was £1,550.
I explained that this service  wouldnt  usually  ask a business to write off money thats been 
spent. But here, despite  being  fully aware  of Mr As condition, TSB gave him access to 
further lending.  So I thought Mr A asking for the overdraft and then spending  this shouldve 
been a foreseeable consequence of its decision to end the restriction when it did.
I didnt think writing off the interest  and charges until Mr A paid off his overdraft was a 
realistic solution so didnt propose that as part of settling this complaint. However, I 
considered it should  do so for the period  from the granting of the overdraft until the date Mr A 
accepted my final decision I suggested the bank issue a reminder to Mr A a month  before 
Ref: DRN42381153the 12 month restriction came to an end so he could ask for an extension. I also said that the 
bank may be able to offer a more  effective solution  and if so it could  suggest  that to Mr A.
My provisional decision was that TSB Bank Plc write off 50% of the overdraft  granted to Mr A 
in April 2019, refund interest and charges as set out above and agree to issue  a reminder to 
him when  the 12 month restriction on his account  is coming to an end.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB hasnt  responded and Mr A accepted  my provisional decision,  but said he had borrowed 
£3,650 in April and that meant the bank should  forgo £1,825. In the circumstances I have no 
reason to amend my provisional decision and so it stands.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct TSB Bank Plc to write off 50% of 
the overdraft granted to Mr A in April 2019, refund interest and charges for the period from 
the granting of the overdraft until the date Mr A accepts my final decision and to issue a 
reminder to him when  the 12 month restriction on his account is coming  to an end. If the 
bank can offer an alternative  to the 12 month reminder and Mr A agrees to that then I leave it 
open for the bank to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4238115