K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) have  charged  
him for extra  hire unfairly as there was a delay  in collecting the vehicle and he has been 
unfairly charged for a lack of servicing and replacement of the handbook.
background 
Mr N agreed to hire a car on 25 June 2014  for 36 months. Towards the end of the 
agreement Mr N decided not to purchase the car and he took out another agreement for a 
new car. This new car was delayed by several  months. Mr N agreed with MBFS to extend 
the rental period to the end of August 2017. On 23 August Mr N made  arrangements for 
collection of the car with a third party for the first available date on 8 September. Mr N then 
rearranged the collection  to the 15 September to coincide with collection of another car from 
his address and to save him having  to take two days off work. 
The car was collected on this date although Mr N wasnt present. 
MBFS sent Mr N an invoice  for extra hire charges for the period after his agreement ended  
on 31 August 2017. MBFS  also charged Mr N for a missing  handbook an incomplete service  
history and damage charges.
Mr N doesnt think he should pay some of these charges  as he wasnt  responsible  for the 
delay in handing the car back as this was because his new car wasnt  ready.  He says he 
shouldnt have to pay for a service during this time. He says he was never told that the 
handbook was required and he had it available the next day but the car had already gone to 
auction.
Following Mr Ns complaint MBFS agreed to reduce the outstanding excess hire charges by 
£201.89 to reflect that the first available collection date was 8 September  but said that the 
remainder of the charges were fair and reasonable.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that MBFS hadnt  done anything 
wrong and had acted fairly in the circumstances. He thought that MBFS wasnt  responsible  
for the delay  in providing the new car and Mr N should have made  sure the car was serviced 
and the handbook was returned.
Mr N didnt agree and replied to say in summary  that it was not his fault that the third party 
collection company  didnt make the position  clear  regarding the handbook and it was unfair 
of him to be charged  the excess hire for attempting to have both cars collected at the same 
time. Mr N didnt  think it was his responsibility to get the service done  given the delay in 
supplying the new car and the charges were all excessive in the circumstances. 
    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr N was frustrated  by the information he was given before collecting 
his car and why he doesnt feel he should have to pay the charges. This service doesnt 
punish businesses  for mistakes but looks at what it would be fair and reasonable to expect. 
Ref: DRN49324022In addition, I can only look at what MBFS, as the finance company for Mr Ns returned  car, is 
responsible for.  
Mr N was aware of the process at the end of his agreement  to arrange collection of the car. 
The third party collection company was able to provide a date of 8 September but Mr N 
chose to re-arrange that to a later date for his convenience. I understand why he did that and 
I make  no criticism of him. It would have been helpful if the third party had clearly explained 
that this would result in an excess charge  but I cant comment  on the third party processes 
or what Mr N was or wasnt told by them. It is set out in Mr Ns agreement that failure to 
return the car on the agreed date may result in further charges and so I cant  say that MBFS 
is wrong to have charged him. MBFS has only charged for the period between 8 and 15 
September as it agreed to remove the earlier charges. I think this is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. The car was returned after it should have been and MBFS should be 
able to recover their losses for this.
Mr N has been charged £379 for incomplete  servicing and a missing  handbook. Dealing first 
with the service, Mr N knew that it was due but didnt want  to pay for it as he would not 
recover this cost and it was because there was a delay in supplying his new car. I can 
understand why he feels  that this is all part of the same problem with Mercedes but I cant  
agree that the two are connected. Mr N continued  to have use of the car until the end of 
August 2017.  The service  was due during that month and Mr N took a decision not to have it 
carried out. MBFS went on to sell the car without a full service  history and under the terms of 
the agreement  signed by Mr N the business  is entitled to charge for an incomplete service 
history to reflect the loss when  the car is sold.
I can appreciate why Mr N thinks that the service charge  should  be waived as there  was a 
delay in supplying  the new car. But because Mr N chose  to keep the car and keep driving  it I 
think it is only fair that the responsibility for the maintenance and servicing  remained with him 
during that period. MBFS are not responsible for the supply of the new car and had no 
control over it even though they are part of the Mercedes group of companies. I think that Mr 
N was still bound by his obligations  under the agreement  with MBFS regardless of the 
position with the new car. So it follows that I think this charge is reasonable.
Mr N is also unhappy about the charge for the missing handbook. He says that the third 
party collection company  didnt make it clear  that this should  be included.  As I said before, I 
cant comment on what Mr N was told by that company. I can see that the agreement  that 
was signed by Mr N makes reference to the vehicle  standards  and what  is expected when a 
car is returned at the end of an agreement. Those standards list all of the items  that are 
required to be returned with the car and include the handbook as well as other removable 
items like the parcel shelf and sat nav SD cards.  
I understand that Mr N wasnt there when the car was collected and the handbook couldnt 
be located at the time. I sympathise with Mr N that the car was auctioned so quickly and he 
didnt have time to return this. However, I cant say that MBFS  was wrong to charge him for it 
as the car was returned without it and it is made  clear in the standards  that it is required.
Mr N does not appear to be challenging the excess mileage or damage charges but again, 
as they were applied  in line with the terms of the agreement signed  by Mr N I cant say they 
are unfair.
I appreciate that Mr N will be disappointed with my decision and I do sympathise with his 
strength of feeling  on these charges. But I can only look at whether they have been  applied 
Ref: DRN49324023fairly and in line with the agreement signed by Mr N. In the circumstances I cant ask MBFS 
to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4932402