K821x#15complaint
Ms L complains that the sofa she bought using her credit card with Barclays  Bank UK PLC 
(BB) isnt of satisfactory quality.
background
Ms L says she bought  the sofa in 2014. She says she contacted the retailer  in 2017 about a 
fault that had developed and it attempted a repair, but the problem recurred shortly 
afterwards. She says the retailer offered  to repair the sofa again, but it said the parts  needed 
would take around  three months  to obtain. So, it said it would alternatively offer her a partial 
refund of around  one third of the price shed  paid for the sofa.
Ms L also says she requested a full refund from BB and it said she would need to obtain an 
experts report confirming  the cause of the fault to enable it to consider her claim. She says 
shes now obtained a report  and she thinks it confirms the fault was the result of a 
manufacturing defect.  But she says BB disagrees  and it still wont give her a full refund of the 
price she paid for the sofa.   
Our investigator thought Ms Ls complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  She said the experts  report 
suggests a middle  leg or a more adequate spring  rail wouldve been ideal, but it doesnt say 
what those changes wouldve done long term to the sofa. So, she said she didnt think there 
was enough information to suggest there  was a manufacturing fault that made  the sofa of 
unsatisfactory quality.  
Ms L disagreed with the investigators conclusions. She said the experts report  says the 
sofa shouldve  been made to last at least the 10 years under the manufacturers warranty.  
And she said the damage is clearly not her fault, so BB should give her a full refund.  
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
I recently issued my provisional  findings on this complaint. I said I could see the expert  found 
that the structure of the seat frame had broken on the left hand front return chaise and the 
spring rail had snapped in half. And I could see the expert concluded the span  of the frame  
on the lounger sofa shouldve ideally had a middle  leg to support the weight or a more 
adequate spring  rail to offer a lifetime warranty. 
I could also see BB had acknowledged the experts report  confirms  a fault with the seat 
frame and spring rail, but it didnt agree it confirms  a manufacturing  fault. And I could see BB 
felt the fact that the report concluded the sofa shouldve ideally had a middle leg to support 
the weight or a more adequate rail meant  the report was only confirming  what  couldve made 
the product better, rather than that it was an actual manufacturer fault.
I acknowledged the independent  expert  hadnt  stated  in express terms that the problem with    
Ms Ls sofa is the result of a manufacturing  defect. But I hadnt seen any information 
indicating any other likely  cause of this issue. And I said the report  undoubtedly  identifies 
something that can reasonably be considered as a potential weakness  in the construction of 
the frame of the sofa.
I thought it was also worth bearing in mind that this was an expensive item of furniture that 
was sold with a 10 year guarantee, albeit not the lifetime guarantee Ms L had understood to 
apply. And taking everything  Id seen into account,  I was minded to conclude its more likely 
Ref: DRN49324522than not that the fault Ms Ls experienced with her sofa was the result of an inherent defect 
arising out of the manufacturing  process. And that this means that the sofa wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her. 
So, I was minded to uphold  Ms Ls complaint on this basis and to require BB to reimburse 
the full price she paid for the sofa.  I was also minded  to require it to make arrangements to 
collect the sofa from Ms L at no cost to her.  
This was different  from the investigators  opinion. So, I invited  both parties to comment and 
provide any additional evidence for me to consider. 
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision BB said as the goods were  covered by a 10 year 
warranty it was prepared  to offer an increased refund of £2,640.05  of the £3,771.50 
purchase cost. It said this was calculated  from Ms L having use of the sofa for three years,  
meaning shed  been deprived  of the use of it for a further expected seven years. And it said 
to refund the full amount would benefit Ms L in respect of the fact that she wouldve had the 
use of the furniture at no cost for three years.
Ive noted BBs comments.  However,  I think its important to bear in mind  that this situations 
arisen through no fault of Ms L. And theres  every  indication she wouldve hoped and 
expected to keep her sofa for many more years. But instead she now faces the 
inconvenience of needing to replace it far sooner than couldve reasonably been anticipated, 
due to what BB now appears to acknowledge to have been  a manufacturing defect.
Its also worth noting Ms Ls additionally  had the inconvenience arising from an unsuccessful  
previous attempt to repair  the defect, together with the further distress and inconvenience 
flowing from the protracted nature of her complaint about this matter.
So, taking everything  Ive seen into account,  I think its fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances for me to require BB to reimburse the full price Ms L paid for the sofa and to 
make arrangements  to collect it at no cost to her.
my final decision
I uphold Ms Ls complaint  against Barclays Bank UK PLC. It must reimburse the full price 
she paid for her sofa and it must make arrangements  to collect the sofa from Ms L at no cost 
to her.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Ref: DRN49324523Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN49324524copy  of my provisional  decision
complaint
Ms L complains that the sofa she bought using her credit card with Barclays  Bank UK PLC (BB) isnt 
of satisfactory quality.
background
Ms L says she bought the sofa in 2014. She says she contacted the retailer  in 2017 about a fault that 
had developed and it attempted a repair, but the problem  recurred shortly afterwards. She says the 
retailer offered  to repair the sofa again, but it said the parts needed would take around three months 
to obtain. So, it said it would alternatively  offer her a partial refund of around one third of the price  
shed paid for the sofa.
Ms L also says she requested a full refund from BB and it said she would  need to obtain an experts 
report confirming the cause of the fault to enable  it to consider her claim.  She says shes now 
obtained a report and she thinks it confirms the fault was the result of a manufacturing  defect.  But she 
says BB disagrees and it still wont  give her a full refund of the price she paid for the sofa.    
Our investigator thought Ms Ls complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said the experts  report  suggests 
a middle leg or a more  adequate spring  rail wouldve been ideal, but it doesnt say what  those 
changes wouldve  done long term to the sofa. So, she said she didnt think  there was enough 
information to suggest there was a manufacturing fault that made the sofa of unsatisfactory quality. 
Ms L disagreed with the investigators conclusions.  She said the experts report says the sofa 
shouldve been made to last at least the 10 years under the manufacturers warranty. And she said 
the damage is clearly not her fault,  so BB should give her a full refund.  
So, the matters been referred  to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im currently  minded to uphold  Ms Ls complaint and to require BB to refund  the full purchase price 
she paid for her sofa. Ill explain why.
I see the sofa was of a premium brand with a purchase price of more than £5,000 and I also see it 
was sold with a 10 year warranty. Ms L bought the sofa using her credit card with BB, so it was 
responsible for ensuring  the sofa was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her.
When Ms L complained  to BB about the fault her sofa had developed, I think  it was reasonable for BB 
to require  her to obtain an independent  experts report before considering the matter further. And Im 
pleased to note its now reimbursed the cost of the experts  report she obtained. I see the expert 
found that the structure of the seat frame  had broken on the left hand front return  chaise and the 
spring rail had snapped in half. I also see the expert  concluded the span of the frame on the lounger 
sofa shouldve ideally had a middle leg to support the weight or a more adequate spring rail to offer a 
lifetime warranty.  
I see BB acknowledged the experts report confirms a fault with the seat frame  and spring  rail, but it 
didnt agree  it confirms a manufacturing fault. And I see BB felt the fact that the report concluded the 
sofa shouldve ideally had a middle  leg to support  the weight or a more adequate  rail meant the 
Ref: DRN49324525report was only confirming what couldve made the product better,  rather than that it was an actual 
manufacturer fault.
I acknowledge the independent  expert hasnt  stated in express terms that the problem  with    Ms Ls 
sofa is the result  of a manufacturing defect. But I havent seen any information indicating any other 
likely cause of this issue. And the report undoubtedly identifies something that can reasonably be 
considered as a potential weakness in the construction of the frame of the sofa. I think  its also worth 
bearing in mind that this was an expensive item of furniture that was sold with a 10 year guarantee, 
albeit not the lifetime  guarantee Ms L had understood  to apply.  And taking  everything Ive seen into 
account, Im minded to conclude its more likely  than not that the fault Ms Ls experienced with her 
sofa is the result  of an inherent defect arising out of the manufacturing process. And this means that 
the sofa wasnt of satisfactory quality when  it was supplied to her. 
So, Im minded to uphold  Ms Ls complaint on this basis and to require BB to reimburse the full price  
she paid for the sofa. Im also minded to require it to make arrangements to collect the sofa from Ms L 
at no cost to her.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above but subject to both parties  responses to this provisional decision Im 
currently minded  to uphold Ms Ls complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.  Im minded to require  it 
to refund the full purchase price she paid for her sofa and to make arrangements  to collect  it from Ms 
L at no cost to her.  
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4932452