K821x#15complaint
Mr B was involved  in a road traffic  accident with another motorist. He has a car insurance 
policy with Equity Red Star Insurance which is part of The Society of Lloyds. For the sake  of 
ease, Ive referred to Lloyds throughout this decision. Mr B has complained about the 
service he received from Lloyds on his claim.  He has said there were lengthy  delays and 
Lloyds refused to pay for all the repairs.
background
In July 2018, Mr B was involved in a road traffic  accident with another  motorist. Liability  was 
disputed. The extent of the damage  attributable to the accident has also been  disputed.  Mr B 
informed Lloyds about the accident. The car had suffered some structural damage and a 
warning light on the dashboard  indicated a fault. Mr Bs car was moved to several  different 
garages and inspected three times.  Hes told us there were over fifty telephone calls made to 
Lloyds by him and his representative over a three-month period, in an attempt to resolve the 
issues. Mr B says he also made it clear he wanted  a specialist repairer to inspect and repair  
his car. He also told us the accident  wasnt his fault. So, he thinks  Lloyds  should  have 
resolved the issue  of liability  swiftly.
Mr B says he was told that unless  he agreed to have  his vehicle  repaired  at Lloyds 
approved repairers,  hed be liable to pay a larger excess. So, he agreed to this despite not 
being happy about it. Several weeks later,  following  repair  of the car, Lloyds approved  
repairers said the warning  light appearing on the dashboard  wasnt connected to the 
accident. Mr B disagreed.  Eventually, Lloyds agreed for the car to taken to Mr Bs garage for 
a further inspection.
Following the re-inspection, Mr Bs garage said the appearance  of the warning  light was 
connected to the accident. And further  work  was needed. This was authorised by Lloyds. 
But after the car was returned,  warning lights still appeared on the dashboard. So, another 
inspection was required. After this inspection,  Lloyds repairers said they didnt believe the 
warning lights were  linked to the accident and arranged for an independent engineer  to 
investigate. The independent engineer concluded  that these faults werent  related to the 
accident. So, Lloyds  refused to fix these, and Mr B paid for these repairs himself.
Mr B also told us he was also unhappy  that liability might be agreed on a split liability basis .
Mr B complained to Lloyds. After some delays,  Lloyds sent its final response  letter  in April 
2019. They  acknowledged theyd refused to pay for all of the repairs to Mr Bs car because  
they thought some werent related to the accident. But, in the light of the conflicting views,  
they agreed to instruct  another  independent engineer for a final opinion. And after the final 
inspection was completed, Lloyds agreed  to cover the costs of the repairs  which  Mr B had 
already paid for. And they also said theyd waive Mr Bs whole excess.  This comprised £250 
standard excess, together with a further £500  late notification excess, a total of £750  waived. 
In respect of compensation for the standard of service, Lloyds made a further offer, in 
addition to what had already been  offered. This brought the total compensation theyd paid 
for distress and inconvenience  to £400.  So, total compensation  including  all Mr Bs excess 
amounted to £1,150.
On the question of liability,  this originally  remained outstanding but, Lloyds  said, was for 
others to judge and that this process was ongoing. They also said Mr B had been  provided 
with a hire vehicle until his own car had been  returned to him. And Lloyds said that, overall, 
this was a fair and reasonable offer.
Ref: DRN42400472In May 2019, Mr B remained unhappy  and complained to us. Our investigator thought that 
Lloyds offer was fair and that they didnt need  to do any more. He noted that Lloyds had 
also provided a hire car for the entirety  of Mr Bs claim. And he said he thought the offer of 
£400 in compensation and the waived excess did reasonably reflect  the distress and 
inconvenience Lloyds  had caused  Mr B.
Mr B felt that the compensation offered didnt reflect the amount of time and effort he'd put 
into his claim. And he thought the time taken  to resolve liability was unnecessarily  lengthy.  
So, because Mr B didnt  agree,  the case has been sent to me for a decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Poor Service
Following the accident  in July 2018, Mr B spent a great deal of time and multiple attempts to 
make substantive contact  with Lloyds, in trying to resolve his claim. I think much of this 
delay on Lloyds part should have been  easily avoidable because both Mr B and his 
representative chased up Lloyds on some fifty occasions over a three-month  period. So, I 
think Lloyds handling  of his claim amounted to very poor customer  service.  In November, 
Lloyds made an offer of compensation and waived Mr Bs excess  in recognition of the poor 
service theyd provided. Further delays, between December 2018 and the second 
independent inspection which followed the final response letter in April 2019, related  to 
discussions over the cause of the faults with Mr Bs car, which Lloyds had accepted  were 
because they disputed an item they later accepted. Besides waiving the excess,  Lloyds 
finally offered £400 in compensation for the delays in service,  amounting  in total to £1,150 .
But Im not sure this is fair and reasonable. Because I think  applying the late notification  
excess in the first place  was unfair.  The accident took place on a Saturday  and Mr B 
reported it to his brokers first thing  on Monday  morning. And, as there  was no prejudice  
here, I dont  think the late notification excess  should  have been  charged at all. So, I dont 
think its fair that Lloyds  include  it as part of Mr Bs compensation package. And, setting this 
item aside,  it would mean that Mr Bs total compensation was only £250 for the excess  plus 
£400 for distress  and inconvenience, which is £650.
So, because I think Lloyds should  waive the late notification excess  altogether and not 
include it in their compensation  package,  I dont  think this amount is sufficient.
Delays in Repairs
There were lengthy delays in completing  repairs to Mr Bs car. But this wasnt  because 
nothing was being done, but because there were a number of inspections,  and a conflict  of 
opinion between two sets of expert professionals. And this took time. And after Lloyds final 
response letter of April 2019, when they instructed  a second independent engineer  to carry 
out a final inspection, Lloyds eventually agreed  to cover the costs of repairs to Mr Bs car.
Ref: DRN42400473But in the final inspection report,  the forensic engineer  said that although  parts had been 
replaced that the diagnostics identified as faulty,  no investigation into the exact nature of the 
fault/failure had ever been undertaken. And by the time the engineer  was able to examine Mr 
Bs car, it was no longer  possible  to identify the exact fault with the components because 
theyd been removed and were no longer available for inspection.
The engineer concluded:  the evidence seen would lead me to conclude  that the 
components were in all probability  damaged  in the accident. The fact that the repairer 
images clearly show a fault with the AdBlue system would also support a conclusion  that the 
components sustained damage in the accident.
So, I think from this that Lloyds in-house  and appointed engineers got it wrong.  And this 
seems quite a straightforward diagnostic  exercise to me. So, Lloyds wouldnt accept the first 
fault was due to the accident,  but then did and this caused a delay and then after the final 
response letter, they admitted they should  pay for the additional sensor and connection 
faults.
And if theyd  got it right in the first place, a great deal of the delays with repairs  and Mr Bs 
claim wouldnt have happened at all. So, I think Mr B is owed compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  for these additional delays and Lloyds refusal  to accept these issues  
were caused  by their not accepting them in the first place.
Im conscious Mr B wasnt left without  a vehicle as Lloyds provided him with a courtesy car 
throughout the entirety of the claim, which I think is reasonable.  But I think a further £350 in 
compensation would be fair and reasonable here.
Liability
From looking  at the file, it wasnt originally  clear whether liability for Mr Bs accident had 
been established or not.
But Lloyds has recently confirmed that following a third party offer in September 2018, a 
without prejudice  payment  was made  which included the third partys  total loss, besides hire 
charges and recovery storage. Lloyds have said this offer was made to mitigate the claim 
and increasing  costs. And that no further payments were  made  to the third party.  The claim 
was closed in June 2020 with Mr Bs No Claims Bonus  (NCB) discount  allowed.
As Mr Bs NCB remains intact, I wont be doing  anything further here.
the response to my provisional  decision
Mr B responded raising a number  of points. He said he wasnt happy with the level of 
compensation and went  on to clarify  further. He said the problem with the warning light 
system had been  very serious and had required urgent attention. He said the waiving of his 
excess was of no extra benefit to him. He also pointed out the months-long delay in 
refunding his NCB discount and the additional charge on his premium which, even then,  only 
happened after several calls chasing this. He said this was especially poor given Lloyds 
explanation of the third party offer being as far back as September 2018.
So, he didnt  think compensation of £750 reasonably reflected the stress,  time and effort  he 
had experienced.
Ref: DRN42400474Lloyds also didnt agree  with my decision. In particular, they strongly disagreed  with my 
intention to award a further £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience,  which  they 
said was excessive, and they argued  against this.
They explained their underwriters had advised that as Mr Bs claim wasnt reported  until after 
the 48-hour period, his excess was applicable. Yet it had been waived in full. They pointed 
out Mr B had been provided with a courtesy  car throughout  the entirety of the claim. And 
they said theyd  been unable to locate evidence of Mr B and his representative chasing up 
his claim on some fifty occasions, as claimed.
They also said it wasnt fair to penalise Lloyds for the ongoing delays to repairs  which post-
dated their final response letter, because, they said,  this wasnt part of the original complaint 
raised. And that it was common practice  to obtain  a third opinion when two conflicting 
professional reports  are provided  from different parties  as they did - and it wouldnt have 
been fair to just accept one report over the other. So, they hadnt  been responsible for the 
additional delays.  
And they said they thought their offer to Mr B as set out in their final response letter was fair.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
In terms of Mr B saying the waiving of his excess was of no additional  benefit  to him, my 
point was that waiving it shouldnt have  been  included in Lloyds compensation package. 
Because to do so didnt actively constitute  a benefit  as Mr B said. Otherwise, I had already 
taken into account  the further points he made in my provisional decision.
In terms of Lloyds response, I maintain that even if Mr B reported marginally outside  the 48-
hour period, one of those days was a Sunday, and Lloyds wasnt  prejudiced by him going 
slightly over the deadline.  And Ive no reason to disbelieve Mr Bs account of the multiple 
occasions that he and his representative spent chasing his case  up. And I dont disagree 
with the good practice  of obtaining a third opinion when two professional  reports conflict  as 
Lloyds did. But I cant agree that Lloyds  held no responsibility here. The ongoing delay was 
part and parcel of the original delay. Because was it Lloyds approved  repairers who made  
the wrong call (twice) in the first place, I think Lloyds must take responsibility for these 
delays. Again, some of the other points raised  were also ones  Id already considered.
In terms of both parties taking issue with the level of compensation, I think that £750 in 
compensation is fair because I think Lloydss repairers erred  in the first place which,  
ultimately, was the cause  of the ongoing  delays. And Mr B has told us how protracted and 
frustrating the process was. And from my experience, I think £750  in total for distress and 
inconvenience is fair.
So, I see no reason  to depart from the findings Ive already reached in my provisional 
decision. And, my final decision  remains the same.
Ref: DRN42400475my final decision
For the above reasons, my final decision is that this complaint should be upheld  and I direct 
that the Society of Lloyds should:
not charge  Mr Bs late notification excess or include it in his compensation package;
pay his excess of £250;
pay £400 for distress  and inconvenience  for poor service;  and
pay a further £350  for distress and inconvenience for diagnostic errors and delays.
I note Lloyds confirmed  the £400  and settlement of costs were  paid to Mr B in May 2019.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 October  2020.
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4240047