K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that that a self-study  programme (course) he signed up for was mis-sold to 
him. And that the fixed sum loan agreement (loan agreement) he entered into with 
Caledonian Consumer  Finance Ltd to finance  the course was unaffordable.
Mr L is represented in his complaint by his mother. But for ease I will refer to any 
submissions made by Mr Ls mother as if they had been made  by Mr L himself.
background
In May 2018  Mr L entered into a loan agreement to finance an electrician  course with a 
company that I will call N. The cost of the course  was £7,800,  £7,740 of which was 
financed.
Under the terms of the loan agreement Mr L undertook,  everything  else being equal,  to make 
43 monthly payments  of £180  making a total sum repayable under the loan agreement of 
£7,740 at an APR of 0%.
In December 2018 Mr L contacted Caledonian to say that he believed the course had been 
mis-sold and that the loan agreement he had entered  into was unaffordable.
In January 2019 Caledonian  issued Mr L with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of 
this FRL Caledonian said it didnt believe the course  had been  misrepresented  by N, or that 
there had been  any breach of contract  by it. It also said that it was satisfied that Mr L was 
aware, or should  have been  aware, that he was entering into a loan agreement to fund the 
course and it saw no reason to write off the outstanding balance  in respect of it. However, it 
said it was prepared to work with Mr L to come to an affordable  payment arrangement to 
address the arrears and his monthly payments going forward.
Unhappy with Caledonians FRL Mr L referred  his complaint to our service.
Mr Ls complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that it shouldnt  
be upheld. In summary she said she was satisfied that:
there had been no misrepresentation  on the part of N in respect of the course
there had been no breach of contract  on the part of N in respect of the course
Caledonian had carried  out appropriate and proportionate checks so did nothing  
wrong in granting  the finance  that it did
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators  conclusion,  so his complaint  has been passed  to me 
for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN49549792In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time. This 
includes, amongst  other things, having regard to Caledonians regulatory  obligations  under  
the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
CONC says that lenders  need to carry out checks to ensure  any lending it gives  is affordable 
and sustainable  for the borrower.  This is often referred to as an affordability  check.  These 
checks need to be proportionate to the situation. In deciding what is proportionate  lenders 
ought to have regard to, but not restricted to, the following:
The size and duration of the credit; 
The overall cost of the borrowing  and the size of the repayments; and 
The borrowers personal circumstances. 
To assess whether  Mr L could sustainably afford  to repay the credit,  Caledonian ran a credit 
check, obtained details of Mr Ls income  and expenditure  and obtained a copy  of his 
April 2018 bank statement.
Now Ive reviewed the results of Caledonians credit  check. This showed Mr L had four 
active accounts  a current account,  two phone contracts and a hire purchase  contract  for a 
car  all of which  had been well  managed. It also showed Mr Ls level of indebtedness 
stood at approximately £12,500  all of which was in respect  of his hire purchase  contract  for 
a car.
Ive also reviewed the information Caledonian  said it obtained in respect of Mr Ls income 
and expenditure,  information which as I understand it isnt in dispute, as well as the content 
of Mr Ls April 2018 bank  statement.  And in my view neither the income  and expenditure 
information, or the content of Mr Ls April 2018 bank statement, should have caused  
Caledonian any concern or caused it to make  further  underwriting  enquiries.
Given what I say above, and the terms of the credit  being granted (size,  duration, overall 
cost and the size of the repayments), Im satisfied  that Caledonian carried  out a 
proportionate assessment  of Mr Ls ability to sustainably repay and therefore  its lending 
wasnt irresponsible.
I can see that shortly after taking the credit Mr L fell into financial difficulties. But based on 
what both parties have said and submitted I cant see that Caledonian has done anything 
other than treat Mr L fairly and with forbearance  and due consideration, in line with what I 
would expect it to do.
I will now go on to consider whether, in my view, there was any misrepresentation of the 
course by N or a breach  of contract by N in its supply.
When someone buys goods or services using the type of credit Caledonian has provided in 
this case, they can make  a claim against  the lender for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation made by the supplier  of the goods or services,  so long as certain 
conditions are met. T
This consumer protection is provided by Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. More  
generally, where credit of this type is sold by a credit broker  then the lender  is responsible  
for incorrect information given by the broker about the credit  and the underlying purchase. 
Ref: DRN49549793This is because, due to Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, the broker  is treated as 
acting as the lenders  agent. What this means  in this case, is that Mr L can complain to 
Caledonian if N failed  to honour the terms of its agreement with him or gave him incorrect 
information (or made incorrect statements) about  the course or the financial arrangements. 
Mr L says the content of the course was inadequate, the qualifications he would get from 
completing it wouldnt secure him a job and that the course was simply not worth  completing.
Caledonian concluded in its FRL that there had been no breach of contract by N. And having 
considered what  all the parties  have said and submitted in this respect and given that Mr L 
didnt complete the course  opting instead  to switch to another  one after about  four months 
 I dont disagree. For the sake of completeness, I would  also add that Ive seen insufficient 
evidence to conclude  that Mr L wasnt a suitable candidate for the course  or that being  
unable to contact  his tutor on a number of occasions, if indeed that is what  happened,  
constitutes  in itself  a breach of contract.
Caledonian concluded in its FRL that there had been no misrepresentation by N. And having  
considered what  all the parties  have said and submitted in this respect, I dont disagree.  
Now I can see that Mr L says that N represented to him that on successful  completion  of the 
course he would be able to trade as a Qualified Electrician but this isnt correct. In support 
of this submission Mr L directed me to a number of websites.
Ive looked at these websites and in particular considered what  one of them says about what  
is required to become a qualified  electrician, this (after the completion of Level 3 Diploma  in 
Electrical Installations) being:
a need to be working in the industry
the passing of Level  3 NVQ  Diploma  in Installing Electrotechnical Systems and 
Equipment (Buildings, Structures and the Environment)
the passing of AM2
Ive looked at how N represents its course  in its plan of the course booklet. And having 
done so I think  it could and should have been  clear  to Mr L that in order to become a 
qualified electrician he would need to do the above and N wasnt making a representation 
that the completion of its 33 modules and 9 weeks in-centre practical training and 
assessment, on its own, would be enough  for Mr L to become a qualified  electrician.
I accept I cant  say for certain  what was discussed between N and Mr L prior to him agreeing  
to sign up for the course. But given what both parties have  said and submitted and given  
what the course booklet says (which Im satisfied was left with Mr L) on the balance of 
probabilities Im not persuaded Mr L was told that the completion  of its 33 modules and 9 
weeks in-centre practical training  and assessment, on its own, would be enough  for him to 
become a qualified electrician.
So in summary,  and I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr L, I find that there 
has been no misrepresentation  of the course, no breach of the underlying  contract and that 
Caledonians lending wasnt irresponsible.
Ref: DRN49549794my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. However, I would remind  Caledonian 
Consumer Finance Ltd of its responsibilities  to continue to treat Mr L fairly  and with 
forbearance and due consideration if he is still in financial  difficulties.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021 .
Peter Cook
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4954979