K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that The Royal London Mutual  Insurance Society Limited  declined  a claim 
under his personal income protection policy.
background
Mr M had an income protection policy, the purpose  of which  was to pay Mr M a monthly 
benefit if he became  incapacitated and unable to work. The policy was sold to Mr M via an 
Independent Financial Adviser (IFA) in early 2018.
In May 2018, Mr M was signed off work  by his GP with work related stress and anxiety. He 
subsequently made  a claim on his policy. 
After reviewing Mr Ms medical records, Royal London concluded that Mr M shouldve  told 
them about  his history of mental health problems.  It said if he had done so, it wouldve 
applied an exclusion to the policy to the effect  that a claim wouldnt  be paid if its directly or 
indirectly because  of any mental  or nervous disorder, including stress and anxiety. It said it 
would now add this exclusion  retrospectively and for that reason it declined the claim. It 
offered to keep the policy in place with the added exclusion  or, if Mr M preferred, to cancel 
the policy and refund the premiums paid.  Mr M chose  the latter option. 
Mr M didnt  agree with Royal Londons decision to add the exclusion and decline the claim, 
so appealed it. After considering his comments,  Royal London still declined the claim. Mr M 
was unhappy  with that so complained to us. 
Our investigator didnt  think Royal London had done  anything  wrong  by declining  Mr Ms 
claim, so didnt uphold it. Mr M disagreed and said he answered the questions he was asked 
at the point of sale accurately and he is being  discriminated against. His complaint has now 
been passed to me to look at everything  afresh and to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it.
The policy says: 
We might also not pay or may stop paying  your claim if: 
 you or the person covered didnt answer  the questions on your application  fully, honestly 
and to the best of your or their knowledge  and ability
Im not a medical  expert  so Ive relied on the medical evidence available  to me and it 
appears that Mr M had long term mental health issues  prior to taking out the policy. 
Specifically, there are a number of references to him suffering from anxiety, stress  and 
depression. 
I have seen a copy of the completed application form Royal  London sent to Mr M to agree 
and sign. There are a number of questions which Mr M had already answered about  his 
health including:
Ref: DRN49848722Apart from anything youve already told us about, during the last 5 years have you had or do 
you currently have, any of the following: Anxiety,  depression, stress or mental illness?
Mr M answered no to this question.
I think that question  is clear. Taking  into account  the medical evidence, I also think Royal 
London has fairly concluded  that this question has been answered carelessly  it shouldve 
been answered: yes. Ive seen  Royal  Londons underwriting guidance, and if the question 
had been answered in that way, Im satisfied Royal London wouldve added an exclusion to 
his policy  to not cover any claim relating to a mental  health disorder  particularly given 
Mr Ms medical history. 
So, all in all, I think it was fair and reasonable for Royal London to apply that exclusion 
retrospectively and decline the claim based on the reason Mr M was off work, and the 
medical evidence  it had.
Mr M has said he answered all the questions the IFA asked him at the point of sale honestly. 
As this complaint  is about Royal London, Im unable to comment  on that discussion and 
those concerns would  need to be directed to the IFA to consider in the first instance. 
However, Im satisfied Royal London  reasonably  relied on the information  it was given in the 
completed application form. That form was sent to Mr M to check  and sign confirming 
everything was accurate,  which  he did.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Ms comments including what he says about  being 
discriminated because of his mental health. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I think 
Royal London has acted  fairly and reasonably and hasnt done anything  wrong by applying 
the exclusion and declining the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4984872