K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about how HSBC UK Bank  Plc dealt with their attempt to obtain a 
refund following payments  to a company.
background 
Mr and Mrs M made two payments to a company I will call E for holiday club membership. 
The payments were £826 by debit card on 21 April 2017 and £7,425 by bank transfer the 
same month. Mr and Mrs M say they were mis-sold the membership and its product was 
mis-represented. They also complain that they didnt  receive  a cooling off period following 
the purchase and the product wasnt as sold. Mr and Mrs M asked HSBC to raise a 
chargeback and complain  that wasnt carried out. They  would like a full refund of the 
payments.
HSBC says it accepts it didnt deal with Mr and Mrs Ms request as it should have. Its 
apologised and paid £50 compensation. It says it couldnt raise  a chargeback as it was 
brought too late for it to process and says the bank transfer payment is not covered by a 
chargeback and that it was authorised. HSBC says it will increase its compensation offer to 
£150 as it accepts it didnt explain that as it should have.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint  to us and our adjudicator  upheld  it in part. He thought 
HSBC hadnt explained matters appropriately  to Mr and Mrs M and agreed that the customer 
service wasnt  as it should have been.  He agreed that the compensation offer should be 
increased to £150.
The adjudicator didnt think HSBC had made a mistake in respect  of the main  complaint. He 
thought Mr and Mrs M had brought their complaint  outside of the time limits of 120 days  set 
by the card provider for raising a chargeback. And thought the transfer payment was not 
covered by the chargeback rules  and had been authorised by Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M accept  the compensation offer but do not accept the decision about the 
payments. They  say the membership was bought in good faith and did not realise it was not 
as promised until they tried to use it. They  also say that by paying  with a debit card that they 
should be protected and so should receive  their money back.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have come  to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator and for the same  reasons. I realise  Mr and Mrs M will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly they feel about  whats  happened. 
And whilst I accept that they were the victims of E and its methods  that doesnt  mean  that I 
think that HSBC has made a mistake or acted unfairly.
There is no real dispute  here that HSBC should  have  provided more information to Mr and 
Mrs M in its final response letter and explained in more  detail  why it couldnt help them. But 
Im satisfied HSBC has apologised for that and the way in which  it dealt with the complaint. 
Im satisfied its revised offer of £150  in total compensation is fair and reasonable and I can 
see that Mr and Mrs M also agree  with that.
There are two parts to the main  complaint  as two payments were made to E using different 
methods. The payment  by debit card is covered under  the chargeback scheme  and I can 
Ref: DRN40521322see that the adjudicator has explained that the scheme rules are set by the debit card 
provider and not as in the case HSBC. Those rules state that a chargeback  is not a right and 
has no guarantee of success if raised.  The rules also say that a chargeback has to be made 
within 120 days of purchase.  I can see that the purchase took place in April 2017 and by 
November 2017  Mr and Mrs M became aware that E was the subject of criminal 
proceedings. But Mr and Mrs M asked HSBC  to make the chargeback in August 2018 which 
I think was substantially after the 120 day rule and some  10 months after they were aware of 
proceedings against E. So I dont think HSBC  made  a mistake by concluding it couldnt  help 
Mr and Mrs M under the chargeback scheme.
The other payment  for over £7,000 was made by bank transfer and so a chargeback could 
not have been made  for that payment as it wasnt made by either  credit  or debit card.  Im 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs M authorised that payment and so I dont think  under any ground 
could HSBC have  been able to reverse that transaction in these circumstances.
I accept that E may have  misled Mr and Mrs M and I can see that successful proceedings 
took place against its directors. But for the reasons I have explained I dont  think HSBC 
could help Mr and Mrs M get their money  back and so Im satisfied it acted fairly and didnt 
make a mistake.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of the complaint and that
HSBC UK Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable total offer of £150 compensation in 
respect of its customer care issue. Mr and Mrs Ms acceptance of that further offer of £100 
would be in full and final settlement of that part of their complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4052132