K820x#14complaint
Mr H is a named driver on his fathers motor  insurance policy with Aviva  Insurance Limited. 
He complains that Aviva provided poor service to him after he reported an incident. 
 
background
Mr H told Aviva that another  drivers  car had collided with the rear of his parked vehicle. 
Aviva told us he said he wanted to claim on the other drivers policy.  The other  driver was 
also insured with Aviva. Mr H later complained to Aviva that one of its advisors  was rude, 
that he didnt get a return call as promised  and that its call holding times  were excessive. 
Aviva apologised to Mr H for its poor service and offered  him £100 compensation, which  he 
said he was happy  with at the time.  But later he told us that hed only agreed to it on the 
basis that someone from the team  dealing  with the other driver (Avivas third party  team)  
would call him within five working days.  That didnt happen, so Mr H complained  to this 
service about what he saw as Avivas  unrealistic promise.
One of our investigators  agreed that Avivas initial service to Mr H was poor, but noted that 
Mr H had accepted  the compensation it offered him for that. He said the advisor  had 
contacted the third party team as promised. He explained why we couldnt look into the 
actions of the third party team. As Mr H wasnt satisfied  with the investigators view, his 
complaint was passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
Mr Hs concerns about the third party team have been dealt with in a separate  decision.
Ive listened to the call on 31 May 2018  during which one of Avivas  advisors  tried to resolve 
Mr Hs complaint. He thanked Mr H for bringing the issues of concern to Avivas attention 
and apologised  for its poor service. He offered Mr H £100 compensation. Mr H said he was 
very happy with that. The advisor said the payment would go to Mr Hs father,  as he was the 
policy holder. 
Only at that point  did the advisor  say hed contact the third partys claims handler. He said 
hed ask the claims handler to review the file within the next five working days  and ask him 
or her to update Mr H. I think the call shows that Mr Hs acceptance of the compensation 
wasnt linked  to the third party update. And it also shows that his recollection of the call isnt 
accurate. The advisor didnt promise  Mr H an update within  five working days. I think  that 
whether Mr H got one from the third party claims handler was outside the advisors  control. 
On the same  day, the advisor  issued Avivas final response letter  to Mr H by email.  In the 
email, he said hed asked  the relevant case handler  to provide Mr H with an update  within 
the next five working days.  Aviva  has provided  an email that shows Mr H contacted the third 
party team as promised. So I think its clear that the advisor did what he said hed do. 
I dont think the advisor needed to do more than leave  the issue with the third party claims 
handler for action. But on 15 June 2018 he emailed Mr H with an update on the third party 
Ref: DRN49874572claim. I think  in doing so he provided  a high level of service to Mr H that required him to step 
outside his usual role. 
As I dont think Mr H has shown that Aviva  acted unreasonably, Im not upholding his 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4987457