K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P, who are represented by a third party, have complained to us that National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold  them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
that they took out to go with a mortgage in April 2003.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out the PPI on a joint basis  so they both had the benefit of the cover. It 
looks like the PPI was arranged with NatWest over the phone. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. NatWest made an offer of compensation but this was 
rejected by Mr and Mrs P so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.  Having done this, Ive decided  
to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Given that they bought the policy over the phone, its unlikely  that NatWest  made  a 
recommendation to Mr and Mrs P about buying PPI cover. But it still had to give them clear 
enough information about the PPI so they could make an informed decision about buying  it.
I dont think NatWest did this and so Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. I will explain 
why. 
The PPI policy excluded  any accident  or sickness claims that resulted from medical 
conditions that Mr and Mrs P already had when they bought the cover. I think  this wouldve 
mattered to Mr and Mrs P because Mrs P has a serious medical condition for which  she had 
previously undergone surgery and for which she continues to take medication. And from 
what Ive seen I dont  think NatWest made it clear enough that because of her pre-existing 
medical condition  its likely that Mrs P would  have difficulty making a successful claim on the 
policy. 
Ive also seen that NatWest has made an offer to compensate Mrs P only.  But Mr and Mrs P 
had taken out their mortgage together and had made the decision to arrange their finances 
so that they both had the benefit of PPI cover. And although this looks  as if it was a 
non- advised sale, they both had a right to be given information  that was clear, fair and not 
misleading, so they could  make an informed choice about what they wanted  to do about 
mortgage protection. NatWest, in selling the cover, also had a duty to point  out the main 
features of the cover. And this is where  I think it failed.
I follows that I dont think  its fair to consider  Mrs Ps complaint completely independently of 
Mr Ps. By looking only at Mrs Ps half of the joint policy  and mortgage,  NatWest is failing to 
deal with the complaint effectively or indeed, fairly.  
The simple  point is that I dont think Mr and Mrs P wouldve bought the policy  together  if 
NatWest had given  them enough information about it. So, I think  theyve both lost out 
because of that and both of them need  to be compensated.  
Ref: DRN45823642what I think NatWest should  do to put matters right 
National Westminster Bank Plc will need  to put Mr and Mrs P back  in the position  they would 
have been in if they had taken out their mortgage  without PPI. So National Westminster  
Bank Plc should:
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs P the total of the premiums they paid on their policy;
Pay interest at 8% simple on each of the premiums from the date of payment to the date 
the compensation is paid;
Set out in writing for Mr and Mrs P how the above was calculated.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires National Westminster Bank Plc to take off tax from this 
interest payment.  National Westminster  Bank  Plc must give Mr and Mrs P a certificate 
showing how much  tax theyve taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold this complaint and direct National Westminster  Bank  Plc to 
pay Mr and Mrs P fair compensation in accordance with the above calculation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4582364