K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund a payment he says 
he didnt make.
background
Mr L reported an online payment of £2,560.41  made on 20 May 2019  using  his debit card as 
fraudulent. He says he noticed this when he was checking his account for his pay on 24 May 
2019. Mr L says he kept his card safe and his details arent stored anywhere. Hed used his 
card to pay for a parking  permit online  a few days earlier and thought that website might  be 
compromised. He wants a refund.
Halifax said it wouldnt be refunding the money.  Mr L had told it no one had access to his 
phone, tablet or card. The genuine  payment for parking was made from the same IP address 
as the one used for the disputed payment.  That IP address had also been  used to pay his 
credit card bill around the same time.  Halifax said it had texted Mr L using his correct  phone 
number to confirm  the payment was genuine  and Mr L had replied to say it was. And it said 
hed made  fraud claims before.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that there had been 
three attempts to make the payment that night  at 22:22, 22:23  and 22:36  with the last one 
being successful.  The correct CVV three  digit security code and address details had been  
entered. Halifax couldnt provide a copy of the text message about the payment and Mr L 
said he hadnt received it. But our investigator  thought it most likely that the reason for the 
delay in the payment going  through was while more checks  were made with Mr L. He also 
thought Mr L had the opportunity to notice this money had gone earlier. Hed logged  onto 
online banking before 24 May 2019  when the payment would have already been removed 
from the available account balance. Mr L said his grown up children lived with him. But Mr L 
explained hed kept his card safe and with him at all times. There didnt  seem  to have been 
any possibility for someone to have taken and then replaced his card. 
Mr L didnt agree. He said he was being made to sound like a criminal when he was the 
victim. He maintained that Halifax didnt text or call him on 20 May 2019. And a real criminal 
had made  three attempts  to take his money.  Mr L said hed reported this to police who are 
looking into things.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if wasnt  authorised  Mr L 
wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
Ref: DRN43442002So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at this complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of how this payment was made?
-Did Mr L authorise the payment on the account?  
Ive seen evidence  about how this payment was processed. All of the card details matched 
and so too did the address entered for Mr L. Im satisfied  that the payment was 
authenticated.
I need to think  about  whether Mr L consented to it. As has been  set out above it was made 
from an IP address that Mr L used for genuine  payments  and to access  his online banking. 
This was a large  payment  compared to the normal ones  Mr L made. And it didnt go through  
straightaway. I agree it most likely  this was because further checks  were  being made and 
that these were successful. Halifax says that it would have texted Mr L about this and he 
said he did get a text when hed made the payment  for the parking permit   which was for 
less than £300.
Mr L has explained how he keeps  his card safe and that no one else in his household could 
have used it. There is no evidence his details were hacked in someway when he paid for 
his parking permit.  That payment was made a week earlier and also from the same IP 
address and there were no other payments  attempted that were  reported as fraudulent.
Mr L had used his card before and after the disputed payment. I note that on 22 May 2019 
he took out £10 in cash. And hed logged into online banking later on that day. This is a 
sizeable payment  and would have been removed from his available  balance. So I think it 
reasonably would have become apparent to him before he reported it on 24 May 2019.
I cant say exactly what happened but Im thinking about what  is most likely. And what I need  
to decide is whether its reasonable  for Halifax to hold Mr L responsible  for this payment. 
Having considered the available  evidence I think that Mr L most likely  consented  to and so 
authorised this payment. So I wont be asking Halifax to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4344200