K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC has issued him with a contactless credit 
card, which he doesnt want. 
background
Mr R said that Tesco  had issued him a contactless card for his credit card account. But he 
said he didnt want one. He was worried that someone else could use it. Mr R said hed 
asked Tesco about this, but it just said that it wouldnt change  it. 
Tesco said that it had stopped producing contactless cards. So it couldnt  give Mr R a 
contactless card, and it couldnt turn the contactless  feature off. But it said that Mr R would 
be protected from fraud. 
At first our investigator upheld this complaint, because she said that Tesco  hadnt shown that 
it had told Mr R this change would  be happening.  She said that Tesco should pay Mr R £25 
in compensation.  But Mr R said he didnt want that, he wanted the choice of whether  to have 
a contactless  card or not. And Tesco said that it didnt think  that the provisions on having to 
give notice of a change were relevant here. It said that it hadnt changed his terms and 
conditions. It had just given him a contactless  card, which  most  of its customers preferred.  
Tesco also said that Mr R got this card three weeks before his old one expired,  so he had a 
period of consideration when he had received  his new card but still had use of the old one. 
Our investigator then didnt uphold this complaint. She said that Tesco had written  to Mr R 
enclosing his new replacement card,  in August 2018, and telling him that card would be 
contactless. And Tesco had shown it was no longer  producing cards without contactless 
technology. That was a commercial decision that the bank had made,  and our service 
wouldnt interfere with that. So she said that she wouldnt ask it to do any more.
Mr R said that he didnt  get his new card in August. He got it in September. And he said that 
the new card didnt say it was contactless.  He didnt  find that out until he called Tesco.  
Our investigator spoke  to Tesco  about  this, and it said that it couldnt show  exactly  when the 
new card was sent to Mr R, but it could show that it had ordered the card in early  August. 
And it said that its new cards were  all sent out attached to a piece of paper, which explained 
that the card was contactless. Tesco showed our service what  that looked like. 
Tesco also sent us a call recording, when Mr R rang to see when he could expect his 
replacement card. On that call, Mr R asked whether the card he would get would be 
contactless, and was told then that all the cards Tesco  now issues are contactless. Mr R 
said that all his other banks had been  able to provide a non-contactless card, but the call 
handler confirmed  that contactless cards were all that Tesco  could offer. 
Our investigator wrote to Mr R again, and said that even if he hadnt received the piece  of 
paper which explained that his replacement card was contactless, hed already discussed 
that with Tesco,  so he knew he was getting a contactless card.  She appreciated that Mr R 
didnt want a contactless card, but she repeated that our service  couldnt ask Tesco to 
change that.
Ref: DRN45224992Mr R said that he still wasnt satisfied. He wanted  his complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
as our investigator on this complaint, and for broadly the same reasons.
Our investigator initially upheld this complaint  because she couldnt see that Mr R had been 
notified of the change  to contactless cards. But on a call Mr R made in early  September, he 
asked Tesco whether his new card would be contactless, and was told it would be. So Mr R 
was aware of this change. 
But its the change  itself that Mr R objects to. He doesnt want a contactless card. I 
understand hes now closed his account  with Tesco, because  thats all Tesco  will offer him. 
Im sorry  to have to tell Mr R that our investigator  was right, and our service cant change 
Tescos decision to provide only contactless  cards. Tesco doesnt have to provide cards  
which dont have contactless technology  if it doesnt  want to. Its taken a business decision 
to provide only contactless cards,  as thats what most of its customers  want. Our service  
cant tell Tesco how to run its business. And I dont think that the decision  that Tesco has 
taken to offer only a contactless card to Mr R is unfair or unreasonable.
Mr R also queried when  Tesco said it had sent him a card.  Tesco has told our service that it 
started the order process to replace Mr Rs card at the start of August. Our investigator 
assumed from this that Tesco  wouldve  sent that card to Mr R in August, but its not unusual  
for the order  process  for a replacement card to be started more than a month  before the card 
is issued. So I dont  think that Tesco has made  a mistake here.
I know that Mr R will be disappointed, but I dont think  his complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4522499