K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr O says Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him the PPI. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Halifax in the rest of my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Os case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr O says he had no idea PPI had been  added  to cover his credit card  and so it was 
done without his knowledge.  Ive seen a copy of Mr Os signed  credit card application. 
And on it I can see a printed x next to where  it says Credit Card  Repayments Cover. 
As the sale took place in one of Halifaxs branches, I think it most likely  a detailed 
discussion took place.  And I think Halifax most likely made  it clear  that Mr O didnt have 
to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out  given how long ago this was I can 
understand why he cant  remember this. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr O so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  which includes what  hes told us 
about his employer sick pay at the time  I think that it was. For example he wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had 
a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he likely chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr O has said - including  what hes said about his partner  
being employed too. But help from others  isnt guaranteed  after all, their circumstances 
can change too. So these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr O paid for it. But Halifax  has already  offered to give Mr O back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr O. 
Ref: DRN46424112my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4642411