K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs O say HSBC  UK Bank  Plc mis-sold them payment protection  insurance (PPI). 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs O bought  a policy in 1998  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage.  Due to the 
time that has passed, its not clear how Mr and Mrs O applied  for their mortgage  and PPI 
policy. 
In 2004, Mr and Mrs O applied for an equity  release  loan and a replacement PPI policy  to 
cover their extra borrowing as well as their original mortgage. The sale took place in-branch.
The policies provided cover for Mr O for accident, sickness, and unemployment   subject to 
their exclusions  and limitations. The first policy offered to repay £300 a month  towards 
Mr and Mrs Os mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim.  At the time, it cost 
£17.82 a month. The second policy offered to repay £500 a month  at a cost of £29.70 a 
month. 
For convenience  Ill refer to the policies in this decision  in the singular apart from where its 
appropriate for me to do otherwise.
At the time of the sales, Mr O was employed as a mechanical fitter/electrician. He has told 
us he was entitled to no more than statutory sick pay and didnt have any other means of 
repaying the mortgage should he be unable to work. Mr O has said he had no medical 
conditions at the time of the sales. 
Mr and Mrs Os representative made lengthy and substantial representations on their behalf. 
However, for ease  of reference, I will refer to its representations as being  Mr and Mrs Os 
from now on.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs O said:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the relevant times. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs O 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs O 
believes there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr and Mrs O about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs O and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN42143052The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs O received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally by our adjudicator, it was passed to me for a 
decision. Both parties have seen and had the opportunity to provide their responses  to my 
provisional decision. In it, I set out why I didnt  think the PPI had been mis-sold. I also 
explained why I considered HSBCs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy  costs  fair in all the 
circumstances.
Both parties  confirmed receipt of my provisional  decision. Both Mr and Mrs O and HSBC  
confirmed they had nothing more to add.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Os. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
These sales took place  in 1998 and 2004  before the sale of general  insurance products like 
this became regulated by the FSA in January  2005. So the FSAs  and the FCAs overarching  
principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable 
to this complaint;  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
HSBC accepts the unfair relationship provisions  set out at s140A and B of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 about s140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in the light of the Plevin judgment apply. I will come back to this later on.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the relevant times, which I am 
satisfied are applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In particular, The General Insurance Standards Councils  
General Insurance Code for private  customers  the GISC Code in relation to the sale in 
2004. 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014]  UKSC 61
Ref: DRN42143053This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
HSBC, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Os case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. These sales took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Os complaint. 
key questions
Ref: DRN42143054Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs O with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether HSBC gave Mr and Mrs O sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint about  the alleged  
mis-sale in favour of Mr and Mrs O, I must  then go on to consider whether and to 
what extent Mr and Mrs O suffered loss or damage  and what I consider would 
amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.  
-If I conclude Mr and Mrs O has not suffered  loss or damage  and I propose  no award 
for the alleged mis-sale, I must then go on to consider whether, in all the 
circumstances (and taking into account  sections  140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Courts decision in Plevin, and the FCAs guidance at DISP 
App 3), HSBC should have disclosed the commission  it received - and if it didnt, 
what would be fair compensation in all the circumstances.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs O 
and HSBC, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Os alleged mis-sale complaint. I have 
also considered  the issue  of non-disclosure  of commission  and Ive decided that HSBC 
should have disclosed  the commission it received. My findings  are set out below. 
did Mr and Mrs O know they had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
The sale in 1998 took place a long time ago and, understandably in my view,  there  are gaps 
in the information thats still available at the time.  Although  Ive taken into account what  
Mr and Mrs O have said about not being given  the option to decline the PPI, I havent seen 
any evidence in support of that.
Regarding the sale in 2004, HSBCs provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Os signed  Customer 
Instruction Form. It shows  a tick in a box indicating they wanted PPI and that Mr O was 
chosen as the insured person.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs O knew the PPI was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN42143055did HSBC provide  advice?
Neither HSBC nor Mr and Mrs O know if advice was provided  during this sale.  
In the absence of strong evidence either way, Ive decided to give Mr and Mrs O the benefit 
of the doubt and assess the complaint as though HSBC provided advice.
This means  HSBC had to advise Mr and Mrs O with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps HSBC took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs O. It seems Mr and Mrs O cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Os financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence 
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr O would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest HSBC  considered  whether Mr O had 
any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs O given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded HSBC advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs O, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr O met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs O had a need  for the policy  Mr O would not have received any 
enhanced sick pay if he was unable to work due to illness, his redundancy benefits 
are likely to be limited  and they didnt  have any savings  they could fall back on. The 
policy would have  helped  Mr and Mrs O manage the consequences if Mr O was 
unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs O.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs O. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Os employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  And he hasnt told us about  any pre-existing 
medical conditions  that could affect  his ability to claim. There  were  also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Mr and Mrs Os 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr and Mrs O sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what HSBC 
Ref: DRN42143056was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs O were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr O was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs O 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs O agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs O Im not persuaded 
HSBC did enough  to present information  about  the policy it was recommending  in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded HSBC gave Mr and Mrs O all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs O has raised a number of 
general points  with regard to the requirements  on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like theirs.  Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs O considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs O about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Os views on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr and Mrs O have suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and 
standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and 
reasonable to conclude  that HSBC ought to have done either.  
Ref: DRN42143057what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs O? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs O suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr and 
Mrs O. So I have gone on to consider  whether  it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr and Mrs O suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs O would have still taken  out the policy,  had HSBC done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs O, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs O have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if HSBC had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs O would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs O say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs O had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when HSBC advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  
Mr O was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Os circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs O knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear HSBC told them the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs O applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs O would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with HSBC  at the time, or reconsidered  their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs O would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  HSBC  made  clear  exactly what  Mr and Mrs O would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Os 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did.
Ref: DRN42143058Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs O thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr O received 
treatment or advice for in the 12 months  before the start date of the policy and which  
recurred within 12 months of the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr O 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs O pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs O from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Os circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr O was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable  
to them  should  the insured risks have  become  a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to 
suggest Mr O wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr O didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs O would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
HSBC may not have  told Mr and Mrs O that any claim they made  would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but they didnt have  any other means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs O would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr O be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs O would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr O was made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs O would have taken out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN42143059Mr and Mrs O say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) make  it clear 
that, where a significant failing is identified, it should  be presumed the consumer wouldnt 
have taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs O would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Os 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs O found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs O believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs O in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mr and Mrs O compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs O think HSBC misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mr and Mrs O, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1998  and 2004 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs O say a court might take if it were to find 
HSBC negligently  misrepresented the contract to them and about the remedy  a court  might  
award if it were to find that HSBC had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But 
this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
Ref: DRN421430510circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs O in a better position than if everything had happened as 
it should have  done. 
So I dont  uphold the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Os complaint.
However, having considered the overall mis-sale, I must now go on to consider whether the 
non-disclosure of commission  resulted  in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what compensation  it would be fair to award to Mr and 
Mrs O to remedy that unfairness.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive considered the effect of section  140A  and B of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court decision  in Plevin v Paragon and the FCAs rules and guidance for businesses about 
handling PPI complaints  set out at DISP App 3 (as I referred to earlier)  in the light of that 
case.
Section 140A (1) and (2) of the Consumer Credit Act states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising  out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair  to the debtor  
because of one or more  of the following:
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either before or 
after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement) .
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the creditor  and 
matters relating to the debtor).
Mr and Mrs O has made  a number of representations about the impact of the Plevin  
judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.  In 
summary, Mr and Mrs O said that:
-HSBC failed to tell them about the high commission and profit-share rates paid,  the 
low claims ratio (the proportion of the premiums paid by policyholders used to pay 
claims), and the restrictions and exclusions on cover; and
-If HSBC had told them about  those things, they would not have taken  out the policy, 
so they should get back  all the money they paid by way of premium for the policy.
Ive considered those  representations carefully.  In doing so, Im mindful  of the following:
-When selling insurance,  the relevant insurance  codes  did not specifically require 
HSBC to tell Mr and Mrs O about  commission or about the claims ratio (nor, for 
Ref: DRN421430511reasons Ive already explained,  did the duty of utmost good faith require that). As the 
FCA said when introducing its rules and guidance to businesses  for the handling of 
PPI complaints in the light of the Plevin judgment, the failure to disclose commission 
was not in breach of the industry codes and would not  in and of itself  have  been  a 
breach of FCAs Principles for Businesses. Those Principles  include a requirement 
on businesses to pay due regard to the interests  of its customers and treat them  
fairly (albeit as I set out earlier  the Principles are not relevant in this case.)
-Where a court determines under section 140A that the relationship between the 
creditor and the debtor  arising out of a credit  agreement (or the agreement taken with 
any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of (among other things) 
anything done,  or not done, by or on behalf of the creditor,  the court  has a range of 
powers available to it under section 140B. Those powers include altering the terms of 
the credit  agreement or any related  agreement,  requiring the creditor  to repay  sums 
paid by the debtor, and to reduce  or discharge any sums  payable.
-The Supreme  Court considered whether the non-disclosure of high commission  
levels might  produce  an unfair  relationship in the case  of Plevin. In that case,  the 
Supreme Court  concluded that that the non-disclosure of commission  could lead to 
an unfair relationship.
-Following the Plevin judgment (and the uncertainty  that it created), the FCA issued 
rules and guidance to businesses for the handling of PPI complaints that included a 
complaint about undisclosed commission. That guidance (which is contained in DISP 
App 3) came into force  in August  2017 and was preceded by a policy  statement 
(PS17/03, issued  in March 2017) and two consultation papers (CP15/39  and 
CP16/20). The respondents to those consultations included consumer groups, 
businesses, claims management companies  and trade  associations, and the final 
rules and guidance took account of their views.
-In PS 17/03, the FCA said that in publishing  this guidance for firms, it had used [its] 
regulatory judgement to create  a framework  that [it] believe[s]  will reduce uncertainty  
and enable firms to take a fair and consistent  approach to handling  PPI complaints. 
This will help ensure the best outcomes for consumers  at the earliest  stage in the 
complaints process [Page 6 para 1.8]
-In broad terms, the FCAs guidance and rules  for businesses  handling PPI 
complaints require businesses to consider complaints about PPI using  a two-step 
approach as set out in DISP App 3. Broadly speaking, at step 1, the firm should first 
consider whether the businesss conduct of the sale failed to comply with FCAs 
rules or legal requirements.  Where failings are identified,  the business  should 
determine the way the consumer would have acted if the breach  or failing had not 
occurred (i.e. whether  or not the consumer  would  have  bought the policy) and then 
determine appropriate redress - if any. It is at this step, for instance, where the 
presumption in DISP  App 3.6.2E  which I have  already addressed  above   may 
apply.
-Where the business concludes   as HSBC did in this complaint  that the consumer 
would have bought PPI, it must then go on to assess, at step 2, whether any failure 
to disclose commission and profit share  gave rise to an unfair relationship  under 
section 140A, in which case the business  should  go on to determine the appropriate 
remedy - if any.
Ref: DRN421430512-As a starting point,  the FCAs rules  and guidance require businesses to presume  that 
the failure to disclose  commission  gave rise to an unfair relationship where  the 
business expected commission and profit share to be more  than 50% of the cost of 
the policy (the FCA referred to this as the tipping point in its consultations  and 
policy statement). Usually, in those  circumstances, the FCAs rules and guidance 
require businesses to refund the amounts paid by the consumer  in commission  and 
profit share above 50% of the policys cost,  plus interest. While  this presumption of 
an unfair relationship  is rebuttable, I note that HSBC  has not sought to rebut it in 
Mr and Mrs Os case.  In fact, HSBC made an offer of payment to Mr and Mrs O in 
2018, calculated  in line with the FCAs guidance.
Was there an unfair relationship?
Given that HSBC didnt tell Mr and Mrs O about  the high levels  of commission  and profit 
share paid in this case, I think its likely a court would  determine that the relationship 
between HSBC and Mr and Mrs O was unfair  under section 140A. As Ive mentioned above, 
the FCAs rules require HSBC to determine appropriate redress in those circumstances,  and 
I have had regard  to those rules  below in deciding what  compensation it would be fair to 
award Mr and Mrs O in order  to remedy that unfairness. 
With respect to the claims ratio, I cant say with any degree of certainty  whether a court  
would conclude that HSBCs failure to disclose  information about  the claims ratio also meant 
there was an unfair relationship. But in some  respects, commission  and the claims ratio are 
two sides of the same coin  the fact that a relatively small amount of the premiums  is 
required to pay claims is what permits the high commission and profit  share payments.  
And I accept   although I cant be sure  theres a possibility that a court might take a similar 
view about the claims  ratio when considering a claim  under section 140A. But since  Ive 
already found  that its likely a court would say that HSBC  should have told Mr and Mrs O 
about commission, and the claims ratio involves a similar concept, I dont think  the failure to 
disclose the claims ratio as a separate matter affects my overall conclusion about whats fair 
in this case.
So, taking into account:
-the likelihood (in my view) that a court  would  determine the relationship  between  
HSBC and Mr and Mrs O was unfair under section  140A  because it didnt tell them 
about the high levels of commission and profit  share  paid in this case; and
-the regulators complaint handling  guidance  for businesses, 
I dont think HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr and Mrs O insofar  as it 
failed to disclose  the high commission  and profit  share  paid out of the premiums  in this case. 
Redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.  
Ive thought carefully about whether fair compensation means Mr and Mrs O should get a full 
refund of the premiums they paid to put them  in the position they would have been in if they 
hadnt taken the policy out, or a full refund of the commission and profit  share HSBC 
received, or a refund of the commission paid above  a certain point   for example by taking 
Ref: DRN421430513the approach  set out in the FCAs rules and guidance (as has already been  offered by 
HSBC).
As Ive mentioned  above, Mr and Mrs O says that they should  get a full refund of all the PPI 
premiums they have paid.  In summary,  Mr and Mrs O says that the high level of commission 
(and/or the low claims ratio)  together with the policys limitations  and exclusions  meant  
that the PPI policy  generally represented  poor value for money for them. I should therefore 
find that Mr and Mrs O would  not have purchased the policy had they known of the level of 
commission  and accordingly, they should receive a refund of all the PPI premiums they 
paid. 
I have thought carefully about these representations  and am mindful  of Lord Sumptions  
observation in Plevin (at paragraph 18 of his judgment) where he said:
Any reasonable  person in [Mrs Plevins] position  who was told that more than two thirds  of 
the premium was going to intermediaries,  would  be bound to question whether the insurance 
represented value  for money, and whether it was a sensible  transaction to enter into. The 
fact that she was left in ignorance in my opinion made the relationship unfair.  
However, I note that the Supreme Court made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case (Mrs Susan Plevin) would (or would not) have purchased  the PPI 
policy had the commission  been disclosed to her at the time of her purchase. The Supreme 
Court simply did not address the question of causation. I do not therefore consider that the 
Plevin judgment necessarily drives  me to the conclusion that Mr and Mrs O suggests it does 
 i.e. that they necessarily would not have purchased the policy  had the level of commission 
been disclosed to them at the time.
I have also borne in mind  that the overarching question for the court would be what  steps are 
required to remedy the unfairness, and that, under  section 140B, the court would have a 
wide range  of powers available to it in order to do so under the lending  relationship  in 
question. It does not, for instance,  follow that because HSBC  did not disclose the high level 
of commission to Mr and Mrs O, the court would necessarily order HSBC to return  all the 
premiums Mr and Mrs O paid for the policy. Nor does it follow  that the court  would 
necessarily find that Mr and Mrs O would not have purchased  the policy but for HSBCs 
failure to disclose the high commission. 
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs O in order to remedy the unfairness arising from the fact HSBC did not disclose 
the high level of commission to them before they purchased  the policy.
The FCAs  guidance to firms following the Plevin  judgment
In considering what would represent  fair compensation for Mr and Mrs O, I have, as I stated 
earlier, had regard to the FCAs guidance to firms for handling PPI complaints involving a 
complaint about  undisclosed commission. I think the FCAs guidance is an important 
consideration for me to take into account, and I will now explain how I think  the FCAs 
guidance affects my decision  on this issue.   
As I explained above, the FCA consulted extensively between 2015 and 2017 on the 
question of how firms should handle PPI complaints involving a complaint  about undisclosed 
commission in the light of the Plevin judgment. In the exercise  of its regulatory judgment,  the 
FCA established the two-step approach  I summarised above. According to the FCA, the 
Ref: DRN421430514purpose of this approach was to allow firms to take a fair and consistent approach to 
handling PPI complaints  involving undisclosed commission. 
The FCA explained why it decided to exercise its regulatory judgment  in the way it did in 
paragraphs 4.68  4.70 of PS17/3.  These paragraphs state as follows:
The two step approach 
The approach to assessing merits  
4.68 Some responses  from industry, and from CMCs and consumer bodies, maintained their 
broad support for our proposed structuring  of the new rules  and guidance  concerning Plevin 
as a separate second step within our existing PPI complaint handling  rules and guidance, 
seeing it as a sensible and proportionate approach. 
4.69 However, some  industry respondents maintained and amplified their concerns about  
our view (at paragraph 5.69 of CP15/39)  that, in some marginal cases, a firm may conclude  
at Step 2 that not disclosing  commission over 50% was the straw that broke the back  of the 
sale as a whole, and that, overall, the customer would not have bought the PPI if given 
better information, including about the commission, at point of sale. These  responses argue 
that our view: 
inappropriately blurs the lines between two very different sets of circumstances
is confusing and contradictory from the consumers perspective
will result in uncertainty and disorderliness, as CMCs will use it to try to get any Step 
2 uphold  upgraded to a Step 1 uphold, increasing the length and complexity of 
handling for firms and delaying redress to consumers
imposes disproportionate  costs on firms  and the Financial Ombudsman Service  who 
will need  to operationalise such hybrid  assessments as standard  in their processes 
despite the small number, we say, whose outcomes will change  in practice 
4.70 Conversely, some  responses from consumer  bodies  and CMCs maintained  and 
amplified their previous  concerns that we are artificially and wrongly separating  the issues at 
Step 1 and Step 2, when these should be considered together. Specifically, they said that: 
We had mis-understood the relevant case law and disregarded relevant 
considerations from the Plevin judgment, and ignored the findings  of the Competition  
Commission that the non-disclosure of commission was a central  plank of the sales 
strategy employed by most lenders.
The question of unfairness under s.140A is not a narrow  test of commission.  Instead, 
it is a wide one in the round,  so any sales failings  at Step 1, or other issues of 
unfairness or inequalities of knowledge  such as poor value from a low claims ratio,  
should also be considered at Step 2, in particular by the Financial Ombudsman  
Service, which has to consider all the circumstances anyway, not just s.140A. 
Conversely, Plevin says failure to disclose commission is unfair  which  presumably 
also makes  it a breach of FCA principles 6 and 7  and that the customer did need to 
be told about poor value, and it explicitly cites unfairness arising from undisclosed 
poor value. So it is wrong  for our proposed structure to imply (and Financial 
Ref: DRN421430515Ombudsman Service decisions to assert) that the non-disclosure of high commission  
and poor value was not relevant for causation and potential mis-selling or 
assessment at Step 1. Our proposed approach  paid lip service  to this, allowing that 
undisclosed commission  may be the straw that broke the back of the sale as a 
whole, but said these  are marginal cases that will be few and far between   
whereas in reality,  they are the norm.
As proposed, Step 2 assumes Step 1 has been fairly carried out, but we cannot 
reasonably assume  that, given  the continued  poor complaint handling by firms. And 
the approach itself incentivises lenders not to concede a mis-sale,  and to instead 
redress more cheaply at Step 2. 
Our response
We have carefully  considered this feedback. However,  we see no reason to change our 
previous views or position.
Plevin deals with the specific question of whether an unfair relationship between lender and 
borrower was created by undisclosed high commission on the PPI. This question  is different 
from, and narrower than, the principal question behind our existing rules and guidance for 
firms, which  is: did the conduct of the firm that sold the PPI fall so short, at point of sale,  of 
what we would expect  under our Principles and ICOB(S) rules,  that it made the sale 
substantially flawed?  
We still believe the two-step approach reflects this difference appropriately and fairly for 
complainants and firms.  An alternative approach which  merged considerations about  
undisclosed commission  into the existing rules  and guidance about  mis-selling to create a 
single test would not be appropriate because:  
We do not consider the non-disclosure of commission in PPI sales to have been a 
breach of our ICOB(S) rules,  and it is unlikely  in and of itself to have been  in breach 
of our Principles,  whereas we do consider the various  sales failings set out in the 
existing rules and guidance to be so.
It would  lead us, and firms, into difficult considerations  of whether a consumer would 
still have bought  the PPI if they had been  told about the level of commission. This 
difficulty is compounded by the fact that complaints about PPI increasingly involve 
older, pre-2005  sales,  of which some will be eligible to be considered at Step 2.
Additionally, if we were to force  firms  to make these assessments  it would result in 
complaint outcomes  which would  be both arbitrary  and inappropriately all or nothing. 
It could give too little  nothing  to many  consumers  who had suffered an unfair 
relationship, and too much  full return of premium and interest  to many consumers 
who had benefitted from the PPI cover. (See paragraphs 4.87-4.105 below for further 
discussion of our approach to redress.) 
We would, anyway, have to leave scope for a PPI complaint where undisclosed  
commission may be relevant to be assessed  by a lender  that did not sell the PPI and 
could not assess  if it was mis-sold under  our existing rules..
Ref: DRN421430516This extract makes it clear that the FCA specifically considered  representations  from 
consumer bodies  and claims management companies which are very similar to the 
representations which Mr and Mrs O are now making  i.e. that the existence of an 
undisclosed high level of commission means that I should find that Mr and Mrs O would not 
have purchased the policy had they known about  the level of commission at the time they 
bought the policy.
However, I note that, in the exercise of its regulatory judgment,  the FCA decided that it 
would not be appropriate to merge considerations about undisclosed commission into the 
existing rules and guidance about mis-selling. This is why it created the two-step approach  
for firms handling PPI complaints summarised above. And as part of that two-step  approach, 
the FCA said that impact  of the undisclosed commission  and the compensation required to 
remedy the unfairness caused by that undisclosed  commission  should generally be 
considered at step 2. 
Turning now to consider  what  the FCAs guidance says about  how firms should calculate fair 
compensation to remedy the unfairness caused by undisclosed commission at step 2, I am 
mindful that the FCAs guidance on this issue was also the product of extensive  consultation  
and deliberation. The following extract from para 4.104 of PS17/3  (omitting the footnotes)  
explains the FCAs position:
Concerning the core logic of our proposed approach to redress, we note [] the 
courts might take a variety  of approaches to redress on individual  cases. However, 
we remain of the view that our approach,  centred  on the return of that portion of 
undisclosed commission plus profit share that exceeded  the tipping point, is fair and 
appropriate. As we have  explained  (see our response under paragraph  3.27 above), 
we are exercising  our regulatory  judgement  about appropriate assessment and, 
where appropriate, redress of relevant PPI complaints in light of s.140A-B, taking 
account of Plevin. In doing so, we are seeking  to ensure fair and consistent complaint 
handling. We consider our approach to redress to be a reasonable starting 
presumption, which fits well with the central importance Lord Sumption gave to the 
notion of a tipping point.  
For these reasons, although  it was the remedy in Plevin ordered by the Manchester  
County Court, we do not agree that our general  approach to redress should be the 
return of all the commission that was not disclosed. Also,  the consumer,  who,  as 
would generally  have been established at Step 1, was not mis-sold, had a need for 
the protection offered  by the policy and enjoyed the benefit  of that protection  before 
complaining. So it is fair and reasonable for the lender to keep some of the 
commission from the policys distribution (i.e. the portion under the tipping point).
 
Nor do we agree that our approach to redress should  be the return  of all the 
premium(s) paid by the consumer. Adopting  this approach would dissolve any 
meaningful distinction between  a mis-sale and an unfair relationship  under  s.140A, 
and thus between our existing Step 1 and proposed  Step 2. In our view, it would 
(even more than the return  of all commission) give excessive redress to the 
consumer who had enjoyed the benefit of that protection  before complaining. We 
consider it is fair and reasonable for the consumer to have still paid for the 
underwriting of the policy  and for some of the commission  from the policys  
distribution (i.e. the portion  under  the tipping  point).
 
We do not agree that our approach to redress at Step 2 inconsistently evokes 
hypothetical scenarios  or, in general  or for historic interest specifically,  implies  any 
Ref: DRN421430517assumption that the customer would have  searched for or bought  an alternative  PPI 
policy that was cheaper by the amount of the excess  commission over the tipping 
point. So we do not need to take into account whether such  alternative cheaper PPI 
policies existed or were  available to the consumer.  
Rather, as stated above, our approach simply seeks to redress  the customer  for that 
element of undisclosed  excess commission  and profit share which created the unfair 
relationship under s.140A. It is in that specific sense, of our approach  not second 
guessing what  the consumer would have done had they been told of the commission,  
that we meant that our approach was different from the but for logic at Step 1. We 
did not mean that our overall approach to redress had no element of restoring the 
consumers financial position to what  it would  have been without the undisclosed 
excess commission.
 
Lastly, we note that our approach  to redress has to be viewed in the round, as a 
package. Responses from CMCs  and consumer bodies have focused on aspects 
which they believe depart  from Plevin and are ungenerous to complainants,  such  as 
the presumptive  50% tipping point and redress based on the excess over it. 
Responses from industry have focused on aspects which they believe depart from . 
So we consider that, overall, our approach is balanced and will give redress,  in 
aggregate and to individuals, that is fair and proportionate in light of the detriment 
identified and described by the Supreme Courts judgment.  ..
In essence, therefore,  the FCAs guidance  to firms for calculating fair compensation in a 
case like Mr and Mrs Os (involving a regular premium policy)  is that a firm should  pay a sum 
equivalent to the commission and profit share that is in excess of 50% of the policys cost, 
together with interest. According to the FCA, compensation calculated in this way would 
fairly remove the element of unfairness caused  by the existence  of the undisclosed high 
commission. 
my conclusion
Taking all these considerations  into account,  and having carefully  considered Mr and 
Mrs Os representations,  my conclusion is as follows:
-Where a court determines that the relationship between a creditor and debtor is 
unfair under section  140A,  the court is empowered  to make a variety of different 
types of orders under  section 140B in order remedy that unfairness.
-Mr and Mrs O has urged  me to conclude  that because HSBCs failure to disclose the 
high level of commission (and/or profit  share) made their relationship with HSBC  
unfair, I must  find that they wouldnt have purchased the policy had they known about 
these matters at the time they purchased the policy.
-However, I do not accept Mr and Mrs Os suggestion. As I said above,  I recognise it 
is possible that had the level of commission been disclosed to Mr and Mrs O at the 
time of the sale, they might have decided not to purchase  the policy. At the same 
time, however,  I am mindful of:
i. the FCAs observation in PS17/03  (which  I have  quoted  above) that the 
existence of undisclosed  commission question raises difficult considerations 
of whether a consumer  would  still have bought the PPI if they had been told 
about the level of commission; and
Ref: DRN421430518ii. the fact that there are a variety of other ways to fairly  remedy  the unfairness 
caused to Mr and Mrs O by the failure  to disclose the high level of 
commission  I am not, as Mr and Mrs O suggests, driven to conclude that 
they wouldnt have  purchased the policy but for HSBCs failure  to disclose the 
level of commission.
-I am also mindful that the FCAs guidance  to firms for handling complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission  requires a firm to refund some of the money paid for 
the PPI policy  in order to remedy the unfairness  caused by the failure  to disclose the 
level of commission. I also think that refunding  some of the money paid for the PPI 
policy in this way is an order which the court could,  in the exercise of its discretion, 
make under  section  140B in order  to remedy any unfairness.
 
-Overall, and on balance, I therefore  think it was fair for HSBC to calculate  
compensation in line with the FCAs guidance for handling complaints about the non-
disclosure of commission and profit share,  and thus return  some of the money 
Mr and Mrs O paid for their PPI policy. This is because, in my view,  this:
i. fairly removed the source of the unfairness; while:
ii. leaving  Mr and Mrs O with the policy Ive concluded above they would have 
taken out if HSBC had met its obligations when  acting as an insurance seller 
 but with lower  commission  and profit  share levels.
   
-In other  words, by compensating  Mr and Mrs O in line with the FCAs guidance at 
step 2, this effectively  reduced the overall cost of the policy by an amount equal to 
the excess undisclosed high commission (and/or profit share) which is the very 
source of the unfairness for the purposes of section 140A.
  
-I think that compensating Mr and Mrs O in this way was a fair and reasonable 
outcome because it left them with the policy I believe they would have still taken  out 
(for the reasons  I explained above) while fairly  compensating them for the unfairness 
caused by the existence  of undisclosed high commission. 
Taking all of this into account,  I therefore  consider that HSBCs  offer of payment  of an 
amount equivalent  to the commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy  
costs, in line with the FCAs  guidance to firms was fair in all the circumstances. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Os complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that HSBC  
UK Bank Plc should pay Mr and Mrs O an amount equivalent to the commission and profit  
share paid in excess of 50% of the PPI cost, if it hasnt already done  so. 
Ref: DRN421430519Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2021.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4214305