K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  gave them an incorrect  
figure for the redemption of their lifetime mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs B had a lifetime mortgage with Aviva, and on 25 June 2018 they phoned to 
request a redemption  figure. Unfortunately due to a system error an incorrect  figure was 
generated of about £20,000  less than it should have been.
Mr and Mrs B queried the amount as it was so much lower than the previous figures theyd  
been given (in March  and May 2018) but say they were reassured by the adviser it was due 
to the movement in gilt prices in their favour.
On 9 July 2018 Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor requested an up to date figure and was this time 
quoted the correct amount. Mr and Mrs B immediately queried it and raised a complaint.
The mortgage was repaid  on 13 July 2018.
Aviva apologised for its mistake and offered £500 compensation. Mr and Mrs B said they 
wanted the £20,000 difference, but were willing to settle for £10,000. Our adjudicator felt 
Avivas offer was fair and didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs B didnt agree and so its 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont doubt that this is very important for 
Mr and Mrs B, but although Ive read and considered  the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because  I dont think I need  to comment on it in order  to reach the right 
outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party. Were required to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable having assessed all of the available  evidence  from the parties.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when  a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case it was a simple  system  error that meant Mr and Mrs B were  led to 
believe  for a period of two weeks  that the redemption  figure  would be lower than it 
actually was. This is a mistaken statement of facts; a misrepresentation. When were looking  
at complaints of this type we consider the appropriate remedy is to place the consumer in 
the position they would be in if the incorrect information hadnt been  given.  We dont put 
them in the position they would be in if it had been  correct. 
If the correct  information had been  given, Mr and Mrs B would have been  told two weeks  
earlier than they were of the true redemption figure.  Mr and Mrs B could  never have been in 
the position where they only needed to repay  the (wrong) lower figure. As the mistake was 
corrected two weeks later, Mr and Mrs B have already had the appropriate remedy  in that 
they knew the true position before they were tied to repaying the mortgage.
Ref: DRN44889732Mr and Mrs B say they hope  by not going away Aviva might try to avoid a recurrence with 
other customers, and it should be thought of as a learning curve for the business  and 
thereby avoiding further complaints.
Were not the regulator and its not within my remit to tell Aviva what it should  do to prevent 
anything similar happening again. We look at each complaint individually and what may - or 
may not - happen in the future  to other  customers isnt something I can consider here when 
deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about what happened to them. 
Nor can I make orders or awards on the basis it might  help a business learn from its 
mistakes. Its not our role to fine or punish  a business and our awards arent punitive. Clearly 
no amount of compensation can change what happened; all I can do is consider the impact 
of a businesss actions  on the consumer. I also look at the awards of compensation weve 
made in other similar cases.  Having  done  so Im satisfied  that the £500 compensation 
already offered by Aviva is fair.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  in the sense I consider Aviva  made  a fair 
offer. I leave it to Mr and Mrs B to decide  if  on reflection  they now wish to accept that. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which  means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under  the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject 
my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4488973