complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
credit card in 2002. Mr Y says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ys case.  Mr Y says given his sick pay entitlement  
and other  means  he had no need  for PPI. He said if the costs and benefits and optional 
nature of the policy had been made clear, he wouldnt have taken PPI.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  the reasons for my decision.
Mr Y applied for his credit card through the post.  Ive seen his credit  card application 
form. Hes ticked  the box to say he wants PPI and signed the form. The paperwork is 
clear that PPI is optional.  So, I think it more  likely  that Mr Y selected PPI because he 
wanted it, knowing he didnt have to have it. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr Y, so it didnt have to take steps to check that the 
PPI was right for him. But, it did have to give him enough information  so that he could 
decide for himself  if the policy was right for him and he wanted to buy it.
Its possible the information Barclays  gave  Mr Y about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  So, I have to go on and consider whether he has lost out because of this. 
I cant see that he has. I think PPI couldve been useful for him if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. He was eligible to take out the policy  and I cant see that 
he was affected  by any of the main limits or exclusions on the policy. He said he wouldve 
got some  sick pay through work, if he was off sick, and said he was eligible for redundancy 
pay. But, the policy wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ys work benefits and I cant see that he 
had any other means of making his repayments.  Also, it wouldve allowed him to use his 
work benefits to meet his other living expenses, at what might  be a difficult  time for him 
financially if he wasnt working. I dont think having better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr Ys said - but these  points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr Y.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr Y because:
Barclays got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% 
of the PPI premium) - so it should have  told Mr Y about that. Because 
Barclays didnt tell Mr Y, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Ref: DRN47819632The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr Y.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr Y any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
 
Kim Parsons
vmbudsman
Ref: DRN4781963