K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Cheltenham and Gloucester (Lloyds), mis-sold  him 
a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken  out in 2000. The policy was 
taken out in Mr As name only alongside a mortgage.
In 2001 Mrs A was added to the mortgage  as well as the PPI. The benefit was split 60% for 
the benefit of Mr A and 40% for Mrs A.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr A told us he wasnt give a choice about taking the PPI. It was included  in his 
mortgage application.
But I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr A didnt have to take out the PPI. I also think  he 
chose to take the policy knowing  he didnt  have to  although I can understand why he 
cant remember this bearing  how long ago the sale was.
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage application  form completed in 2000. Theres  a section 
for PPI and yes or no options. A tick has been  placed in the box to say PPI was 
wanted. Lloyds  has also given us a copy of the separate PPI application form completed 
in 2000. Within this form there is a completed  direct debit mandate  giving Lloyds 
permission to take the PPI premiums. So from this, I think Mr A knew that the PPI policy 
was separate  and an optional product. I also havent  seen anything  that suggests  the 
application was more likely to be accepted by taking out the policy.
And for Mrs A to have been added to the policy in 2001 and for the original policy  benefit 
to have been amended, shows they made a choice about what  was the suitable benefit  
for their circumstances. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs A  which means  it had to check  that 
the PPI was right for them. And based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. Mr and Mrs A have told us they were both employed and would 
each receive employee benefits for three months  if either  of them  was too unwell to work 
and would receive a redundancy payment. But the policy would have paid out over and 
above any employee benefits  Mr and Mrs A may have received and for longer. So they 
could have used  any employee benefits  for other essential  outgoings. Any savings they 
may have had could  have  remained  intact  for longer and used for their original purpose.
I cant see the policy wasnt right for Mr and Mrs A. For example, they werent affected by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need  for 
the cover.
Ref: DRN42971092I dont know how the policy  was presented so its possible the information  Lloyds  gave 
Mr and Mrs A about the PPI policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. But it seems 
like it would have been useful if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put them off 
taking out the cover.
This means Lloyds  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI policies to 
Mr and Mrs A.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI policies to Mr and Mrs A because:
When the policy was sold,  Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs A. 
Because Lloyds  didnt  tell Mr and Mrs A, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premiums  and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr and Mrs A any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premiums. Lloyds should also pay back to Mr and Mrs A any extra  
interest they paid because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr and Mrs A the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI policies. Lloyds 
should also pay Mr and Mrs A 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs A can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs A any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4297109