K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a business loan Mr N took out with National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) in 2012  in relation to his business as a sole trader. The loan, which  repaid his 
business overdraft,  was secured by a legal  charge  given by him and Mrs N in 2001 over their 
jointly-owned home. The complaint, in essence,  is that NatWest:
mis-sold the loan because it takes Mr N into his eighties, took no account of his ability  to 
pay it after he stopped  trading,  and gave him no other options;
has charged an excessively high interest rate on the loan;
made no attempt  to tell Mrs N of the arrangement; 
didnt help him when he stopped trading in 2018;  and
didnt investigate the complaint properly.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 22 January 2020, which  is attached below and forms 
part of this final decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I was minded to 
determine this complaint,  subject to the further  submissions of the parties by 
5 February 2020.  
Mr and Mrs N have replied. Despite a reminder, weve not had a response from NatWest. 
Ive allowed  a further week for it to do so, but in fairness, I cant leave matters hanging.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Much of what, Mr and Mrs N have said about the sale of the loan and the interest rate 
charged on it is a reiteration  of the arguments  theyd already made,  and which Id already 
considered before arriving at my provisional  decision. That being  so, I havent changed my 
mind about  how this complaint should fairly be resolved. 
Ive given a lot of thought to the steps Mr and Mrs N say they might have considered taking if 
the loan hadnt been provided and theyd  still had the overdraft to deal with. The problem is 
that all of these  were things they could have done in any event, to pay down the loan more  
quickly than scheduled.  And just as Mr and Mrs N say my comments  about  what might  have  
happened differently are speculative, its reasonable to observe  that theirs  are too, in equal 
measure.
Mr and Mrs N say they have no recollection of signing the legal charge in the presence of a 
solicitor, as NatWest has claimed.  This was 2001, so I wouldnt  necessarily  expect them to 
recall it, but in any event,  all I said in the provisional decision was that it was, at best,  likely  
that they had done so. I also made the point that it was of no help to NatWest when deciding  
what was fair treatment in 2007.
Just as I recommended they seek legal advice on how a court  might  view the implications  of 
my decision  on their complaint, Mr and Mr N will need to seek  similar advice on how my 
decision would affect a voluntary sale.
Ref: DRN44769362I understand Mr and Mrs Ns faith in NatWest is diminished; thats a natural subjective 
reaction. But they have  a debt to repay, and I have reminded  NatWest  that it has a duty to 
treat them fairly over their capacity to do so. If Mr and Mr N thought it was failing them in its 
future dealings, they can complain afresh.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint 
in part only.  
I order that National Westminster Bank  Plc cannot recover  any money owed  by Mr N 
under the 2012 loan agreement from Mrs Ns share in the equity of the property charged 
to it by way of the 2001 legal charge. I make no other order or award.   
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means 
Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44769363CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a business loan Mr N took out with National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
in 2012 in relation to his business as a sole trader. The loan, which  repaid his business overdraft, was 
secured by a legal charge  given by him and Mrs N in 2001 over their jointly-owned home. The 
complaint, in essence,  is that NatWest:
mis-sold the loan because it takes Mr N into his eighties, took no account of his ability to pay it 
after he stopped  trading, and gave him no other options;
has charged an excessively  high interest rate on the loan;
made no attempt to tell Mrs N of the arrangement;  
didnt help him when he stopped trading in 2018; and
didnt investigate the complaint properly.
background
The loan started in 2012; it was for £70,000, repayable over twenty years. For the first ten years, 
interest is charged at a fixed rate, thereafter  it will switch  to a variable rate comprising Base Rate plus 
5.75%. The loan replaced a business overdraft that NatWest had come to regard as permanent, 
hence raising  concerns about its repayment. 
NatWest says replacing the overdraft with a loan created  a schedule for repayment of the debt; Mr N 
says he was to all intents and purposes forced into it without discussing any other alternative or how 
hed make the monthly payments (a little over £600).
Mr and Mrs Ns other major  concern is the lack of information given to Mrs N. Although the loan is 
solely in Mr Ns name (as was the overdraft it replaced), the security for the loan is a legal  charge  
given by both of them  over their home, in September 2001.  NatWest has said the legal charge was 
signed in the presence of solicitors and that the loan agreement recommended Mr N take legal advice  
before entering  into it.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs N have  asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. Theyre looking for £15,000 to be written off the debt; £10,000 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience and £5,000 for the failure to provide proper 
documentation showing  that both of them agreed to the current situation
my provisional  findings
Ill start with some general observations. Were  not the regulator of financial businesses,  and we dont 
police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. We deal with individual disputes  between businesses  and their customers. In doing  that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  on how we investigate  a complaint. We 
conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions  without interference  from anyone  else.  But in 
doing so, we have to work  within the rules of the ombudsman service, and the remit  those  rules give 
us
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit  is to take an overview and decide 
whats fair in the round.
Ref: DRN44769364Ill start with the allegation  that the loan itself was mis-sold  in 2012. I know Mr and Mrs N both feel 
very strongly  about this, but I cant fairly find that the loan was mis-sold. Its important first of all to 
remember that the loan didnt create a new debt that didnt already exist. Mr N already owed the 
money to the bank; all the loan did was create a timetable  for repaying it rather have it continue 
indefinitely with no indication that it would be repaid. Meanwhile,  Mr N knew how old he was at the 
time of taking it out, and therefore how old hed be when it was due to be repaid.
Im not sure Mr and Mrs N have given  enough to thought to what  their situation would be now if 
NatWest hadnt provided the loan.  Mr N has said hed have preferred to continue with the overdraft  in 
the expectation  that improved trading would  allow  him to make  inroads into it. I dont  find that a very 
persuasive argument,  not least because Mr N has also told us that after the loan was taken out, he 
had to request  a new overdraft facility  of £10,000.  
That doesnt  suggest to me that hed have been able to pay down the overdraft he already  had. In all 
likelihood, it seem  to me that, but for the loan in 2012,  Mr N would have ceased trading  in 2018 
probably owing more  on the overdraft than he currently owes on the loan, and still needing to 
negotiate a plan to repay it.
As far as the interest rate was concerned, its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to set 
rates generally  or to decide what individual rates lenders should charge  when agreeing to lend 
money. Here, NatWest decided the appropriate  rate to charge Mr N, and theres no reasonable basis 
for me to interfere  with its commercial judgement  by saying it should have charged a lesser rate. 
Additionally, Ive seen nothing to suggest NatWest  has charged  more  than the contract allowed  it to, 
and in fairness, thats not what Mr and Mrs N have  argued.  They simply believe  the rate is too high, 
but for the reasons already  set out, thats not a call for me to make.
For me, the real crux of this complaint is the extent to which Mrs N was involved in, and aware of, the 
loan being taken out and secured against  the home she owns jointly  with Mr N. Given its importance, 
Ive put a great deal of thought  into this point, and based on what  Ive seen  so far, Im presently 
minded come to a very different conclusion  from the investigator. 
The security  NatWest relied on when it issued the loan was a legal charge (in effect a mortgage)  over 
their home  Mr and Mrs N had executed in September 2001. That timing is important because  a 
landmark legal case on this scenario (Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc v Etridge (No. 2) [2002]  UKHL 44 - 
Ill refer to it simply as the Etridge case) was decided  in October  2001 in the House  of Lords, just after 
the legal charge  was executed but some eleven years before the loan was taken  out.
The House of Lords  held that for banks to have  a valid security they must ensure that their customers  
have independent legal advice if they are in a couple where the loan will, based on constructive or 
actual knowledge (either suffices), be used solely for the benefit of one person. There  is the 
presumption of undue influence, unless independent legal  advice  is given to the party  who obtains no 
benefit from the transaction.
In this case, Mr N already owed NatWest the money. By converting the overdraft into a loan (which  
was subject  to the legal charge), NatWest turned unsecured debt into secured  debt. In the 
circumstances, the major  benefit of this arrangement is to NatWest, not Mr N and certainly not Mrs N. 
I think  this reinforces the argument that Mrs N should have  been advised  to take independent  legal  
advice at the time the loan was granted.
NatWest has said that the legal charge was signed  in the presence of solicitors.  Whilst  this is likely, I 
have no way of knowing  if thats true because NatWest hasnt provided a copy  of the document  and 
in any event, it was in September 2001. NatWest points to the prominent warning on the loan 
agreement to obtain legal  advice, but that doesnt help the bank in any way. The whole  point of this 
argument is that Mrs N wasnt a party to, and apparently  never  saw, the loan agreement. 
I think  NatWest was required to inform Mrs N and advise her to take independent  legal  advice before 
it granted the loan to Mr N. Ive asked the bank to demonstrate the steps it took in 2012 (NOT 2001) 
Ref: DRN44769365to inform Mrs N of the proposed loan so that she could  take the necessary advice. It hasnt  provided 
any response. That being  so, Im presently minded to find that NatWest cannot recover any money 
owed by Mr N under  the 2012 loan agreement from Mrs Ns share  of the equity in the security  
property.
To be clear,  Im not saying  NatWest could  never take legal action to enforce  its security in court;  that 
would go beyond a fair execution of the powers given  to me by the rules  of the ombudsman  scheme. 
In the event  NatWest did take legal action, Mr and Mrs N could take legal advice  on how my decision 
their complaint might  affect the courts thinking.
On the remaining parts of the complaint,  Id remind  NatWest it has a duty to help borrowers in 
difficulty. The loan is a legitimate debt,  and there are no grounds  for me to order NatWest  to reduce 
the balance or the interest rate specifically  as a resolution to the complaint. But if Mr N comes  to it 
saying hes struggling to pay the loan now that he has retired, it should listen to what he has to say 
and try to help him with a plan that is manageable.  If it doesnt do that, he could make a fresh  
complaint of unfair treatment, and if necessary, refer that complaint to us
As for how NatWest has investigated and dealt with the complaint, I agree  it hasnt done a great job. 
But Im not sure Mr and Mrs N are worse  off because of that. Ultimately, whatever NatWest  said or did 
in response, it seems  to me the complaint was always  going to end up with us, given the fundamental 
gulf between the parties respective positions. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my provisional decision  is that I intend,  subject to the further submissions  
from the parties, to uphold this complaint in part only. If I do so, I will order that National Westminster  
Bank Plc cannot recover any money owed by Mr N under  the 2012 loan agreement  from Mrs Ns 
share in the equity of the property charged to it by way of the 2001 legal charge.  I dont intend to 
make any other order  or award.
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 5 February 2020,  or sooner if both parties confirm  
theyve said and provided  everything they want in response  to this provisional decision. Neither party 
need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4476936