K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs P in 1993  in 
connection with a loan secured on their home. The policy provided cover  for Mr P if he 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs P disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ps needs?
-Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs P the information they needed  to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether 
Mr and Mrs P are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs P say PPI wasnt discussed when  they took out their loan with Halifax,  and they 
didnt know it had been added to their account. 
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr and Mrs P and 
Halifax when the loan was arranged. Halifax hasnt provided  much  documentation from the 
sale, which isnt surprising  as its many years since the policy  was sold. Im also mindful that 
exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Ive noted everything  Mr and Mrs P have said. But without anything else to support what 
theyve told me, I havent been able to safely conclude that Halifax didnt  make  them  aware 
that the PPI was optional. 
Ref: DRN42996352Halifax has accepted  that it advised  Mr and Mrs P to take out the PPI. Based on what  Ive seen of 
their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them.  I say this because:
-Mr P was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions. 
-Mr P says he was entitled  to generous  sick pay from his employer, and that his employer 
provided a form of insurance that wouldve covered him if he couldnt work because  of 
disability. But the PPI policy wouldve paid out in addition  to Mr Ps employer benefits, and 
would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place would mean Mr and Mrs P 
could use Mr Ps employer benefits  to pay for other expenses  if he couldnt work. 
In addition, I cant be sure that the insurance policy from Mr Ps employer wouldve paid 
benefits on the same basis  as the PPI policy.
So overall, from what Ive seen, I think Mr and Mrs P would have had some use for the 
policy despite their existing arrangements.  
-Mr P wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he and Mrs P needed  
better advice or information about  the policys exclusions  and limitations.
-I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs P before they agreed  to buy 
it. But the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely 
Mr and Mrs P would have made  a different decision  if better information about  the cost had 
been provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr P wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs P would have made  
a different decision if better information  had been  provided  overall, I think they would still have 
taken out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4299635