K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2004. Miss V says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
Miss V complained to this Service. Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. 
Miss V disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Vs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Bank of Scotland made it clear on the credit card application form that Miss V 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why she cant remember this.
 Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Miss V so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
 Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Miss V about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss V has said - including what she has said about her stable 
employment, her employee benefits and that the policy was added  automatically. But these  
points dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Miss V paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Miss V back  
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Miss V now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Ref: DRN46989462Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4698946