K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained about AWP P&C SA. He isnt happy that it turned  down  a claim under 
his motor warranty policy.
background
Mr J bought a manufacturer branded warranty in December 2016  to cover any costs incurred 
if his car suffered a breakdown. When his car had an oil leak, which  was caused by a 
problem with the gearbox casing, Mr J made  a claim under his policy and had the gearbox  
replaced.
When Mr J made a claim AWP initially turned  down  the claim as his policy had expired. But 
Mr J said that the problem was initially identified before the policy  expired and explained that 
AWPs repairing garage couldnt do the work at that time as it was the festive  period.  
AWP eventually considered the claim and provided a gearbox free of charge but said that it 
wouldnt pay the entire claim (the labour costs).  This was because  the gearbox  casing would 
only be covered under  the policy when damaged by the failure of an insured component.  
And AWP wasnt  satisfied that it was.
Our adjudicator looked into things for Mr J and he upheld the complaint. He explained that 
the gearbox had been replaced  by the dealer but felt that AWP should  look to deal with the 
remainder of Mr Js claim under the remaining terms of the policy. This was because it didnt 
inspect the gearbox  casing  in order to gauge what caused it to fail or asked the repairing 
garage why it cracked. 
As AWP  didnt respond this complaint has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The consideration of this complaint has been significantly hampered  by AWPs lack of 
response. It hasnt responded  to the adjudicators view, or provided any evidence  in relation 
to why the gearbox (which was an insured part) failed. So, I can only agree with the position 
outlined by the adjudicator. Ill explain why.
Without any evidence  to say why the gearbox  failed or if it contributed  to the casing failing I 
cant be sure why the gearbox  casing cracked.  AWP chose not to inspect this at the time of 
claim, but provided  a new gearbox  and has chosen not to respond to this office when asked 
about this. As such, there is no way of knowing if an insured part (the gearbox) caused  
damage to the gearbox casing and I think that AWP would have to demonstrate  this. 
So, I think the fair and reasonable thing  to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is 
for AWP  to pay Mr Js labour costs less the excess that was due under the policy. It doesnt 
need to contribute to the cost of the gearbox as the dealership provided this. But AWP 
should also pay simple  interest for the period of time Mr J has been without the money he 
paid for the repair. 
Ref: DRN40737982my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C SA 
to pay Mr Js claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions  of the policy.  And pay 
simple interest from the time Mr J paid for the work to be done  to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4073798