K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) hasnt paid him the interest  he
should get on a savings  account. He wants Nationwide  to pay about £900  of lost interest.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January. In that I said I wasnt minded to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint.
A copy of that provisional decision is attached and forms part of this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has accepted my provisional  decision.
Mr B has asked  why we didnt ask Nationwide to get the member  of staff who served him for 
her recollection of what happened. Hes told us it was a woman  and her approximate age. I 
do take his point about her potentially being identified because  she processed the cheque 
he deposited. 
When we asked Nationwide for its records of what it did to investigate Mr Ms complaint,  it 
said it had talked to the branch manager  and checked all available systems.  It found no 
record of any discussion about  opening  a new account between Mr M and a member of staff.  
I dont think it unreasonable that it wouldnt record a conversation about the types of account 
available, as thats providing information rather than carrying out instructions.
I think it highly unlikely  that any member of staff, who would deal with enquiries  about 
accounts all the time,  would recall one specific conversation from more than two years  ago. 
This also doesnt affect the fact that Mr B didnt  check  the paperwork  Nationwide sent him 
shortly after this and annually thereafter, which alerted  him to the interest  rate on his 
account. I can understand why Mr B says that if hed been given the new rate it wouldnt 
have mattered whether  he checked  the paperwork or not. That might be so, but it doesnt 
mean Nationwide didnt give him enough  information to check the rate he was getting and do 
something about it if he so wished.
Finally, Mr B corrected me on the way I described our question  to him about  when  he 
discovered the rate wasnt what he expected. Im sorry if my summary didnt use the exact  
words he recalls  but the intention was to show wed asked about when and what  made  him 
open a new account, and we got that information.  It didnt affect my decision.
I havent seen  any new evidence that persuades me I should change  my provisional 
decision. I know this isnt what Mr B wants to hear,  but Im not upholding his complaint.
Ref: DRN46203012my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN46203013Copy of provisional  decision issued January 2019
complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) hasnt paid him the interest  
he should get on a savings account.  He wants Nationwide to pay about £900 of lost 
interest.
background
Mr B had a savings  account with Nationwide. In April 2016 He says he went into a branch 
to pay in a substantial amount (about £35,000)  and asked  about interest  rates. He says he 
believed hed paid his money  into an account  attracting a higher rate of interest.
In June 2018  Mr B realised he wasnt being  paid the higher rate of interest. He opened a 
new account and transferred  the balance of his old account to the new, so he would get 
a higher rate going forwards.
He then complained to Nationwide, which said it had never agreed to increase  the rate on 
his old account.  It says the only way to get more interest  was if Mr B opened a new 
account which paid a higher rate, and he didnt do that. And it said it had sent Mr B annual  
statements telling him the name of his account,  the interest rate and how much interest 
had been paid. So Nationwide thought Mr B should have been aware of the interest he 
was earning no later than July 2016, when it sent the first statement.
Mr B told us that he didnt  think  the letters he got from Nationwide  were  about the interest  
he was receiving, so didnt take much notice  of them. So he was unaware  he was getting  
much less interest than he thought.
Our investigator looked at what had happened and concluded Mr B had most likely 
thought he had arranged to get a higher  rate of interest by the time he left the branch. 
And he thought  the paperwork sent out by Nationwide looked more  like marketing 
material than an annual  statement.  His view was that Nationwide  should compensate Mr 
B by calculating  how much  interest Mr B would have received at the higher rate for about 
two years.
Nationwide objected to this, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information given to us by both parties. And Ive reached  a very 
different conclusion from that of our investigator. As Ive done  that, I think  it only fair that 
both parties, but especially Mr B, have a chance  to send  any more evidence  that they 
might have before I reach a final decision.
Ref: DRN46203014Mr B says he went into the branch to pay in a substantial cheque  about £35,000, and 
was told he could get a better rate of interest  than he was currently receiving on his 
savings account.  He says he thinks thats  what he arranged before he left the branch.
Nationwide says there was a better  rate of interest  available  but to get that rate Mr B 
would have had to close his old account  and open  a new one. It says it doesnt have a 
record of what might have been said at the time, but theres no record  of a request  for, or 
the opening of, a new account at the time.
Theres clearly  a difference  here between Mr Bs recollections and Nationwides.  Our 
investigator thought  Mr Bs version  was the more persuasive. And I understand why he 
thought that, as it does  seem sensible for Mr B to take advantage of a higher rate if one 
is available.
However, Im not currently persuaded by this train of thought. Nationwide says the higher 
rate was available, but the only way for Mr B to get this higher rate was to open a new 
account. I think  if Mr B had asked for that, rather than simply enquiring about rates, hed 
have had to fill in forms (as he did in 2018 when he eventually opened a new account). 
And there would, most likely, have been a record of his request. Im willing to reconsider 
this point if Mr B had more evidence to support his recollections.
Mr B also told us he didnt think the letters he got about interest rates were relevant to him 
 so he didnt  pay much attention to them. Our investigator didnt think they made it clear 
enough that they contained important information about Mr Bs account. Im afraid I 
currently disagree with that point of view.
Mr B thought  hed changed his account to one paying a higher rate in April 2016. A couple 
of months later Nationwide sent him a letter headed  Your annual Savings Promise  
Statement is here. And next to that is a highlighted box saying how much Mr B had in his 
account on 30 June   just over £35,000. I think thats enough  to alert Mr B to the fact that 
this was a letter about his savings account,  rather than a marketing letter.
The letter goes on to give details of all the accounts  Mr B held with Nationwide, the rate 
of interest and how much money was in the account. I think  this clearly  shows Mr B only 
had one account, and was receiving  the lower  rate of interest, even though  he had a 
high balance. I think this should have  prompted him to check  why the rate was low, if it 
wasnt what he expected.
I do accept that the statement showed him how much interest hed earned in the previous 
tax year,  and Mr B may not have  expected  that to be significant.  But I dont think  that 
clouds the information he got about  his current balance and interest  rates.
Mr B received a similar statement the following  year  by which time hed paid another
£22,000 into the account. The information was presented in much  the same way. And 
this time, the interest for the previous tax year was relevant  it shows  about  £43 of 
interest, when Mr B would have been expecting about  £400 if hed changed  his account. 
Again I think there was enough information to prompt Mr B to make enquiries  if this 
wasnt what he expected.
I cant see that Mr B made any enquiries  about  this. We asked  why he opened the new 
account in 2018, but he said he couldnt  remember exactly  what prompted him to do 
that.
Ref: DRN46203015Taking all of the above into account, Im not currently intending to uphold this complaint.
my provisional decision
Im not intending to uphold this complaint. But as I said above,  Ill take into account any 
new information sent before the date above  before I make a final decision.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4620301