K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about delays caused  by the Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
in paying the maturity  value of their policy. They want the redress  offered for the delay 
increased.
background
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint was upheld.  In summary,  there were  delays in arranging a letter 
of no further interest  from a former lender  who had a charge on the policy. That, together  
with some other delays,  meant that the maturity payment to Mr and Mrs P was made later 
than the business  service standards said it should have been.
The business agreed to pay a sum of interest  for the delay plus a small amount for the 
trouble and upset  caused. Unhappy Mr and Mrs P came to us. One of our adjudicators 
looked at the file. He thought the business offer was enough. Mr and Mrs P didnt  accept the 
adjudicators view.
The complaint was then reviewed by another adjudicator. She thought that the payment 
offered by the business wasnt enough.  She thought the interest  should  cover a longer  
period and the trouble  and upset award  should  be more.
The business thought that was wrong.  As the parties couldnt agree I have been asked to 
issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I uphold  this complaint as 
the second adjudicator did before me.
This is simply  about delay. When Mr and Mrs Ps policy matured payment of the money  
couldnt be made. Quite rightly the business  saw that the policy had been assigned  to a 
lender in the past. That meant that the money  couldnt be sent to Mr and Mrs P without  the 
former lender agreeing it had no claim  on the policy. It was mainly  the process for obtaining 
that agreement  or notice of no further  interest which resulted in most of the delay.
The business accepted that some delay had been  caused for which it was responsible. It 
offered interest  for that delay and a small amount for the trouble caused. However it is clear 
that under  the process now operated by the business it aims to contact lenders or charge  
holders six months  before a policy  matures.  
That gives  time for former  lenders and others  to respond and sort out any possible claims 
before the policy matures. That is very helpful and it is good that the business is doing that. 
The difficulty  here is that it didnt do it. That means that Mr and Mrs P have not been treated 
as fairly  as other  policyholders. 
The issue  of a charge which was no longer needed hadnt been  dealt with before the policy  
matured. The second adjudicator thought that meant  the business should  pay interest from 4 
working days after maturity (the standard for payment  times  set by the business). 
Ref: DRN45821092The business says the interest  shouldnt go back that far. It thinks  interest should start from 
the point when it got the notice of no further  interest. I have to say I agree with the second 
adjudicator. I can see why the business is unhappy with that. But not to do that would, in my 
view, disadvantage  Mr and Mrs P when tested  against the standards set by the business 
for other policyholders.
Given what happened and the speed of the response from the former charge  holder I think  it 
more likely than not that the other  business  would have responded within the same time had 
it been contacted earlier. Therefore, exactly as the business intends  for its policyholders, the 
proceeds would have been  payable  from the date of maturity (in fact a few days  later to meet  
the service standard set which I think entirely  reasonable).
As regards  the additional payment for distress  and inconvenience proposed by the 
adjudicator I agree that £100  is more appropriate. These things  are of course very much a 
matter of judgment. However £50 feels  insufficient  for what Mr and Mrs P have been  
through.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I direct that the Prudential Assurance Company Limited calculate 
and pay interest at 8% simple from the fourth working day after the policy matured  to the 
date of payment  of the maturity proceeds.  Any payment already made should be deducted 
from that figure. It should also pay an additional £100 for trouble  and upset on top of its 
original offer,  less any such payment already made. 
If the business is advised to deduct tax from the interest it may do so. However  if it does it 
must provide a tax deduction certificate  to allow any possible refund to be applied for.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Mike Boyall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4582109