K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about the way American  Express Services  Europe Limited (Amex) handled  
his claim under section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974  (CCA)  in relation to a shower 
unit he bought  using his credit card.
background
Mr D bought an ex-display shower  unit from the premises of a supplier I shall call B in 
November 2016  for £400. He paid the full cost on his Amex  credit card.  Mr D says he 
explained to the salesman in the shop that he didnt need one of the side panels that came 
with the shower  as he was fitting it into an alcove  in a wall. Mr D says he was told by the 
salesman that he had to purchase the side panel  as it came as part of the shower unit. Mr D 
isnt happy about this as he says he was pressured  into buying something  he didnt need. 
Mr D says he also experienced the following  problems with the shower unit:
when he arranged to collect  the shower from B, it hadnt  been suitably wrapped and it 
sustained damage during subsequent storage as a result.  
when it was time to fit the shower he noticed the waste unit was missing  and the 
seals were discoloured. Mr D had to buy a new waste unit at a cost of £27.50
Mr D asked Amex to perform a chargeback so he could get a refund of the money  he paid 
for the shower. Amex said it asked Mr D to send some evidence in support of his 
chargeback but said he never sent it back so he ran out of time to perform the chargeback. 
Mr D disagrees  with this version  of events and says Amex told him it wouldnt continue with 
the chargeback  once  he told it hed involved the furniture ombudsman. 
Mr D says he asked the furniture ombudsman to get involved. As part of this process he 
says B came  and looked at the shower and agreed it would replace the seals  and pay him 
£50. Mr D says the furniture ombudsman ended its involvement in the case at this point but 
B never replaced the seals.  
Mr D then made a claim against Amex  under  section  75 of the CCA. Amex declined  his 
claim because  it felt the part of the shower he was complaining about  cost less than £100 
and therefore  the transaction was not within the financial limits necessary for a section 75 
claim. It also said it believed Bs offer of £50 compensated  Mr D for any losses  hed suffered. 
I issued a provisional decision in June 2020 where I explained why I thought Mr Ds 
complaint should  be upheld  in part. I said:
Chargeback
Chargeback is a process through which a bank or credit card provider can have a 
payment returned  to its customer in certain  circumstances  via the relevant card 
network. Mr D didnt  have a right to a chargeback, but Id expect AMEX to have 
attempted one as a matter of good practice seeing as Mr D seemed to have a 
legitimate problem with the goods  hed purchased from B. 
Ref: DRN42334792Mr D says he asked Amex to carry out a chargeback  when he realised there was a 
part missing  from the shower.  Mr D and Amex  have differing accounts of why a 
chargeback was never performed but I dont think it matters here. Mr D says he 
wanted to chargeback the whole cost of the shower. But I think  its unlikely this would 
have succeeded  as Mr D kept the shower  and had in fact already ordered the 
replacement part while he was in discussions with Amex  about the chargeback.  I 
think its very likely  B would have defended any attempt at chargeback  for this reason 
as Mr D hadnt attempted to return the whole  shower unit and the missing part was 
easily remedied by providing a new part. 
Section 75 claim
When considering  whats fair and reasonable in this complaint, I must take into 
account amongst  other things, relevant law. Section 75 of the CCA is relevant to this 
complaint. This says,  in certain  circumstances, the borrower under a credit  
agreement has an equal right to claim against  the credit provider if theres  been  a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier of goods or services  
providing certain conditions are met.
One of these conditions is that the claim must relate to any single  item to which the 
supplier has attached a cash price  of more than £100. 
When Amex first turned down Mr Ds section  75 claim, it said he had purchased  a 
number of single items  comprising  the overall  shower (doors,  glass panels,  waste 
tray etc.). It said that because each of these items  were priced  at £100 or less he 
didnt have a valid a claim in respect of them. However, it has since  agreed with our 
investigator that the whole  shower  unit was the single item  priced at £400.  
I agree  with the investigator also. Although the invoice from B to Mr D does list the 
various parts of the shower with their individual  prices  listed next to them, Mr D has 
said he was told by B that he had to purchase the whole shower unit, including  parts  
he says he didnt need. So, it seems most likely  that the unit was being sold as a 
whole. And given the very nature of the shower  unit in this case,  i.e. it was the sum of 
various connecting individual but co-dependent parts, I think its most likely  the single 
item was the whole shower unit. This was priced at £400 so it was within the 
necessary financial  limits for a claim under section 75. 
Waste tray 
The invoice from B to Mr D clearly shows that a waste tray was supposed  to come as 
part of the shower  unit. There doesnt seem  to be any dispute that Mr D never 
received this and hes provided evidence that he ordered another tray from B a few 
weeks after he purchased  the unit. So Mr D didnt  get what  he paid for in breach of 
the contract  between him and B. 
B offered to put this right by paying  Mr D £50, which was a little more than the cost of 
the new tray. Weve  asked Amex if this offer is still available  from B but its told us in 
all likelihood it isnt because B is no longer trading. It wouldnt be fair for Mr D to end 
up out of pocket here. So, if the offer is not available from B any longer its only fair 
that Amex should pay Mr D the cost of the new tray of £27.50.  
Ref: DRN42334793Amex says Bs offer was available  for Mr D to accept for a long time so he should 
have accepted it previously. But Mr D has a right to pursue  Amex  under section 75 
and he is still out of pocket as a result of Bs breach of contract as Im satisfied he 
hasnt received the £50 from it. So, I dont accept this as a reason not to reimburse 
Mr D.
The additional money that made up Bs offer of £50 was compensation for distress 
and inconvenience  it had caused  Mr D. However,  Im looking  here at what  Amex 
should be responsible for so I cant simply say that it should  honour this part of the 
offer made by B. Section  75 gives Mr D a like claim against AMEX  if there  has been 
a breach of contract or misrepresentation  by B. So, I must give consideration to what 
losses Mr D would likely be able to recover in court against B when considering  what  
the like claim might  look like. Im mindful  when doing this that courts  dont typically 
tend to make  awards for non-financial losses such as distress and inconvenience for 
breach of contract apart  from in limited circumstances  (which  I dont think  would be 
likely to apply here). 
Taking this into account when deciding overall what is fair and reasonable in this 
case, I dont think  it would fair to require Amex to pay Mr D compensation for distress  
and inconvenience  that was caused  by Bs actions. 
Damage after delivery
Mr D says B didnt put all of the pieces of the shower in protective packaging before 
he collected them from it and this led to them becoming damaged once he stored 
them at his house. It would have of course  been  more helpful if B had wrapped  the 
shower pieces. But I dont find this amounted to a breach of the contract between B 
and Mr D as Ive not seen anything to show B agreed it would  wrap  the items for Mr 
D and this was an ex display unit which Mr D had agreed to pick up from B. In any 
event, Mr D says the damage that occurred happened while  the goods were  being 
stored. So, he could  have taken his own precautions by this point to protect the items  
and mitigate his losses. Overall, I dont  find it would be fair to hold Amex responsible 
for putting this damage right. 
Discoloured seals
Mr D says that upon installation of the shower he noticed that some of the plastic  
seals had become discoloured. He said that after coming and inspecting the shower 
B agreed  that it would replace the seals but never  did this. Its not clear  that B did 
agree this and the email communications Ive seen between  Mr D and the furniture 
ombudsman seem to suggest  that it didnt. However  even if it did, I still need to 
consider whether the issue with the seals is a breach of contract that Amex  should be 
responsible for putting right. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  implied a term in the contract  between  Mr D and B 
that any goods supplied would be of satisfactory  quality. Whats  satisfactory  is 
determined by what a reasonable  person would consider to be satisfactory  taking into 
account the price, the description  and other  relevant factors. 
The shower unit Mr D purchased was an ex-display model  and he paid less than 
what he would have  for a brand new one. I dont  think a reasonable person would 
therefore expect  the shower to be in the same condition as it would have  been  if it 
Ref: DRN42334794was brand new. Ive not been  provided  with evidence that leads me to conclude the 
seals were in worse condition than a reasonable person would expect for an ex-
display unit when Mr D bought the shower. And in any event,  I think its likely this 
discolouration would have  been evident  from a visual inspection  before Mr D decided  
to purchase the shower. 
So overall, from what Ive seen, I dont think the issue with the seals  meant the 
shower was of unsatisfactory quality and I dont require Amex  to do anything in 
respect of it. 
Side panel 
Mr D says he was told by B that he had to purchase  the side panel as part of the 
shower unit even though  he didnt  need  it. As Ive explained above, I think Mr Ds 
contract with C was for the whole shower unit rather than the numerous individual  
items it comprised of. If this wasnt the case, then I find it unlikely Mr D would even  
have a valid claim under section 75 for the parts he is unhappy with because  they all 
cost lower than the financial  limit for making a claim under section 75. 
So, seeing  as Mr D bought a single  item,  I find it unlikely he would have been able to 
pick and choose which parts he didnt want to pay for  much in the same  way for 
example that one couldnt discard  DVDs they wanted from a boxset in a shop and 
have the price of the boxset reduced. It seems  most  likely the unit was offered for 
sale as an all or nothing  purchase.  
Overall, I find Amex  should pay Mr D the cost of the new waste  tray he had to buy 
from B. But I find this is the extent  of its liability to Mr D in this complaint.
I asked Amex to pay Mr D £27.50  plus interest  of 8% simple  per year from date he paid it. 
Amex said it didnt disagree entirely  with my provisional decision but did question  whether it 
was fair to award  8% interest  on £5 of the £27.50 as it was for delivery which was perhaps 
not entirely necessary when the new part could have been collected  in store.  
Mr D responded and said, in summary:
The matter was raised before the supplier  went into administration so should  have 
been resolved  earlier.  
Amex did initiate  a chargeback and put the money in his account but reversed  this 
and told him that it was too late to raise  one. 
it is not fair that he continued to pay interest  on the amount he paid when he 
considered it in dispute.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For clarity,  references to a waste tray in my provisional decision should  be taken as 
references to the waste  unit that was missing from the shower  when Mr D purchased  it. 
Ref: DRN42334795Ive considered what Amex has said about the £5 delivery charge on the new waste unit and 
whether it is fair to award interest of 8% on this amount. I think what  Amex is effectively 
saying is that Mr D failed  to mitigate his losses by paying for the part to be delivered rather 
than picking it up himself  in store at no cost to him  so he shouldnt be paid interest on this 
sum. However, given  the inconvenience Mr D had already  been  put to with the missing 
waste unit, I dont  find it was unreasonable for him to have the part delivered  rather  than pick 
it up to minimise any further  inconvenience.  I dont think in doing  so he failed  to mitigate  any 
consequential losses. So, I do think the full amount Mr D paid for the new waste unit of 
£27.50 attracts  interest  at 8%. 
Ive thought also about Mr Ds comments in response to my provisional decision. 
I understand Mr Ds frustration that the chargeback process was not completed  in full. It is 
common for a lender  to put funds in its customers account when a chargeback  is raised 
pending the outcome of the chargeback  process. But in this case  the chargeback  was never  
put through so the funds  were taken back out again. I explained in my provisional decision 
that whoever may have been responsible  for the chargeback not going ahead, I dont think  it 
would have succeeded anyway. For a chargeback attempt to be successful the merchants 
bank must  agree for the funds to be returned to the paying customers bank (or a successful 
referral to arbitration).  This usually involves the merchants bank asking questions  of the 
merchant about  the transaction being  charged back.  In this case, I think  such  a line of 
questioning would have resulted in the merchants bank defending the chargeback   
because Mr D was asking  to charge  back  the whole cost of the shower yet he still had the 
shower unit and it was only missing one piece which he had since acquired.
From what  I have  seen, Amex did write to Mr D on a few occasions  asking for more 
evidence to support  the chargeback. Mr D says he was told something different when he 
spoke to a representative at Amex.   However, because I dont find Mr D lost out as a result 
of the chargeback not proceeding in full I dont think it makes a difference in this case. 
Mr D questions whether its fair that he had to pay interest on the transaction while  there was 
a dispute. However,  since Mr D bought the shower  he has been in possession  of it and had 
the benefit of it for all but a very short period of time while he waited for the new waste  unit. I 
see no reason in this case why it would have been fair for Amex  to suspend interest on the 
transaction. And Mr D will be reimbursed for his consequential losses along  with interest on 
that sum so I do not think he is out pocket  here.  
Having considered the additional comments from parties since  my provisional decision, Ive 
not seen anything that makes me think I should change the conclusions  I reached. I still 
uphold Mr Ds complaint  in part and for the same  reasons I gave in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part. To put things right 
American Express Services Europe Limited  must  pay Mr D £27.50 plus simple  interest  at 8% 
per annum  from the date he paid this amount to B until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2020.
*If American Express Services Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. 
Ref: DRN42334796It should also give Mr D a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Michael Ball
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4233479