K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mr B bought the policy when he took out a loan in 2001. The loan included an amount to pay 
for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint because:
The PPI was described as optional on Mr Bs signed credit agreement. And a box was 
marked to indicate Mr B wanted it. While  the adjacent  box to indicate  he didnt want it 
was left blank.  So I think Lloyds  made  Mr B aware that he had a choice about buying  the 
PPI, and that he chose  to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B  and it seems to have been right for him based 
on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. The PPI wouldve made his loan 
repayments for him if hed been unable  to work   until the loan was paid off if he was off 
sick and for up to 12 months if he was unemployed. Thats longer than his sick pay 
wouldve lasted, and he had no other  way of making repayments if he couldnt work. 
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even  if it 
had, I think Mr B would still have bought it.
Given how long the policy  could have paid out for, if Mr B made  a successful claim he 
couldve got back quite a bit more than he paid for it. 
Mr B wouldve  got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the 
policy early.  I dont  know if Lloyds thought  about this when it recommended the policy, or 
if it explained the situation clearly  to Mr B. But I havent seen anything to suggest he 
thought hed repay the loan early.  So I dont think that clear information about  this 
wouldve stopped  him buying it.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr B 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things.
Ive taken into account Mr Bs comments.  But these points dont change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN47076102my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4707610