K821x#15complaint
Mr Y complains that TenetConnect Limited has failed to provide him with appropriate levels 
of service in relation to pension benefits he transferred from an occupational pension  
scheme. Specifically he says TenetConnect did not carry out the annual  reviews it offered, 
the original investment targets were  unachievable, it failed to act on his concerns about the 
investment choices made by the discretionary fund manager (DFM), and that it didnt take 
responsibility for the advice it provided,  instead  blaming the DFM for the investment 
performance.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
April 2021. An extract from this is attached and forms  part of this final decision, so I will not 
repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was only minded to uphold  a part of the complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. TenetConnect has 
not provided us with anything further. Mr Y provided us with some comments. Although  I am 
only summarising here what Mr Y has said, I have  considered his entire response carefully 
before writing this decision.
Mr Y doesnt  agree  with my provisional  findings. In particular he says;
The DFM was appointed by TenetConnect, and it was TenetConnect that he had a 
direct relationship with.
It was TenetConnect  that recommended the particular DFM he used.
The DFM had a large financial interest in TenetConnect.
A large  proportion (circa  40%) of his pension savings was invested  in a fund that had 
no available public  information on its performance. So it isnt possible for his financial 
advisors to demonstrate  this advice was suitable.
That fund was designed to achieve a low volatility on his investments  he says that it 
failed to achieve that objective
TenetConnect had a legal obligation to monitor the recommendations of the DFM.  He 
says it failed to do this due to the conflict of interest. An alternative DFM  should  have 
been chosen given his concerns at the initial stages.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am not minded to 
alter the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. But I would like to comment  
further on the points that Mr Y has raised.
As I explained in my provisional decision I think much of the responsibility  for the 
performance of Mr Ys pension investments sits with the DFM rather than TenetConnect. 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think that TenetConnect  failed in its responsibilities to 
Mr Y as a result of any financial interest  the DFM  might have held in it.
I have been persuaded that Mr Y was fully aware of the way in which  the DFM proposed  
investing his pension savings. I entirely  accept that he had reservations about the approach 
that had been suggested. But I have also concluded  that despite any reservations Mr Y 
agreed for the transfer of his pension savings and their investment as per the original 
Ref: DRN43251142proposal. It was for the DFM to agree the investment  targets with Mr Y, and I dont conclude 
that any underperformance was the responsibility of TenetConnect.
So I reiterate  the findings I explained in my provisional decision. In summary, I dont think 
that the advice  TenetConnect  gave  to Mr Y was inappropriate. Although the investment 
returns that were needed were stretching,  I dont think that, at the time, they should have 
been considered unlikely  or unachievable.  I think that ultimately  it is likely that TenetConnect 
gained Mr Ys agreement  to the investment  approach  that was suggested  by the DFM. And it 
was the DFMs responsibility to attempt to ensure that the targeted investment returns  were  
achieved. But I dont  think that TenetConnect did enough in terms of the on-going  servicing 
arrangement it had with Mr Y, and so needs to pay him some  compensation.
putting things right
I dont think the ongoing  servicing  provided by TenetConnect on Mr Ys pension investments 
was reasonable.  So I direct  TenetConnect to refund any annual  charges it has received. Had 
those charges not been taken the funds would have remained invested  in Mr Ys SIPP.  So 
TenetConnect should increase the refunded charges in line with the returns  that they would 
have achieved if they remained invested.  The calculation should  be performed for each 
charge from the date it was taken to the date of settlement.
Any compensation should be paid back into Mr Ys SIPP. If TenetConnect is unable to pay 
the compensation into Mr Y's pension plan due to allowance or protection issues, it should  
pay that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance 
should be calculated  using Mr Y's actual or expected marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
I have assessed  it likely  that marginal rate would be 40%.
my final decision
My final decision, for the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, is that I uphold 
a part of Mr Ys complaint  and direct TenetConnect Limited to put things right as detailed 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN43251143EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr Y complains that TenetConnect Limited  has failed to provide  him with appropriate levels  of service  
in relation to pension benefits he transferred from an occupational pension scheme. Specifically he 
says TenetConnect did not carry out the annual reviews  it offered, the original  investment targets  
were unachievable, it failed to act on his concerns about the investment choices made by the 
discretionary fund manager  (DFM),  and that it didnt take responsibility for the advice  it provided, 
instead blaming the DFM  for the investment performance.
background
Mr Y had a significant deferred pension benefit  from a former occupational pension scheme. In 2013 
the trustees of that scheme  wrote to Mr Y to advise him of some new scheme rules  relating to the 
possible transfer of benefits  to an insurance company, and thus increasing the flexibility of those 
benefits. The trustees  offered to pay for independent financial advice for members  in relation to this 
potential transfer and appointed a firm of advisors to perform that task.
The firm appointed by the trustees was an appointed  representative of TenetConnect. So although  
Mr Y didnt have any direct  dealings with TenetConnect,  it is that firm that is responsible for the advice 
he was given.  For ease, throughout this decision, I will generally refer to TenetConnect  as the 
responsible business.
TenetConnect met with Mr Y in late 2013 and discussed his personal circumstances. The majority  of 
his retirement savings  were in the occupational pension scheme. But Mr Y also had a much smaller 
personal pension. Mr Y was still working at that time, and didnt plan to retire for a further two years.
Following that meeting  TenetConnect  advised Mr Y to transfer his pension  savings from the 
occupational scheme into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) provided by a company I will 
call S. It further advised him that the transferred benefits should be managed by Ss discretionary fund 
management service (DFM). Mr Y accepted the recommendation and transferred his pension  savings 
to S. Mr Y then immediately took a tax-free pension  commencement lump  sum (PCLS) of £375,000.
At the time of the transfer Mr Y expressed some concerns to TenetConnect about the investment 
approach being proposed by the DFM. Around a third of his fund was being  invested into what was 
termed a strategic investment allocation fund  that fund was intended  to manage the overall  volatility 
of his portfolio by smoothing investment returns and allowing the DFM to realise the intended critical 
yield. But it doesnt seem any changes were made to the investment approach,  and in 2018 Mr Y 
complained to TenetConnect about the service  it had provided to him.
When it looked into Mr Ys complaint TenetConnect agreed  that it hadnt provided the review  
meetings that he had paid for by way of part of his servicing fees. So it offered to refund half the fees 
Mr Y had paid between  2013, when  the SIPP  was started, and 2017  when Mr Ys advisor stopped 
being an appointed representative of TenetConnect.  It also agreed that it had failed to implement, in a 
timely manner,  Mr Ys instructions to change the beneficiaries of his pension funds. Although that 
delay hadnt ultimately caused any financial loss to Mr Y, TenetConnect acknowledged that it would 
have caused him some  distress and concern so offered  a further payment in respect of that.
But TenetConnect didnt accept that it should  be held responsible for the investment strategy  applied 
to Mr Ys pension  investments  it said that was the responsibility of the DFM.  And it says that it 
specifically discussed  the allocation of some of Mr Ys portfolio to the strategic investment allocation 
fund with Mr Y and his advisor on a conference  call. Following that meeting  TenetConnect says that 
Mr Y signed the relevant  paperwork to complete the transfer. So it thinks it likely that, at that time, 
Mr Y had accepted the fund allocation proposed  by the DFM.
Ref: DRN43251144Mr Y didnt accept TenetConnects offer so brought his complaint to this Service.  His complaint has 
been reviewed by one of our adjudicators. The adjudicator looked  at the advice that had been given to 
Mr Y in relation  to the initial transfer of his pension  benefits. He didnt think that advice had been 
appropriate and thought that Mr Y should have been advised  to leave his benefits with the 
occupational scheme. So he thought that the complaint should be upheld, and he asked 
TenetConnect to pay Mr Y some compensation in line with the pensions review  methodology  set out 
by the regulator.
TenetConnect didnt agree  with that assessment.  And it thought our adjudicator had misinterpreted 
the complaint that Mr Y had made. It didnt  think that Mr Y had complained about the advice hed 
been given to move his pension savings, but instead had complained about the investment 
performance and on-going servicing  hed received from the company. In summary it said the 
following:
The income  needed by Mr Y in retirement for essential and non-essential expenditure  
amounted to 2.5% of the overall  fund value.  Mr Y could therefore afford to take some risks 
with his retirement fund.
The flexibility that Mr Y wanted, and was recorded in the suitability  report, could  only be 
achieved through a transfer of his pension savings.
The loss of guaranteed income  and the additional risks were explained  to Mr Y.
But having reviewed the matter further it increased its offer to Mr Y, as a gesture of goodwill,  to 
include all the servicing fees that hed paid between 2013 and 2017.
Mr Y didnt accept that offer. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed 
to me, an ombudsman,  to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
At the start of this decision,  when outlining  the complaint  that has been made, I have carefully noted 
what Mr Y told TenetConnect when  he first made his complaint. I would tend to agree  with 
TenetConnect that the original complaint  didnt explicitly mention  the initial  advice to transfer Mr Ys 
pension savings.  But Mr Y did refer to the targeted growth rate and its achievability. I think  that the 
transfer advice is inextricably linked to the matters Mr Y has complained  about. He received a single  
piece of advice  namely to transfer  his pension  savings  and then invest them using the DFM.  I dont 
think it would be reasonable to separate these into different events  they were both interdependent 
on each other.
So my starting point in looking at this complaint should be whether  it was suitable for TenetConnect  to 
advise Mr Y to move  his pension savings from the occupational scheme to a new SIPP. And then 
I will go on to consider  whether the services TenetConnect  provided to Mr Y to help him manage 
those new investments were  in line with what it promised, and what  Mr Y paid for.
What were TenetConnects regulatory obligations?
Within the FCAs  handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business  to act honestly, fairly  and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs  suitability  rules and guidance that applied at the time TenetConnect advised  Mr Y were set 
out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated businesses, like 
TenetConnect, take reasonable steps to provide advice  that is suitable for their clients needs and to 
ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment objective  and risk 
profile.
Ref: DRN43251145In order  to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements of COBS 9.2.2R, TenetConnect 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident  that its advice met Mr Ys objectives  
and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement  for a regulated 
advisory business  to undertake a fact find process. 
There were  also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined benefit 
schemes  these were  contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2  required the following:
A firm must:
(1)compare the benefits  likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under  a defined benefits 
pension scheme or other  pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the benefits 
afforded by a personal pension scheme,  stakeholder  pension scheme or other pension  
scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises  a retail  client to transfer out of a defined  
benefits pension  scheme or other  pension scheme with safeguarded  benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to make an 
informed decision;
(3) give the client  a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention  to the factors that do 
and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case  no later than when  the key 
features document  is provided;  and
(4) take reasonable  steps  to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and its 
advice.
Under the heading Suitability , COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined  benefits occupational  
pension scheme or other  scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to transfer,  convert or opt-out, 
a firm should  start by assuming that a transfer,  conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should 
only then consider a transfer,  conversion  or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out  is in the clients best interests.
COBS 19.1.7  also said:
When a firm advises  a retail  client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension opt-out,  it 
should consider the clients attitude  to risk including, where relevant, in relation to the rate of 
investment growth that would have to be achieved  to replicate the benefits  being  given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability  report  it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal  recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ref: DRN43251146Did TenetConnect  adhere to those requirements?
I think  an important factor here is that TenetConnect was engaged  by Mr Ys former occupational 
scheme to provide advice to members who were  thinking of transferring. And that is how its 
relationship with Mr Y begun. The fee for the advice it was providing was paid by the occupational 
scheme, and so TenetConnect  had little to gain in terms of that fee by providing inappropriate advice 
to Mr Y. But of course by recommending  that he transfer his benefits it did gain from its ongoing 
servicing relationship with Mr Y  although he was entirely free to use an alternative advisor  for the 
on-going work, or no advisor at all. In fact Mr Y did change his advisor shortly before he made his 
complaint to TenetConnect.
The fact find that TenetConnect did with Mr Y before giving him some advice noted some key issues 
that needed to be addressed. It established that the value of Mr Ys pension benefits  were  likely  to be 
greater than the lifetime allowance, even after taking account of the enhanced protection  that could be 
applied for. So if Mr Y took his benefits in the normal way from the occupational scheme  he would be 
likely to face a large tax charge at that time. TenetConnect noted that the tax-free pension  
commencement lump sum (PCLS) that Mr Y could take from the occupational  scheme  was capped  at 
£375,000  that was less than the 25% that he could  take if he transferred his benefits. And it noted 
some concerns from Mr Y that his wife would be heavily reliant on his pension provision  so he 
wanted to make sure she, and potentially his daughters, were able to benefit from any pension 
benefits he took.  Whilst the occupational scheme would  provide a dependants pension  at 50% of 
Mr Ys pension  any further benefits would be lost on his, and his wifes, death.
From the information I have  seen, it appears that it was attractive  to Mr Y to be able to access the 
PCLS around that time. I understand that he used the money to pay off his daughters mortgages.  But 
accessing that PCLS also had another impact  it allowed  Mr Y to manage his tax liabilities,  due to 
exceeding the lifetime  allowance, in the most effective manner. By crystallising the majority of his 
pension fund,  he deferred  any future  tax liability until he reached 75 years of age. That wouldnt have  
been something that was open to Mr Y if hed left his pension savings with the occupational  pension 
scheme.
The analysis that was performed for Mr Y suggested that his pension savings,  if transferred  to the 
SIPP, would need to produce investment returns of approximately 5.35%. The analysis  performed  by 
TenetConnect had also established that his attitude  to risk could be best described as on the low side 
of medium. So the report prepared  for Mr Y quite  rightly  noted  that the required  investment returns  
were on the verge  of being high. But it also noted they should be achievable.
The report went on to further consider how the investment returns that were  required might be 
achieved. It recommended that the DFM be appointed with a target  return  of 6%. Mr Y was provided, 
although I havent seen  a copy, with a separate proposal from the DFM setting out how that return 
could be achieved given the risk profile  that TenetConnect  had assessed.  So on that basis I dont 
think it was unreasonable for TenetConnect to advise Mr Y that it would be in his best interests to 
transfer his pension savings.  It was likely  that he would  be able to achieve the same,  or better, 
income from those savings, and there were significant advantages in terms of tax planning, income 
flexibility, and benefits  for Mr Ys wife and his daughters following his death.  And I think  it is important 
to note here that these goals  were specifically  articulated by Mr Y, and only something that could be 
achieved by transferring his pension savings. 
Were the investment choices suitable?
Before the transfer took place I can see that Mr Y raised some  concerns with TenetConnect about the 
investment mix that was being proposed  by the DFM.  I can see that he agreed to discuss the matter 
with TenetConnect  at a forthcoming meeting. TenetConnect says that meeting  took place, and 
following the discussion, Mr Y agreed to the proposed investments. He completed the application 
paperwork shortly afterwards. Mr Y says that he, and the former colleague  who was providing him 
with some informal assistance, do not recall any such discussions.
Ref: DRN43251147It is clear that Mr Y had been unhappy with the investment proposals. And it is equally clear  that 
shortly afterwards he completed the necessary paperwork to transfer his pension  savings to the SIPP.  
And those  pension savings were invested in line with the original  DFM proposals. So on balance 
I think  I must conclude that something happened in the intervening period  to reassure  Mr Y about  the 
DFMs investment proposal. And given  the timings I think that intervention was most  probably at the 
meeting TenetConnect  held with Mr Y on 28 November   the same day that he completed the transfer 
paperwork.
Mr Ys pension investments have failed to make the returns that were  targeted, or needed, in order to 
match the benefits he would have received from the occupational scheme. Whilst that doesnt  mean  
the advice that Mr Y was given was necessarily incorrect I think  it would be reasonable for me to 
consider whether TenetConnect  was responsible for that underperformance.
I think  that ultimately the responsibility  for the performance  of the investments sits with the DFM.  Mr Y 
entered into a separate agreement, that I havent seen a copy of, for the services  of the DFM.  As part 
of that agreement he is likely to have agreed the investment objectives, and the manner in which the 
DFM intended to meet  them. So any failures in the implementation of those  would be the 
responsibility of the DFM  rather than TenetConnect.  And so, as TenetConnect  has indicated to Mr Y, 
it might be necessary for him to raise a separate  complaint  in that regard.
But TenetConnect was also being paid by Mr Y to provide some on-going servicing on his pension 
investments. The document that Mr Y was given suggested that fee would provide for regular reviews 
as well as any servicing or administration that might be needed  (such as when  Mr Y wanted to take 
some benefits  or switch  funds).  Mr Y agreed to pay TenetConnect an annual  charge equal to 0.25% 
of his pension investments for that service.
I havent seen enough to make me think the work  TenetConnect did in regard  to this aspect  of its 
service was sufficient.  I havent  seen details  of the regular  reviews it should have held with Mr Y, or 
any advice or recommendations it might have given about the performance of the DFM and whether  
Mr Y needed  to take any corrective actions in order to meet his future retirement  objectives. And 
I have noted the delays that appear to have happened  in the amendment  to the changes  Mr Y 
requested to the beneficiaries of his pension benefits  following his death. Whilst I agree  with 
TenetConnect that fortunately  these  didnt  result in any loss to Mr Y, I do think  they are reflective  of 
the poor service he has received.
So I dont think that it has been reasonable  for TenetConnect to take the annual  advisor charge. As 
I said earlier,  TenetConnect has agreed to refund those charges  to Mr Y as a gesture of goodwill. But 
I intend  to require  those  charges to be refunded as a reflection of the poor levels of service that have 
been given to Mr Y over the years.
In summary, I dont currently think that the advice  TenetConnect gave to Mr Y was inappropriate. 
Although the investment returns that were needed were stretching, I dont think  that, at the time, they 
should have been considered unlikely  or unachievable. I think that ultimately it is likely  that 
TenetConnect gained Mr Ys agreement to the investment approach that was suggested by the DFM.  
And it was the DFMs  responsibility to attempt to ensure that the targeted investment  returns were 
achieved. But I dont think that TenetConnect did enough in terms of the on-going  servicing 
arrangement it had with Mr Y, and so needs to pay him some compensation.
Ref: DRN4325114