K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a single premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Nationwide sold Mr and Mrs B the policy when they took out a loan in 2001.  Although  the 
loan was taken  in Mr and Mrs Bs joint names the policy  covered Mrs B only.  The policy 
covered Mrs B if she lost her job for up to 12 months or was unable  to work due to accident 
or sickness until the end of the loan term.
Our adjudicator didnt  think their complaint should be upheld  because he thought  the 
paperwork presented  the PPI as optional and thought the PPI wouldve been of benefit to 
Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B disagree. They say they have no recollection of the sale and didnt know they 
had it. 
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
The loan and policy was sold over the phone. Unfortunately Nationwide  dont have a call 
recording of the sale but I think thats  understandable  given  the amount of time that has 
passed. So I cant say exactly what was said at the time the PPI was sold.
So to decide how the PPI was presented,  Ive considered what  Mr and Mrs B have  said 
along with what  Nationwide  have said about  its sales process  and any documents  weve 
been given from the time of sale. 
Mr and Mrs B say they didnt know they had PPI. Nationwide say that its sales  process 
wouldve been followed  and that Mr and Mrs B wouldve  been  given enough  information  to 
decide if they wanted to take the PPI. Nationwide say that the PPI wouldve only been 
included on the credit agreement if Mr and Mrs B had consented  to it.
Ive seen a copy  of Nationwides internal notes and can see that it records that Mrs B opted 
for insurance. Ive also seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs signed credit agreement  which  I can 
see clearly sets out the cost of the loan and the Optional Credit Insurance with and without 
interest, separately. 
I dont think Nationwide  wouldve recorded insurance as being sold and included  PPI on the 
credit agreement if Mr and Mrs B hadnt  agreed  to it. 
Ref: DRN44508332And I think if Mr and Mrs B hadnt agreed to take out PPI or thought they had no choice in 
taking the PPI they wouldve questioned why it was included and described as optional 
within the agreement. So I think its likely Mr and Mrs B received  the loan agreement  with 
PPI on it because they chose to take the loan with PPI.
Nationwide didnt advise  Mr and Mrs B to take the policy. What this means  is that it didnt 
recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs B, it just gave them information about PPI. This information 
needed to be given in a way that was clear,  fair and not misleading so that Mr and Mrs B 
could make an informed  choice about buying PPI.
From what  I can see on the credit agreement I think the cost of the PPI was clear, but I dont 
know if the other information given was good enough. But in saying that I dont think this 
wouldve made a difference  because I still think Mr and Mrs B wouldve taken out the policy 
because at the time they took out the loan:
From  the information I have,  theres  nothing to suggest Mrs B wasnt  eligible for the 
PPI. And it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions 
in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made  it difficult to make  a 
successful claim.
Although Mrs B says she had some sick pay and could rely on Mr B if she was 
unable to work, I think the PPI still provided them with a useful benefit. There  is no 
guarantee Mr B would be able to help and a successful claim wouldve  paid out in 
addition to any cover they had in place and for potentially longer as well as filling any 
gaps in Mrs Bs work benefits such as if she was made  redundant. 
Theres nothing to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable and they wouldnt have lost out 
if they paid their loan back early  as they wouldve received a pro-rata refund of the 
policy cost.  
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to 
Mr and Mrs B. I think they wouldve still taken the PPI as it suited their needs and was of 
value to them. 
And because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs B are any worse  off as a result of any wrong 
doing by Nationwide.  
Ref: DRN44508333my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against 
Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4450833