K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Santander  UK Plc (Santander trading at the time of sale as 
Alliance and Leicester)  mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out in December 2003 
alongside a home  improvement loan. Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage already with Santander 
arranging this in 2001. 
Mr and Mrs M applied for the policy in a meeting. The policy covered them  both against 
accidents, sickness and unemployment.
Mr and Mrs M say the policy was added to the original mortgage  and loan without any 
discussion. They believe  it mis-sold the insurance to them.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Here are my reasons:
Mr and Mrs M say Santander didnt make it clear  PPI was optional  and there  was no 
discussion about it. I have though,  been able to see a loan application form that has in it 
a section for PPI along with a question  that asks if PPI is required or not. And next to this 
question a box is ticked, to indicate  Mr and Mrs M wanted the MPPI policy.  They have 
also signed this application form agreeing to the choices  made  in it. 
I cant be sure what was discussed  between Mr and Mrs M and Santander during the 
meeting. Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs Ms recollections are not 
detailed as the sale took place  a number of years ago. And because  of this and 
considering what  I have seen in the sales documentation, I dont think  the evidence is 
strong enough for me safely  to say Santander didnt explain that PPI was an optional 
feature.
Moving on, I need to consider next whether Santander provided advice to Mr and Mrs M 
or not during the sale. If it did, it would have had an additional responsibility to ensure the 
policy was suitable for them.  On looking at the information provided and in particular the 
application form, I think advice was given.
And based on the information Ive seen,  I think the policy  was suitable for Mr and Mrs M.
Ref: DRN46514562I say this after considering Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale. Because,  
although Mr and Mrs M say they had sick pay they could have used (6 months half and 
6 months full for Mrs M and 13 weeks half pay for Mr M), the MPPI policy would have 
paid out if either of them  were made  unemployed or if they were  sick in addition to their 
means. Having the policy in place would mean  Mr and Mrs M could use any provisions  
they may have  had to cover other expenses. I dont think  their means are sufficient for 
me reasonably  to say that they wouldnt have had a need for the policy.  
Mr and Mrs M were  not affected  by any of the conditions  limiting the policys  main  
benefits. It is unlikely  Mr and Mrs M needed better  advice  or information about the 
policys exclusions and limitations and if they had received clear information on these 
terms I dont think it would have  put them off.
 
Finally, I cant  be sure that the costs of the policy were disclosed  in a clear  way, but even 
if Santander did, I dont think Mr and Mrs M would  have done  anything differently for the 
same reasons as I have  already  given. Ive also seen nothing  to suggest it was 
unaffordable.
In conclusion, based on what I have seen, I do not think the policy was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs M paid on the policy  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly. 
Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Santander didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 November 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4651456