K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that Indigo Michael  Limited,  trading  as Safety Net Credit, gave him a 
Safety Net facility  without carrying out proper  creditworthiness and affordability checks.
background and findings
I issued my provisional decision on 25 September 2019 and gave Mr S and Indigo Michael 
until 9 October 2019 to look at it and then send  me anything else they wished  to me see. 
Mr S replied  to say that he was happy  with it. 
Indigo Michael was sent the provisional decision at the same  time and then another  copy  by 
email again on 1 October 2019. We have not heard from Indigo Michael. So I have 
reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have  taken into account the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
As Mr S has accepted  my provisional decision and I have no new evidence or points from 
Indigo Michael, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. 
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint from March  2016 to the end of the period 
when he was a customer with Indigo  Michael. My provisional decision is attached and forms 
part of this final decision. 
putting things right - what  Indigo Michael  should do 
Indigo Michael needs to put things  right for Mr S and so I ask it to do the following:
refund  all interest paid on the facility from March 2016; and 
pay 8% simple interest* a year on all refunds from the date of payment  to the date of 
settlement; and
remove the relevant  negative  payment  information about the facility from his credit 
file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Indigo Michael to take off tax from this interest and it 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN46511312my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  dated 25 September 2019, 
I uphold Mr S complaint.  
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr S in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  on or before 17 November 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
the provisional decision appears on the next page
Ref: DRN46511313my provisional decision dated 25 September 2019
background
The credit  Indigo Michael offered was a running  account credit facility  where a consumer could either  
request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would be deposited into their nominated bank account 
once their account balance fell below the safety net amount of the customers choosing.  There was 
the option  for the customer to make manual withdrawals.  The obligation  on the customer  was that 
they have to repay  at least a minimum amount each month. 
A feature of the facility  was that if the consumers  bank account balance dropped below a pre-set 
amount then Indigo Michael would effectively transfer money into that account  to keep it above a 
certain balance. This was a feature often  used to avoid straying into an unauthorised  overdraft. Or if 
the pre-set  limit was set to avoid going beyond the limit for an authorised  overdraft then the net effect 
was the same  avoidance  of unauthorised overdraft fees and charges. 
Mr S applied for the credit  facility in March  2016. Indigo Michael assessed the previous 90 days  of his 
bank transactions and assessed that he consistently  had a high income and relatively few outgoings. 
Indigo Michael has summarised its view as: Mr S did not highlight any financial  difficulty  to [Indigo 
Michael] at any point,  and when credit  limits  were offered these are subject to acceptance from the 
customer. He used the product  successfully  over a long period, and ceased use without an 
outstanding balance.
Using the information from Indigo Michael  I have created  a brief table to show the dates and the credit  
limits approved. 
date of limit or 
increasecredit limit or increased 
sum
10 March  2016 £300
14 April 2016 £330
14 May 2016 £450
13 June 2016 £600
12 July 2016 £720
12 August 2016 £740
14 December 2016 £820
12 January 2017 £890
13 March  2017 £930
One of our adjudicators  looked  at the complaint  and thought that Indigo Michael  did sufficient  checks 
and those checks  would have shown that you could afford the facility.  You have explained to me that 
that there were  factors  that meant you couldnt afford the facility, but SNC  wouldnt have been aware 
of these. 
Mr S describes the credit  as a series of loans but I think our adjudicators  explanation has clarified 
that it was not. Mr S says that several  things show flaws in Indigo Michaels systems. He has 
explained on several  occasions  that while he was a customer of Indigo Michael he used to receive 
emails from it which said it had noticed changes in his finances such that the credit may be reduced. 
Mr S says that this was wrong for it to have  seen the changes  and carry  on offering credit. 
Mr S has volunteered  the information  that he was addicted to gambling during this period and that he 
did not use websites  but would remove cash from his account to gamble.
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators  opinions  and the complaint was passed to me for a decision.  
Ref: DRN46511314my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I have taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time the credit account was offered.
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) regulated the provision of credit of this kind at the time Miss 
M applied. And the relevant regulatory rules in place  at the time were  set out in the Consumer Credit  
Sourcebook (CONC)  section  of the FCA Handbook  of rules and guidance.
CONC 5.2 also includes  some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needed  to bear in mind when  
considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. Section 5.2.4(2)  says a firm should consider what  is 
appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative  to the customers 
financial situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains  further guidance on what a lender should  bear in mind  when thinking  about  
affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1)  says In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers 
ability to repay  the credit.
CONC 5.3.1(2)  then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1) should include  the firm taking reasonable  steps to assess the customers ability  to meet 
repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner  without the customer  
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
In practice all of this meant that a lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an 
informed decision on the credit limit being offered. Although the guidance and rules  themselves did 
not set out compulsory  checks, they did list a number  of things a lender  could take into account before  
agreeing to lend. The key element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take 
into account  a number of different things, including how much was being  advanced. 
Mr S was given an open-ended credit facility. The checks Indigo Michael carried out had to provide 
enough for it to be able to understand whether Mr S would be able to both service and then repay his 
facility within a reasonable  period of time.
Indigo Michaels submissions to us refer to Mr S gambling, his income,  net gambling losses and 
gains. It describes Mr S credit and gambling use as proportionate and that these  were factored into 
the assessments. It gave some figures of what it described as net losses and net profits in relation  to 
his gambling.  And it also says that the gambling transactions would certainly not constitute a 
reason to cease lending to the customer.
I do not agree.  
Using the wording of the affordability assessment in the rules in CONC,  the checks Indigo Michael 
was expected to carry out were to be proportionate to a number of factors, including Mr S current 
financial situation and indications of present or past financial difficulties, as well as future financial 
commitments. 
My view is that it would not be unreasonable to consider that significant sums being  spent on 
gambling would be a current financial situation to be taken into account. And its likely that this could 
be a fairly strong indication of present  financial  difficulty. 
Ref: DRN46511315In addition, it is likely to mean that Mr S may have had an issue with repaying the credit  in a 
sustainable fashion within the meaning of CONC. Gambling is highly likely  to lead to debt. And with a 
debt situation arising out of, or contributed to by, gambling,  then a properly  carried out affordability 
assessment was likely to lead a responsible lender to conclude that this credit facility  was not 
sustainable for an applicant in that situation.
As well as this, Indigo  Michael has indicated  that it was aware of his use of other short term loan 
(STL) providers and that he had a county court judgement over two years before  the initial  
assessment. And I can see from the files sent to us that Indigo Michael had lists of his STL activity. Mr 
S had STL debts almost  every month. These files also reveal that Mr S was repaying to a debt 
collection agency £50 a month.  
Despite this, Indigo Michael approved the credit facility  and then increased the limit from £300 to £930 
in about a year. And looking at the way that Mr S used the facility, frequently  drawing  down and 
making more than one repayment each  month, led to him at times making repayments to Indigo 
Michael of  between  £1,700 or over £2,000  in a month.  This included the principal borrowed as well 
as any interest due. 
And Indigo Michael was aware  of the bank transfers into his account as it said in its final response 
letter to him: We could  also see regular  substantial bank  transfers from various other sources  that 
drastically increased the monthly income into your account.
But on the information I have  it does not look to me as though Indigo Michael checked what  those 
were or related  to. 
minimum payment  provision 
I am aware  that a minimum payment was the contractual amount and so to address this point I refer 
to this provision in CONC which was in place at the time: 
CONC 5.3.1  (8) For a regulated credit  agreement for running-account credit the firm, in making  its 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R  (1):
(a) should  consider the customers  ability  to repay the maximum amount of credit available 
(equivalent to the credit  limit)  under the agreement within  a reasonable  period;
(b) [omitted here]; 
(c) should not use the assumption of the amount  necessary  to make only the minimum repayment 
each month.
I think  that Indigo Michaels assessment of Mr S financial situation was miscalculated and as such  
then the test to be able to repay  this type of credit within a reasonable period  (CONC 5.2.1 as it was 
at the time) was not made out as Mr S was using  a great deal of money to gamble. And the 
comprehensive and proportionate  checks Indigo Michael  carried out revealed  this and still the credit 
was approved. And Mr S was even less in a position to repay  this as the credit limits increased.
My provisional  decision  is that I am planning to uphold Mr S complaint  from March  2016 to the end of 
the period when he was a customer with Indigo Michael.  
end of extract
Ref: DRN4651131