K822xcomplaint
Mrs J1 and Mrs J2 have  complained as executors  to the estate of the late Mrs A that Lloyds 
Bank PLC lost her safe custody deposit  box. 
background 
When Mrs A died in 2017 her niece, Mrs J1, asked Lloyds for the contents of the two safe 
custody deposit  boxes Mrs A had been paying  for. Lloyds found  one envelope but said it 
couldnt find any record of a second deposit. As both Mrs J1 and Lloyds have referred  to the 
deposits as boxes Ill do the same. For ease  Ill refer to the envelope  as the first box and the 
missing item as the second box. 
Mrs J1 complained to Lloyds. She said Mrs A had been paying standing  orders  of £10 a year 
and £15 a year for two boxes, so Lloyds  must  have  lost one if it could only find one. She also 
complained that the first box had been  opened  when  it was returned to her, and the member  
of staff who gave it to her knew  the contents.  
Lloyds apologised  for the poor service and said it was its practice  to make a note of what 
was in safety deposits so it didnt think it had breached security. It said the second standing 
order was the only evidence of the second box. And it could only see that the standing order 
had been paid since 2001. It said it would  pay Mrs As estate  £500  compensation for distress 
and inconvenience  and refund the £10 a year standing order  charges  since  2001, plus 
interest on that amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from that date. 
Mrs J1 and Mrs J2 didnt  think  this was enough and brought their complaint  to us. Lloyds 
said the second box was likely to have been a duplicate of the first box, in that it was the 
same deposit being paid for twice. Mrs J1 said her aunt was astute and wouldnt have paid 
for two if she didnt need to.
Mrs J1 said having cleared the house following her aunts death, the family hadnt  found her 
uncles will or personal  belongings they knew hed owned, such  as a watch and gold rings. 
She said Mrs A had opened  her savings account a few weeks after her husbands death in 
1985. And she thought it was most likely  shed  then put his watch  and rings in the safety  
deposit box. She thought  the opening of the account at this time showed it was most likely 
this was when  the second box was deposited.  
Lloyds said it had most likely been accidentally charging Mrs A for the safety deposit box 
twice following an internal audit in the branch in 2003. It thought  the audit had incorrectly  
identified that Mrs A hadnt been  paying for the second box so set up a new standing order 
out of a different account. It said it was likely  Mrs A didnt  cancel the first standing order  
which meant shed  incorrectly paid for two boxes since 2003.  It said as it had already  offered 
to refund the fees from 2001 it thought  its offer was fair and reasonable.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 24 May 2019 where I explained  what 
Lloyds needed  to do to put things right. In that decision I said:
Ive seen a copy  of the safe custody agreement for the first box. This shows it was deposited 
in June 2003. Theres no copy of an agreement for the second  box so Ive made  my decision 
based on what I think is most likely to have happened. From what Ive seen  and heard I think  
its more likely that theres a second  box that Lloyds  is unable to find, than that Mrs A simply 
forgot to cancel the standing order. Ill now explain why. 
Ref: DRN46690192From what  Mrs J1s told me I understand Mrs A was astute and in control of her finances. 
Mrs J1 said she helped Mrs A with her finances in the last few years of her life and she was 
aware there  were two standing orders. Mrs J1 said shed topped up the account  the standing  
order for [the second] box was debited from at Mrs As request while she was in hospital. Ive 
also seen the letter from Lloyds letting Mrs A know the account didnt have enough  money in 
to make the debit. This letter clearly shows that the standing order was for a safe custody 
charge. So I think  its most  likely Mrs A knew she was paying this standing  order.  
Mrs J1 said there was very little money in this account, as shown by her having to top it up. 
She said Mrs A wouldnt have kept the account  open and paid £10 a year for a second box if 
there wasnt anything  in there. Im more persuaded by what  shes said than by Lloyds 
account of whats  likely  to have happened. 
Lloyds thinks it accidentally charged Mrs A for two boxes, instead  of one, following an 
internal audit of a branch  in 2003.  Lloyds said it checked all internal records and didnt find 
any evidence of a second box being  deposited.  However from the information Lloyds has 
provided its clear there were a number of boxes being held by the branch that didnt have 
agreements. So I dont think Lloyds can fairly conclude  that just because there wasnt  a 
second agreement  or any record of it, it doesnt  mean there wasnt a second box. 
Ive also seen information from the storage company that says it only keyed  its records  from 
the outside of envelopes  and didnt look inside. This suggests that if Mrs As identifying  
details werent documented on the outside of the package, it wouldnt be able to find it. 
Mrs J1 thinks Mrs A opened the account and placed the second box in 1985 after her 
husbands death. Lloyds has refunded the fees for this box to 2001 as it doesnt have 
records showing it was paid for going  any further  back. But I find it unlikely that Mrs A only 
took the box in the same  year as Lloyds records started. I can also see from Lloyds notes it 
said the standing  order was set up before 2001 but its records  didnt go back  any further. Its 
difficult to know exactly when Mrs A deposited  the second box but on balance  Im persuaded 
its most  likely it was in 1985  after her husbands death.
Lloyds has already offered £500 for distress and inconvenience.  And without more 
information to show what was in the box, or the value of the belongings, I dont think  Im 
fairly able to award any more than this for the lost items. From what Mrs J1s told me about 
what she thinks was in the box, its also likely the compensation Lloyds has offered as well 
as the refund of fees and interest is enough  to compensate for any financial loss of those 
items. Although I do appreciate its distressing for the family to not know for definite what 
was in the box and to have possibly lost items belonging  to their uncle. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable however for Mrs A to have paid for a box that hasnt 
been kept securely. So I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this particular complaint is 
for Lloyds  to refund the fees for the second box - £10 per year  back to 1985.  It should  add 
interest to this amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from 1985  to the date it makes 
payment. 
Lloyds should  also return the box to Mrs As estate if its found  in the future. 
Mrs J1 is also concerned that the member of staff at Lloyds was able to tell her what was in 
the box before handing it to her. I can understand why Mrs J1s concerned  that items may 
become lost from the box if theyre  not re-sealed after opening during storage. However  its 
reasonable to conclude  that it might have  become  unsealed due to the time thats  passed.  I 
Ref: DRN46690193also find it reasonable that Lloyds would keep a record of what was in the box. I appreciate 
Mrs J1 would have  preferred to open  the box herself  rather  than being told what  was in there 
but I dont think  the contents of the box were of a particularly sensitive nature and I dont  
think this in itself requires compensating for, given Lloyds has already offered £500 
compensation overall. 
Both Mrs J1 and Lloyds accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mrs J1 and Lloyds accepted my provisional  decision  I see no reason to depart from 
my findings.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank  PLC to pay the 
estate of Mrs A:
£500 compensation for the inconvenience;
a refund of fees at £10 a year from 1985  to 2016, adding  interest  to that amount at a 
rate of 8% simple per year from 1985  to the date it makes  payment.
Lloyds Bank  PLC should also return the safety  deposit box to Mrs As estate if its found.  
Lloyds Bank  should  do this within  28 days of us telling it Mrs J1 and Mrs J2 have accepted  
my final decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J1 and Mrs J2 
to accept or reject my decision, on behalf  of Mrs As estate, before 20 July 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN4669019