K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  (AIC) unfairly cancelled his 
private car insurance  policy.
 
background
Mr N renewed  his car insurance  policy with AIC on 25 June 2018. A credit agreement  was 
put in place to pay over 11 instalments  by direct debit. The first instalment was collected on 
25 June 2018.  
AIC say that they were  told by Mr Ns bank that he had cancelled his direct debit. They  say 
they attempted to contact him by letter and email to request that he reinstate it  and if he 
didnt they would cancel the policy. The emails directed Mr N to the online portal that he had 
registered for and hed previously advised  AIC that email was his preferred contact method. 
They didnt hear back from Mr N so they cancelled the policy  on 16 July 2018.
Mr N says he didnt cancel the direct debit and didnt receive any letters or emails from AIC. 
And adds  that the first he knew that his policy had been cancelled was when he contacted 
AIC to make  a claim following the theft of his car on 20 July 2018.
AIC repudiated the claim  for the theft of the car as the policy  had been  cancelled and the car 
was no longer insured by them. Mr N was unhappy with this and brought  his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigators view was that he couldnt  reasonably ask AIC to reinstate the policy  or 
take any action  in relation to the claim for the theft of the car. 
Mr N didnt agree with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman  decide his 
complaint.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AIC have  told us they were notified  by Mr Ns bank  on 2 July 2018  that hed cancelled  his 
direct debit. Mr N tells us he didnt cancel the direct debit. Mr Ns bank has confirmed to this 
service that the direct  debit was cancelled by the customer  on 29 June 2018.  I find it likely 
that the direct debit  was cancelled by Mr N but even if it wasnt  AIC acted reasonably  on the 
information theyd  received and attempted to contact Mr N. 
AIC have  shown that they posted  a letter and sent an email to Mr N on 2 July 2018.  Within 
the letter they said:- 
We have been advised by your bank that you have cancelled the Direct Debit instruction for 
the above insurance policy resulting in an outstanding balance £414.74. Please call us within  
the next 14 days on 0333 321 9801  to confirm  your bank details, as this will allow  us to set 
up a new Direct Debit for you. 
A condition  of your credit agreement is that all monthly instalments are paid by Direct Debit  
and failure to do so may result in us having  to cancel  your insurance policy.
Ref: DRN46036812AIC say that as they hadnt  heard from Mr N they sent a final  reminder  to him on 9 July 
2018. In this letter they said:-
We wrote to you recently informing you that we still require you to provide us with your 
correct Bank  Account  details to reinstate your Direct Debit agreement.
As mentioned in our previous letter, to avoid cancellation of your insurance policy you will 
need to pay the outstanding amount of £414.74, within 7 days  of the date of this letter.
If your policy  is cancelled  you will immediately need  to return your current  Certificate of 
Insurance back to us. A cancellation fee of £45 will also be applied  to your policy  and you 
need to be aware  that it is an offence  under the Road Traffic Act to use or keep a motor 
vehicle without adequate insurance cover in force, unless the vehicle has been  declared 
SORN with the DVLA, in accordance with the Continuous Insurance Enforcement (CIE) 
regulations.
AIC have  provided  evidence that the letters were passed to their postal service provider. And 
the online portal was updated which would have triggered emails  alerting Mr N to the fact 
that there  were documents in the portal. Mr N says he didnt  see the emails at the time and 
the letters never reached him. Im satisfied that AIC did what  it needed to do to tell Mr N that 
his policy  would be cancelled  if the direct debit  wasnt reinstated.  And they cancelled  the 
policy on 16 July 2018 as they said they would. 
The credit agreement explains  that it is a requirement that an active direct  debit is in place. 
AIC informed Mr N as soon as they were aware that the direct debit had been cancelled. 
And gave  Mr N the option of reinstating the direct debit or paying the outstanding amount. 
They also set out the consequences of not taking  action. As they didnt hear from Mr N it 
was reasonable  for them to cancel the policy.
Mr N says that as hed paid the first instalment at renewal on 25 June 2018 he should  be 
covered for a proportionate period for the money  hed paid. And therefore his policy  should 
still have been  in force on 20 July 2018. Its not in dispute that Mr N paid the first instalment. 
The policy was cancelled due to there  not being an active direct debit in place. And the first 
instalment wasnt to cover a specific, short period  of insurance. Instead  this was one 
payment towards  the total cost of his annual policy.
AIC have  shown that after taking account  of fees and the premium required the amount Mr N 
paid for the first instalment is insufficient to cover  the period from renewal until the policy  was 
cancelled on 16 July 2018. So Im satisfied in the circumstances  of this case that AIC 
cancelled the policy on the correct date and it would be unreasonable  to expect them to 
extend the cover beyond  this.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4603681