K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about how Amtrust Europe  Limited  dealt with a claim he made  for accidental  
damage to his furniture.  
Mr R is represented by his partner in bringing  this complaint. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by him directly.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 27 April 2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld.  I also 
outlined my reasons  as to why I thought Amtrust should pay £100 compensation to Mr R to 
resolve this complaint. 
I invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. 
Amtrust did not respond to my provisional decision.  However, Mr R responded with a 
number of points.  
Mr R stated that the timeline  Amtrust  had provided our service  was incorrect.  He provided 
evidence to confirm  that he submitted a claim on 4 January 2019. And he said, in the 
absence of a response  to his claim,  hed submitted  a second claim form on 
17 January 2019.  He said,  despite chasing  Amtrust on a number of occasions, it didnt 
confirm it was able to proceed with his claim until February 2019. So, overall, Mr R felt £100 
compensation didnt adequately reflect the delays  and service he had experienced. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs furniture was damaged in early  January  2019. He disputes what  Amtrust told our 
service about it not being made  aware of his claim until February 2019. And hes provided  
claim forms he completed, which are dated 3 January  and 16 January 2019. 
I dont doubt Mr R sent both claim forms to Amtrust.  But I also accept what  it says about not 
being aware of Mr Rs claim until February 2019.  Given that Amtrust accepted  this claim Im 
not persuaded it had any motive for not processing  Mr Rs claim promptly  on becoming 
aware of it. 
It appears Mr R thinks that Amtrust could have acted sooner in instructing the first service 
company to repair Mr Rs furniture. But I havent  seen enough evidence to satisfy me that, 
even if Amtrust had done that earlier, this claim would have been resolved sooner. I say this 
because of the unavailability of the first service company  to undertake  the repairs  here.  And I 
havent seen enough to show that any repairs would have been  completed before that 
companys shutdown period.
In my provisional decision I acknowledged that the second  service  company caused delays 
in processing Mr Rs claim by repeatedly cancelling visits to his property. As I outlined  in my 
Ref: DRN49049092provisional decision its unclear why the second service company continued to cancel 
appointments it had already made to attend  Mr Rs property.
In my provisional decision I explained  why an award of compensation was warranted given 
the delays caused by these cancellations. I also gave reasons why the £40 Amtrust  initially 
offered to compensate Mr R for the trouble and upset he experienced was unfair. 
Mr R wanted Amtrust to pay £200 compensation. However, in my provisional decision I 
explained why I felt an award of £100  was a reasonable amount, which was consistent with 
our services  approach  in similar scenarios and that fairly recognised the impact this all had. 
I remain persuaded that the resolution I suggested in my provisional decision is fair and 
reasonable in the overall circumstances  of this complaint. It recognises  that Amtrust  
provided poor service  to Mr R and that he experienced  delays in the way his claim was 
progressed. I appreciate Mr R may want me to tell Amtrust to pay a higher amount of 
compensation here. But I havent seen enough evidence  to persuade me that a higher award 
is warranted here.
Ive thought about everything Mr R said in response to my provisional  decision but his 
comments havent persuaded me to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision. I still think his complaint  should  be upheld in line with my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Amtrust Europe Limited to pay Mr R 
£100 compensation to resolve  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
copy provisional decision  27 April  2020
complaint
Mr R complains about how Amtrust  Europe Limited dealt with a claim he made for accidental damage 
to his furniture. 
Mr R is represented by his partner in bringing this complaint. But for clarity   Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by him directly.
Ref: DRN49049093background
In September 2018 Mr R purchased a sofa and chair from a company  that Ill refer to here as D. He 
also purchased a five year optional  stain cover policy  of insurance. This cover was provided  by 
Amtrust and it covered accidental damage to the upholstery Mr R had bought.
On 1 January 2019 Mr Rs cat urinated on his sofa cushion cover.  He tried to clean it with a cleaning 
kit hed bought  from D but the smell remained. Two days later Mr Rs daughter ripped the fabric on a 
footstool while  playing.  
Amtrust said Mr R contacted it to report the damage and make a claim under  his policy on 13 
February 2019. It forwarded  a claim  form for him to complete the same day, which  included a request 
for information about the extent of the damage and how it had been caused.  Amtrust said Mr Rs 
returned his completed claim form immediately.  And it appointed an independent  service  company  to 
attend his home to inspect the furniture that had sustained damage. Amtrust said this company 
telephoned Mr R on 15 February,  but it wasnt able to reach him.
On 21 February Mr R contacted the service company by telephone but he said there was a voicemail  
which explained the company was closed until March. He informed Amtrust about  this and it sent a 
message to the company  asking it to contact Mr R as soon  as possible.  The following day Mr R 
contacted the company again but heard  the same voicemail. He notified Amtrust who, at this point, 
instructed an alternative  service company to attend  Mr Rs property.  
On 23 February 2019 this company contacted Mr R and arranged an appointment to visit his home. 
This visit was scheduled for 7 March. But on 4 March  it contacted Mr R to cancel that appointment 
and rearrange it to 11 March. 
On 5 March Mr R contacted Amtrust to lodge a complaint.  He was unhappy that visits  to his home  had 
been cancelled and he felt there were unacceptable  delays in how his claim was progressing. 
On 7 March the service company contacted Mr R again  to rearrange its visit to his home. It informed 
him it would attend his property  on 27 March.  But on 25 March it contacted him again  to ask if it could 
put the appointment back  to 8 April. The same day it contacted Amtrust to advise that Mr R had 
declined to rearrange his appointment. And it said it had attempted to reach him by telephone on 11 
April and 24 April to schedule a visit. But, as these calls were unsuccessful, it left a voicemail asking 
him to return its call. 
On 2 May Mr R contacted Amtrust to advise  that he no longer wanted the service  company to attend  
his home address. Instead, he wanted the cost of the policy refunding. But Amtrust said it wasnt able 
to do that because, by this point,  an engineer had attended Mr Rs home to repair the tears to the 
footstool. So cost had been incurred under the policy.
Amtrust investigated Mr Rs concerns about the cancelled  visits  to his home  and agreed hed 
experienced poor service, which  had caused delays  to his claim. It offered to pay him £40 to 
recognise this. But Mr R didnt  think that amount fairly  reflected the distress and inconvenience hed 
been caused.  So, he brought his complaint  to our service.
Our investigator assessed what had happened and felt the £40 offered didnt go far enough. They 
recommended that Amtrust  pay £200 to resolve  Mr Rs complaint. He agreed with our investigators 
view but Amtrust didnt. It thought £100  was a more reasonable amount and asked for the matter to 
be referred to an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im departing  from what our investigator has said.  Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN49049094Amtrust told our service  that, while  the damage  to Mr Rs furniture took place  on 1 and 3 January 
2019, it wasnt  made aware of the damage until 13 February.  This was around 6 weeks after the 
damage had been caused. It isnt clear why Amtrust wasnt made aware  of the damage sooner. But I 
havent seen any evidence that makes me doubt what Amtrust  says here about  the date it became 
aware that Mr R wished to make a claim for accidental damage to his furniture. Based  on that, Im 
satisfied that Amtrust acted as soon as it could.
From the evidence  Ive seen, Im satisfied Amtrust provided Mr R with a claim form to complete 
immediately  I can see this was sent to him the same day it was made  aware he wanted to make a 
claim. Mr R competed  and returned this claim form the day he received it. So, Im satisfied there were  
no delays in the claims  process during in the early stages of Mr R making a claim.
Im persuaded  Amtrust promptly appointed the first independent service  company  to attend  Mr Rs 
home to inspect the furniture  that had sustained damage. I say this because I can see that company 
telephoned Mr R on 15 February  two days after he had contacted Amtrust to explain he wanted  to 
make a claim.
Unfortunately when the first service company contacted Mr R to arrange a visit to his home  it wasnt 
able to reach  him. And when he returned its call, around a week later,  he heard a voicemail explaining 
the company was closed until March. It isnt clear why Mr R didnt return this companys call sooner. 
And it isnt possible to say whether this impacted  on the delays that Mr R ultimately experienced. I say 
this because if Mr R had returned the first companys call sooner it may have resulted  in it attending 
Mr Rs property prior to it closing. 
I can see Mr R promptly notified Amtrust  that the company in question was closed  until March. In view 
of this closure being for some time I think Amtrust took appropriate steps to instruct an alternative 
service company to attend  Mr Rs property.  Its clear  to me that it wanted to progress his claim  as 
speedily as it could.
Im satisfied the new service  company contacted  Mr R promptly  to arrange an appointment to attend  
his property.  This was scheduled to take place  on 7 March. However,  that visit was cancelled  on 4 
March. And its clear there were at least three cancelled appointments   the reasons  for which are 
unclear. Whilst  I appreciate  that must have been frustrating to Mr R I can see at least two days notice 
was given  of each cancellation,  which I think is fair.  
Based on the evidence Ive seen I think delays  were caused in the claims  process  when the second 
service company were  appointed  to oversee  this claim.  Its clear  that these  delays were  caused by the 
repeated cancellation of visits to Mr Rs property. His furniture was damaged in early January  2019 
and its unclear why the second service company continued to cancel appointments it had made  to 
attend Mr Rs property  particularly given  that Amtrust instructed it to assess  the damaged furniture 
in late February. 
Im satisfied that an award of compensation is warranted given the delays Mr R experienced here 
insofar as the second service company is concerned. Amtrust  initially offered to compensate  Mr R 
£40 for the distress and inconvenience he was caused.  But Mr R told our service  that he considers 
that offer derisory given  what happened. I agree that it doesnt adequately reflect  the number of visits 
the service company cancelled to Mr Rs home, which would undoubtedly have been inconvenient 
and frustrating.
We arent here to punish  businesses  and, to put things right, Id have asked Amtrust to apologise for 
the poor service Mr R received, which  its already  done. I would have also ordered it to pay a 
reasonable amount of compensation for the trouble and upset he was caused. Our investigator 
recommended Amtrust pay Mr R £200  in compensation but it disagreed and increased its initial offer 
to £100, which it felt was fair. 
Ref: DRN49049095In thinking about the appropriate level of compensation here Ive taken a number of things into 
consideration. Ive already explained why Im satisfied Amtrust dealt with Mr Rs claim proactively and 
promptly until the point that the second service company was appointed.  However,  once the second 
company was instructed I think its visits to Mr Rs property  could have been better  coordinated  by 
Amtrust. And I think  if Amtrust had overseen this process more attentively  delays would have been 
reduced. From the chronology  Ive seen this accounted for a delay  of around five weeks.  
I can see that the final appointment the second company proposed was in early April. But Mr R 
declined to rearrange a further visit. I can see this company continued  to contact Mr R in throughout  
April to try to reschedule  a visit. But he didnt respond. On balance,  I think delays  in April were  caused 
by Mr R not returning the service companys  call as he no longer wanted to proceed with his claim.  
And that delay  isnt something I can fairly  hold Amtrust responsible for nor is it something I can 
consider when making an award  of compensation.
In the overall circumstances  of this complaint, I think  a modest  amount of compensation  is fair. And 
Im satisfied £100 is a reasonable  amount  that fairly  recognises the impact this all had. Its in line with 
what I would have suggested  had no offer been made, and its consistent with our approach in similar  
scenarios. I appreciate that Mr R will have spent time in raising his complaint with Amtrust  and in 
bringing his complaint to our service. But, Im satisfied £100  compensation fairly recognises that.
Finally, Im not persuaded it would be fair to ask Amtrust to refund the policy Mr R purchased as he 
initially asked it to. I say this because Ive seen evidence  showing that the tear to his footstool was 
repaired. So, hes had the benefit of that policy. Im also not going  to direct Amtrust to honour Mr Rs 
outstanding claim because its clear  he doesnt wish to have any further dealings with Amtrust or its 
agents.  
I know that Mr R will be disappointed with what Ive said. But, for the reasons  set out above,  my 
provisional decision  is that I am minded to uphold  this complaint and direct Amtrust to pay him £100 
to recognise the trouble  and upset he was caused.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Im minded to uphold this complaint. Amtrust Europe Limited  should 
pay Mr R £100 to resolve this complaint.  
Mr R and Amtrust Europe Limited have  until 24 May 2020  to send me anything  further theyd like me 
to consider before  I make  my final decision.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4904909