K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  with a mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 2004 Mr and Mrs H took out PPI when they borrowed extra money on their mortgage.  The 
sale happened during a branch meeting. The policy was set up in Mr Hs sole name and it 
provided a monthly  benefit to cover Mr and Mrs Hs entire monthly mortgage payment. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment for up to 12 months per 
claim and it cost around £40 a month.
In 2005, 2006 and again in 2008  Mr and Mrs H extended their borrowing and the PPI policy  
was increased each time. This added around  £25, £10 and £5 respectively to the PPI cost.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said Mr and Mrs H 
agreed to take out the cover each time and there  was nothing  to indicate it was mis-sold.
Because Mr and Mrs H disagree, the complaint comes to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complains on our website and Ive taken into account  whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Lloyds says it advised Mr and Mrs H to take out PPI. And based on what  Ive seen I think it 
likely did so. This means it had to ensure  the cover was right or suitable for them  and it had 
to give them enough  clear and timely information about the recommended  cover so they 
could decide whether  to go ahead or not. Ive kept this in mind  in deciding this complaint.
did Mr and Mrs H understand they had a choice about  PPI?
Lloyds needed  to make  it clear PPI was optional.
I can see Mr and Mrs H have said they didnt  know they had PPI  they dont recall any 
conversations about it. Ive therefore  considered this carefully.
Lloyds has provided  copies of some  of the paperwork  from each of the meetings Mr and Mrs 
H had when they extended  their mortgage borrowing. Each time Mr and Mrs H signed a 
separate PPI application or proposal form and a direct debit  mandate to allow the premiums 
to be taken from their nominated bank account.
Lloyds has also provided insurance fact-find documents from 2005 and 2008, which  show 
that Mr and Mrs H discussed their insurance  needs with a Lloyds adviser.  On both occasions 
its recorded that Mr and Mrs H thought  it was important to protect against accident,  sickness 
and unemployment  and wanted their whole mortgage to be covered. 
Ref: DRN48942052Im mindful too that for the 2006 and 2008  borrowings, Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage offer letters 
referred to PPI (described as optional) and set out the cost.
So overall and having weighed up the evidence presented, Im satisfied PPI was discussed 
with Mr and Mrs H on each occasion and that they chose and agreed  to take it out.
the advice  was PPI suitable?
The fact-find documents from 2005 and 2008 show that Lloyds took some steps during these 
interactions to ensure  PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs H. But the available  evidence doesnt 
tell me that it did all that it fairly and reasonably should have. And I dont have similar 
documents from 2004 when advice was first given or from later on in 2006. So I accept its 
possible there were failings here.
But in light of Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time (they didnt fundamentally change 
over the period in question) I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have recommended  PPI  
I think it was ultimately suitable for them. For example:
Mr H was eligible for the policy.
he was employed  and in good  health at the time, so wasnt affected by the significant  
exclusions on or limits to the cover  for example for existing medical  conditions  or 
unusual employment  circumstances.
Mr H says he had 12 months  full sick pay. Unfortunately the adviser hasnt recorded 
this level of detail  on the paperwork Ive seen.  But given Mr Hs employment tenure 
 hed been with his employer for just one year  and the nature of his role, I think  it 
wouldve been very unusual, and in my view unlikely, for him to have had such a 
high level of sick pay entitlement.  I think it likely  his sick pay terms were  generous  
given his employer  - but not to the level he says it was.
I think this is supported by the fact that Mr and Mrs H consistently indicated it was 
important for Mr H to be protected against  accident,  sickness and unemployment 
and for the full amount  of the mortgage.  If Mr H had what  he regarded  as sufficient 
existing means, then I might have  expected  that to be reflected in the answers to the 
questions they were asked by the adviser.
So I think Mr and Mrs H did have a need for cover  and it wouldve proved useful to 
them if things went wrong. The policy wouldve  paid out alongside any sick pay 
allowing this to be used  for other ongoing household expenditure. They were also 
borrowing a not insignificant amount (which increased over time) secured on their 
home. So in these circumstances I think Mr and Mrs H wouldve wanted to protect  
their asset  and to ensure they didnt find themselves struggling financially if Mr H 
was unable to work  for a period of time.
theres no evidence  to suggest  the policy was unaffordable each time, so its cost 
didnt make it unsuitable.
the policy was a regular monthly  premium policy, so it couldve been cancelled  at 
anytime and without penalty.
Ref: DRN48942053the information
The available evidence doesnt  tell me how or when the cost information was given  to Mr 
and Mrs H or whether  they were given clear and timely information about  the significant  
features and exclusions of cover. So I accept its possible there were gaps here.
But for the same reasons  Ive given above  as to why I think the policy  was suitable for Mr 
and Mrs H, I think theyd have still taken  out PPI had Lloyds done anything more   I dont 
think their decision wouldve been any different.
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to do anything  to put things right.
In closing and to address Mr Hs question he posed  in response to the adjudicators opinion 
(he asked that if the policy wasnt mis-sold,  why he didnt claim on it in 2003 when he was 
made redundant)  while  Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage at this time, the PPI policy didnt  
start until 2004 as Ive set out above. So there  was no policy for Mr H to claim on at this time. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 October  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4894205