K820x#14complaint
Mr T is complaining that CIS General Insurance Limited didnt make it clear  that his named 
driver would  lose an introductory  discount  if they had an accident which resulted in a claim 
being made on his car insurance  policy. 
background
Mr T took out a car insurance  policy through CIS. He says he took out the policy through CIS 
because it had an option for the named driver to generate their own named driver discount  
(NDD). And he says he wanted his partner (Ms R) to start accruing her own NDD with the 
view of potentially taking  out her own policy with CIS.
The policy renewed  after a year,  but Ms R was involved  in an accident during the second 
year. CIS said that this meant that she wasnt able to benefit from a NDD any longer. Mr T 
says that the policy wording doesnt  say anything about the named driver losing their NDD 
after an accident once  they have accrued any NDD. He says he wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had CIS explained  the named driver  would lose their NDD if they made a claim. He 
says he specifically spoke  to CIS to discuss the NDD before he took out the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that the named driver didnt accrue  a 
no claims discount while on the insurance policy. But she said that a named driver could 
claim up to three years NDD if they take out a new policy through CIS as the policyholder 
themselves. The adjudicator said that shed listened  to all the telephone calls Mr T had with 
CIS when  taking out the policy and she didnt think he had discussed the NDD with CIS at 
the time.  
The adjudicator highlighted that the policy summary  set out that, to be eligible for the NDD, 
the named driver cant have had an accident or loss resulting in a claim under that policy. So 
she was satisfied that CIS had acted fairly.
Mr T didnt  agree with the adjudicator because he maintains that the policy  doesnt set out 
that the named driver loses their NDD if they make  a claim. And he didnt think  the 
adjudicator had understood the complaint  correctly.  
As Mr T didnt agree, the complaints been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
Mr T is complaining that Ms R didnt generate a NDD on the policy.  But an NDD isnt 
something she could  generate  over the term of Mr Ts policy  instead it was an introductory 
discount CIS might provide if she sought  to take out a new policy with herself as a 
policyholder. I think this is shown by the wording of the policy summary which says:
Ref: DRN47632812As a new proposer  you may be entitled  to our Named Driver Discount if you are aged 20 or 
over and you meet the criteria detailed below.  This infers that its not a guaranteed discount 
and is subject to certain  conditions.
Mr T says that the terms of the policy dont say that a named driver loses their NDD if they 
make a claim. And I dont dispute  that. But, unlike a no claims discount, it also doesnt  say 
that they earn a NDD from being a named  driver on the policy   i.e. its not a contractual 
benefit the policy provides. 
Insurers will include exclusions  or limitations  to a policy where  theyre looking to limit a 
benefit a policy provides  under its terms and conditions.  But as the NDD is not a benefit  the 
policy gives, I wouldnt expect CIS to include a term to say the NDD will be reduced if they 
make a claim.
However, irrespective of this, the policy summary that Mr T was given when he took out the 
policy sets out the following:
Please note that this Discount  can only be used  under a [CIS] Insurance  motor  car policy  
and cannot be transferred  to another insurer. You may be entitled  to a Discount of up to 65% 
provided that:
you are, or have  been within the last 12 months, a named driver on another  Co-op 
Insurance motor  car policy for a continuous period of at least  12 months
you have not had an accident or loss resulting in a claim under that Co-op Insurance  
motor policy for the period for which the Discount is being  claimed,  up to:
(i)the date you ceased to drive  under  that policy, or
(ii)if you are still a named driver, up to the commencement date of the new policy
you have not had an accident or loss resulting in a claim under any other  motor  policy,  
for the period for which the Discount is being  claimed, up to the commencement date of 
the new policy
Im satisfied that CIS has made  it clear  that the NDD is only available if the named driver  
hasnt had an accident which resulted in a claim being made during the time theyre looking 
to get discount  from. So I cant say that it didnt make this clear to Mr T when he took out the 
policy. Ive also listened to all the telephone calls CIS had with Mr T when he first took out 
the policy. And I havent seen anything to show that Mr T did discuss  the NDD with CIS at 
the time or that it gave  him any incorrect information in this respect.
So, taking everything  into account, I cant say that CIS has acted unfairly  in this case.
Ref: DRN47632813my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4763281