K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy The Claim Guys Limited (TCG) is charging him a fee for a mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  claim.
background
In July 2018, Mr C signed  an agreement for TCG to represent him in submitting a mis-sold  
PPI claim. In August 2018, TCG submitted his claim to his lender. The claim was successful. 
But Mr C said he wasnt happy that TCG wanted to charge a success  fee. 
Mr C doesnt feel the fee being asked for by TCG should be paid, as he said TCG wasnt 
authorised to act as his representative. He said hed cancelled its authorisation to represent  
him in October  2018, before his claim was successful. Also TCG  had confused his lender by 
sending several  letters of authority about  a number of different credit cards. And that hed 
had to spend some time with his lender in trying to determine the outcome of his claim.  So  
feels he had done  the work, not TCG.
TCG said Mr C didnt  try to cancel the agreement until October  2018,  and it told him it would 
apply a cancellation charge equal  to its success fee, if the claim was cancelled  after a 
reasonable claim offer had been  made.  But TCG  did reduce its fee from 30% plus VAT to 
the 20% plus VAT fee cap, introduced in July 2018.
Mr C wasnt happy with TCGs response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said the claim  had been successful  before Mr C said he no longer wanted 
TCG to act on his behalf. And as TCG had reduced  its fee in line with the cap, she wouldnt 
be asking it to do anything  differently.
Mr C disagreed and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Cs 
complaint and Ill explain why.
The agreement Mr C signed, with TCG, on 20 July 2018 was on a No win No fee basis. 
This means  TCG charged a percentage success  fee, not a fee based  upon the amount of 
work they actually did. So, any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for 
free. Where  a claim was successful, TCGs fee may be more or less than the value of the 
work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. 
Mr C said the claim  wouldnt have been successful if he hadnt  resolved the confusion TCG 
had caused with his lender. But the terms and conditions  of the agreement he had with TCG 
say:
the Company may contact you directly and you will inform TCG promptly  of this and 
any relevant matters affecting your claim(s).
Mr C chose to deal with his lender direct. But in signing the agreement in July 2018, hed 
asked TCG to represent him with the claim.  His choice doesnt alter this fact. When his 
Ref: DRN47834402lender needed clarification Mr C should  have told TCG about this, to let TCG, as his 
representative deal with his lender. And so, it doesnt make TCGs fee unjustified.
Mr C called TCG, 12 October 2018, to cancel his claim. TCG  said he was referred to the 
cancellation terms of his agreement. TCG also said it got a letter from the lender dated  4 
October 2018, (but said it wasnt received until 17 November  2018), saying theyd  been  
instructed to remove TCG as Mr Cs representative.  The terms and conditions Mr C signed 
say: 
You may cancel Your Claim(s) at any time,  up to 14 days from the date your 
Claim(s) are submitted to the Company (Cooling-off Period), at no cost to you.
TCG submitted Mr Cs claims in August 2018, so the cancellation in October 2018 was after 
the cooling  off period.  So Im satisfied that TCG can charge a fee.
The terms and conditions  do go on to explain  that if the agreement  is cancelled after the 
cooling off period had elapsed, a charge would be made that was reasonable and 
proportionate to the work done.  But under  the terms of the agreement  it also says:
If you cancel  your claim(s) after an offer of reasonable  compensation is due
to you, then TCG shall be entitled to issue you a cancellation charge equal to the
fee(s)
So in deciding what fee TCG can charge Mr C I need to determine  whether  he cancelled  his 
authorisation for TCG before or after he knew his claim was successful.
When TCG  submitted its request to the lender, it was told by them  that there were several 
PPI policies. This included a loan and credit cards. TCG asked Mr C to sign several letters  of 
authority, and once  signed, it submitted claims for all of the PPI policies at the same time.
In September  2018, the loan claim was successful. Mr C was paid his compensation and 
TCG charged a fee of £406.70,  which Mr C paid. 
When the lender  reviewed  the other submitted claims they asked Mr C about the number of 
credit cards he had. And a further offer was made, by the lender for the credit card claim; its 
letter was dated  12 October 2018.  
I dont know the exact  date of the call Mr C had with his lender about  his credit card claim, so 
I can only go on what I think is most likely  to have happened. The letter  from the lender to 
TCG, saying TCG was no longer authorised to represent Mr C, was dated 4 October 2018. 
So I think Mr C had a call with his lender on this date.  During  this call Mr C would  have 
made clear the number  of credit cards  he actually had. And I think told his lender he no 
longer authorised TCG to be his representative  which generated the letter.  
Mr C also tried to cancel  the agreement with TCG on 12 October 2018, the same day the 
letter from his lender confirming the success of his claim was dated. So I think  its more likely 
than not that Mr C after speaking to his lender,  would  have known  his remaining claim was 
going to be successful. 
 
So, Im satisfied Mr C was aware his claim would  be successful before he removed his 
authorisation. TCG has been clear that a fee would be applied  on a successful claim.  And 
the claim was successful. So Im satisfied  TCG can charge a success  fee.
Ref: DRN47834403In the terms and conditions  of the agreement TCG  set out its fee as being 30% plus VAT. It 
also gave an example of what the monetary value of the fee would be, and what  payment its 
client would  get. 
But the Financial  Guidance and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the Claims Management 
Regulator to introduce  a fee cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force  on 10 July 2018 
 before Mr C signed the agreement with HYC. From this date, claims management 
companies couldnt legally charge a success fee of more than 20% plus VAT.
As the cap came into effect 10 July 2018, TCG can only charge a fee of no more than 20% 
plus VAT. TCG has reduced its fee for the credit  card claim, in line with the cap, to £414.55. 
And has already  said the fee charged  to the loan claim should  have been £271.13, not 
£406.70 as paid by Mr C.
So, Im satisfied that TCG can apply  its fee of £414.55 to Mr Cs successful credit card claim. 
In total Mr C has received  compensation of £2856.98 of which TCG should  get a fee in total 
of £685.68. As Mr C has already paid £406.70, he has a balance of £278.98 left to pay. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Ref: DRN4783440