K820x#14complaint
T Ltd through its representative Mr W complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) 
acted unfairly and unreasonably  when valuing the properties held within a portfolio of buy-to-
let mortgages.  It wants matters put right.
background
T Ltd had a portfolio of buy-to-let mortgages  with TMW and wanted to release two 
properties. It was unhappy  about  the valuation obtained by TMW  for those  properties  as 
different automated valuations were given within the course  of a month, and it was 
suspicious about the later review of those valuations. T Ltd was also unhappy that TMW  
refused to allow it to pay for internal valuations of the properties. It wanted TMW  to use a 
different system of valuation and to pay for an internal valuation.
Mr W complained  to TMW.  It said if T Ltd was unhappy with the automated valuations, it 
could pay for the whole portfolio to be internally valued at its own expense. TMW  said that 
this was its policy for all such customers. It paid compensation for an issue not brought  to 
this service.
Mr W complained  to us. TMW explained that the valuation changed due to the data input into 
the system by the valuer who prepared the valuations. The adjudicators view was that TMW 
wasnt at fault. He said the calculations to work out how much  T Ltd needed to pay to 
release properties  from the portfolio mortgage  was based on the loan to value  ratio (LTV  
the amount owed  compared to the value of the property) and rental  income, and these were 
worked out on the basis of the last valuation by TMW and the current mortgage balance.  
The adjudicator noted TMW had carried out three automated valuations  and did give 
different valuations for the two properties within July 2018, but didnt agree that TMW was 
required to then carry out an internal valuation. The guidance said that such a valuation was 
only required  if automated  valuation wasnt possible,  and it was possible in this case. The 
adjudicator also pointed out that TMWs  policy  was that if an internal valuation  was to be 
carried out, it had to be done  for all the properties  at T Ltds expense, and it was able to 
apply its own policies.  He also noted  that valuations were for the benefit of TMW,  not T Ltd 
and it appeared  that the calculations  of the sum required to release  the two properties were 
correct. Mr W disagreed  with the adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TMWs policy when  dealing with portfolio mortgages and applications to release properties 
from the portfolio  is to maintain the current LTV over the whole portfolio. It also considers the 
current value of the property and the current outstanding mortgage balance when calculating  
how much  is required  to allow a property to be released. Lenders are able to use their 
commercial judgement about lending decisions and apply their own policies, provided theyre 
applied fairly  and reasonably. So theres  nothing unfair  or unreasonable  about TMW  using 
current valuations.
Ref: DRN46159522And valuations do change often, but can include a subjective element. Ultimately, a property 
is only worth  what someone will pay for it, so a valuation is a best  guess. Properties within  
the same  building might have different  valuations  for a variety of reasons.  TMW  primarily 
uses automated valuations by a professional  valuer  to deal with applications to release a 
property from a portfolio  mortgage, which is a decision its able to make.  
The evidence shows that when Mr W challenged the valuation, TMW reviewed the issue. 
This is fair and reasonable. Its not within the remit of this service to say whether an 
individual valuation  is correct; we look at the actions of financial  businesses and TMW acted 
fairly in reviewing the matter. TMW isnt a professional valuer and is able to rely on 
valuations by a third party valuer,  provided it listens to challenges. Its policy  only allowed an 
internal valuation at TMWs expense if an automated valuation wasnt possible; the 
automated valuation was possible as shown  by the number of times they were done.  The 
difficulty is that T Ltd doesnt accept the valuations, but that isnt the same as being  unable 
to carry out an automated  valuations.
But in any event, TMWs policy allowed T Ltd to pay for an internal valuation  of the whole 
portfolio if it was unhappy. I think this is fair and reasonable as a portfolio mortgage covers  
all the properties  and the value of the entire portfolio is a key part of the calculation of the 
amount required  to release a property. Portfolio  mortgages dont deal with the properties 
within it separately.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T Ltd to accept or reject  my decision  before 
8 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4615952