K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 2001. Mrs R says Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
Mrs R took out the store  card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken responsibility  for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs R hasnt said much about  the time that PPI was sold to her  so Ive considered 
whether FICL gave  her a choice  in taking out the PPI  and I think that it did. FICL has 
provided a copy of Mrs Rs store card application, and I can see that the PPI is 
presented as optional, and Mrs R has signed  to select  it  this is separate  to her 
signature for taking  out the card. So I think FICL made it clear  that Mrs R didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may 
not remember this as it was so long ago.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs R got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs R has said, including  what  shes  said about having  
existing benefits  through  her work she couldve used to make repayments.  But the PPI 
couldve paid out on top of her existing cover  and for longer than Mrs R wouldve received 
full sick pay for. And it couldve protected  any redundancy pay for other expenses. So this 
point doesnt change my decision, and for the reasons set out above, I dont think  the policy 
was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Ref: DRN44128722Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4412872