K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the suitability  of the Target Return strategy  that Standard Life Wealth  
Limited, now Aberdeen Standard Capital Limited  (ASC)  used for his Discounted Gift Trust 
(DGT) investment.
background
In 2013 Mr M met with ASC to discuss it providing discretionary investment management for 
his pensions and other investments. He also received  advice about  what specific 
investments he should invest  in by an adviser  for Standard Life Private Client Management  
(SLPCM)
A risk profile assessment  was carried out which concluded Mr M was prepared to accept a 
higher than average level of risk. But following discussions  it was agreed his objective of a 
5% annual return could  be met with a medium risk portfolio strategy.
His ISAs were moved to ASC and new investments in an offshore  bond were set up which 
were invested through a Target Return portfolio with benchmarks  of cash + 3% for the ISA 
and cash + 3.5% for the offshore bond   the difference relating to the charges  that were  
applied.
The file notes of meetings  held in January and February 2015, recorded  that it was agreed  
Mr M would make a further investment into his ISA and a new investment of £600,000 in a 
new offshore bond through  a DGT. The notes confirmed Mr M wanted the same  risk and 
portfolio strategy  as for his existing ISA and offshore bond.
Disappointed with the returns achieved by his investments Mr M raised the matter with ASC 
comparing the performance of his investments  using  the Target Return portfolio strategy and 
the performance of other funds.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
short he said:
The DGT  was recommended  to mitigate  Mr Ms inheritance  tax liability. The suitability 
of that advice was not in question and did not form part of this complaint. 
The file notes from early 2015  showed  that Mr Ms circumstances had not materially 
changed from when  Mr M first invested using a Target Return portfolio in 2013  and 
he agreed he wanted to invest with the same strategy.
He did not consider  the profile report marked as for internal use only proved that the 
Target Return portfolio was unsuitable  and the historical performance of the portfolio 
clearly showed the returns Mr M was seeking were achievable.
The annual review  reports clearly  showed  the investment performance of Mr Ms 
investments. He did not consider Standard Life Wealth had an obligation to make 
performance comparisons with other  investment funds it offered during those reviews  
or to consider  switching the strategy after a relatively short  period.
He thought the complaint was about  investment performance, which on its own would  
not normally be sufficient  reason for this service  to consider upholding a complaint.
He considered the Target Return portfolios were suitable for a medium  risk investor  
and it was important  to note they did not guarantee a specific level of growth but 
aimed to provide a return with the potential to achieve a higher level.
Ref: DRN41975332Mr M didnt  agree with the adjudicator. He made the following comments:
The 2015 investments were  made  on the basis of a short phone call made  by 
SLPCM and there was no effort to review matters  in detail as to alternative  
investments.
ASC clearly breached  its own rules  as to carrying  out a fresh  risk assessment and 
that instead a special  sign off was obtained  to breach the rule.
The adviser discussed what he wanted to do in a short phone call when  he okayed 
the investment  in the same pot. There wasnt any later discussion to review  
alternative investments.
The real change to his circumstances was that he was investing around a further 
£900,000.
The 2016 review  details that he had a capacity for loss of 10-25%  and it could  be 
higher than this which indicates he was always in the wrong  (lower  risk) investments.
He doesnt  agree that there was informed consent in terms of what the court  said in 
the case of Montgomery  v Lanarkshire Health Board.
His complaint is fairly categorised as being  about a lack of critical comparative 
information about investment performance and not about  investment performance.
The omission of comparative information leaves the customer  blinded  as to how 
badly Target Returns  were doing. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr M first invested into a Target Return portfolio in 2013 in relation to his ISA and an 
Investment Bond.  I have already considered his complaint against ASC in relation to that.
In deciding whether  ASC did anything  wrong in relation to Mr Ms DGT I think  it is first of all 
necessary to consider the initial investment into the portfolio in 2013 given the evidence  
indicates he agreed to use the same approach in 2015. In other  words  if it was wrong for him 
to be recommended a Target Return  portfolio in 2013 then, but for a change  in 
circumstances,  the  investment into the same portfolio  in 2015 would also be wrong.
I have already dealt  with in Mr Ms complaint about  being wrongly  recommended  the 
portfolio in 2013. I issued a decision not upholding his complaint as I wasnt persuaded that 
the Target Return portfolio was unsuitable  for him. I think my main findings  in that complaint 
are relevant  to this decision and adopt  them in relation  to this complaint. In short  I found:
Mr M was a medium/high risk investor in 2013.
The Target Return Portfolio was a lower risk than he was willing  to take.
Mr M was aware it was a lower  risk and accepted this because  it could still achieve 
his objective of a 5% return.
The fact that Mr M had historically  invested in higher  risk investments didnt make  the 
portfolio unsuitable.
I didnt think ASC had done anything wrong in not disclosing an internal profile report 
that indicated  a 5% return wasnt possible and was based on certain assumptions 
including constant annual returns of a certain level. The portfolio return in the 
previous two years had been above the 5% return he wanted  and I wasnt persuaded 
Ref: DRN41975333the Discretionary Portfolio Manager (DPM) didnt have a reasonable basis  for 
thinking that there was realistic prospect of a return of 5% overall from the portfolio.
Mr M invested  further amounts in his ISA and Bond in 2015 within the Target Return 
portfolio although  the risk of the portfolio had changed from medium to medium low.
I was satisfied Mr M had agreed to this new investment into his existing ISA and 
Bond being  managed in the same way as the initial investment in 2013 and with the 
level of risk which the portfolio now had.
I didnt think a fresh risk assessment wouldve  changed what  happened so ASCs  
failure to carry one out didnt  change anything. The purpose of the risk assessment 
wasnt to consider all possible alternative  portfolios.
The role of the DPM was to ensure  that decisions made  about  Mr Ms portfolio were 
in line with the agreed mandate and appropriate  for the risk Mr M was prepared to 
take and his objective and I wasnt persuaded he hadnt done  this.
In the light of my findings about  what happened in 2013 I have now considered what 
happened with regard to the further  DGT  investment  in 2015 which  was put in the same 
Target Return portfolio. This complaint  is against ASC and as I made  clear  in the other 
complaint made by Mr M against ASC,  any issues  with regard to advice he received from the 
adviser for SLPCM is separate.  So I am not considering what  the adviser did within this 
complaint.
At the beginning  of 2015 Mr M wanted to invest some further money. I have seen a file note 
signed by the DPM dated 11 February 2015 which indicates there were two discussions with 
Mr M, the first on the 21 January 2015 and the second on 6 February 2015. It appears from 
the note that the discussions were with both the adviser for SLPCM  and also the DPM for 
ASC. I note Mr M has referred to just having one telephone discussion. But whether there 
was one discussion or two, I have  seen no persuasive evidence  that indicates that the 
record of what was discussed is wrong.
The file note records that Mr Ms circumstances hadnt materially  changed but that he 
wanted to invest  some more money  and that he will invest a further £15K in his ISA, £385K  
in his Investment  Bond  and £600K  in a new Offshore Bond within a DGT based on the 
advice he received from the adviser.
The file note records that Mr M wanted the same risk and portfolio strategy  for the DGT 
investment as he had for his existing ISA and Investment Bond. He hasnt suggested he 
didnt agree to this. His objective for the DGT  investment is stated to be to grow the value of 
portfolio whilst maintaining a medium  low level of risk targeting  Sterling LIBOR + 3.5% over 
10 years.  This matched  his objective for his other investments.
The reference to a medium low risk profile when  the risk for the Target Return portfolio in 
2013 was identified as medium risk was, according  to ASC,  a result  of it taking over the 
Newton Private Client business which led to it reviewing the risk profiles of the various 
portfolios it offered and reclassifying these. It has said this didnt change Mr Ms objective or 
investment strategy  so didnt require a change  to his portfolio.  
Mr M was aware of this change at the time he agreed to the DGT investment being invested 
in the Target Return portfolio so was aware that the portfolio now was classed  as a medium 
low risk portfolio.
Im satisfied on the evidence I have  seen that Mr M agreed to the DGT  investment in 2015 
being managed in the same Target Return portfolio as his existing  ISA and Investment Bond 
Ref: DRN41975334investments and that the portfolio was suitable for his risk appetite  and objective and in 
accordance with the agreed mandate.
Im not persuaded that ASC did anything wrong  because it didnt carry out a fresh  risk 
assessment. Even if it had carried out a new risk assessment Im not persuaded that this 
wouldve led to Mr M not agreeing to his DGT investment being  managed  by way of the 
Target Return portfolio as I explained  in my findings on Mr Ms other complaint.
Mr M has suggested his agreement to the portfolio wasnt on the basis  of informed consent 
and I have considered the case he has referred  to which was about informed consent with 
regard to medical treatment. But what the DPM had to do was provide information about the 
recommended portfolio  and the risks so that Mr M could  make an informed decision as to 
whether he wanted  his investment managed in the Target Return  portfolio.  And Im satisfied 
that the DPM provided Mr M with the information  he needed to decide if he wanted his 
investment managed on that basis.
There was no requirement  on the part of the DPM to disclose the internal profile  report  it had 
carried out or compare  the Target Return  portfolio with other portfolios ASC had. What the 
DPM had to be satisfied  of was that the recommended Target Return portfolio was suitable  
for M based on the agreed  mandate which I have already said it was.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M either  to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4197533