K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold them  two payment protection 
insurance policies  alongside a mortgage  in 1998 and in 2002  (account number ending 
6783).
   
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a number of mortgages  and further advances  between 1998 and 
2004 in joint names.  They  didnt take out PPI on each  of these borrowings but in 1998 they 
also took out a PPI policy in both their names.
This policy covered  Mr C for 75% and Mrs C for 25% of the benefit. It cost £23.20 and would 
have covered Mr and Mrs C if they were  off work through accident and sickness or if they 
lost their jobs for up to 12 months per claim.
In 2002 whilst the further borrowing was also in joint names, they also took out a PPI policy.  
This time it only covered Mr C. This policy cost a monthly premium of £17.50.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with 
that view. They said that they were led to believe that the PPI was part of the terms of the 
first mortgage  it wasnt suggested  that they had a free choice. They  were  only told it was 
optional in 2008 which is why they cancelled it. And they say they had sick pay and other 
insurance which could  have covered them. They asked  that their matter referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs C say they were never  told the PPI was optional. They  thought they had to take 
out the cover in order to get the mortgage and they say it wasnt suggested they had a free 
choice about taking out the cover. Ive looked  carefully at both sales  of the PPI to help me 
decide if Mr and Mrs C were  given a fair choice.
sale in 1998
Ive been provided  with a copy of the mortgage  application from 1998.  This has been 
completed and there is a section about  the PPI. This states  I wish to apply for C&G 
Payment Protection  Plus cover; I have completed the relevant proposal form and am 
returning this with this application. The box besides  this statement has been  ticked.  Below 
there was also the option for Mr and Mrs C to say they did not wish to receive a quotation. 
This option could  have  been selected if Mr and Mrs C didnt want the cover. I have  also seen 
a copy of the payment protection proposal  form which has been completed with 
Mr and Mrs Cs details, including information  about their jobs and the amount  of the 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs Cs details of cover and how they wanted the benefit to be split 
between them have  also been filled in. This form has been signed  and dated. 
Ref: DRN48424042Following this I think they would have been  sent a letter enclosing  a policy schedule which  
asked Mr and Mrs C to check the details and requesting them to check that the cover was 
right for them. 
I also note a direct debit mandate has been completed to the bank  for the cost of the PPI. 
Overall, the evidence shows that Mr and Mrs C added the PPI and I think  they knew  they 
could refuse  it if they didnt want it. They  could  have been told it was a good idea to take out 
the cover  but thats not the same thing  as being told they had to have the PPI in order to get 
the mortgage. Theres also nothing written into the conditions set out on the mortgage offer 
in 1998 which would  have led Mr and Mrs C to think they had to have the PPI in order to get 
their loan.
sale in 2002
Ive been provided  with a copy of the mortgage  application from 2002.  This time the 
application form was completed with Mr and Mrs Cs details and again the section about PPI 
has been ticked to apply for the PPI. On the same  form theres also a choice to leave the 
PPI. Theres nothing on the mortgage offer which would likely make Mr and Mrs C think they 
had to take out the cover in order to get the mortgage. And on this occasion  Mr C chose to 
cover himself only, not Mrs C so to me that seems that Mr and Mrs C chose what type of 
insurance they wanted and who should be covered. I can also see that a direct debit 
mandate was completed in 2002  for the PPI.
All in all I dont doubt what Mr and Mrs C have told me is what they honestly  remember 
about the two sales  but I have also thought the sales of these policies happened many  years 
ago and it is difficult to remember exactly what happened  so long ago. But looking at the 
paperwork I think Mr and Mrs C had a choice about buying the PPI in 1998 and in 2002  and 
chose it knowing they could decline it if they didnt  want it. 
I can see Mr and Mrs C dont think this was an advised sale.  They  say when  it was first 
taken out it was more  of an advice to have. Lloyds says this was an advised sale in 1998 
and in 2002. I think it was and Ive looked at this as if it were an advised sale. I think this is 
fair to Mr and Mrs C because as a recommended sale it put more responsibility on Lloyds for 
how it sold the PPI and it meant Lloyds needed  to check it was suitable for them. It also had 
to give Mr and Mrs C enough clear  information  about the cover  so they could decide for 
themselves whether it was right for their circumstances.
To help me decide, I have thought about  their circumstances at the time in 1998 and in 
2002. Looking  at the terms and conditions of the policies and Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances 
I cant say the PPI was unsuitable for them. 
Mr and Mrs C were eligible for the cover in 1998  and Mr C was eligible for the cover  in 
2002.And it doesnt seem to me that they would have been  affected by any of the main 
exclusions or limitations which might have  prevented them or made it more difficult to make 
a successful claim. Mr C told us he became self-employed but I dont think he was self- 
employed in 1998 or in 2002  when he took out the cover.
Mr and Mrs C say they were both in full time employment at the time and would have 
received sick pay. I appreciate Mr and Mrs C were in full time employment and would have 
received sick pay. But both these policies would have paid out in addition to and for longer 
than their full sick pay would have lasted.
Ref: DRN48424043I have thought about their other  insurance in place but I cant say these covered the same 
thing or for as long as the PPI.
I have also taken into account that these  policies were taken to cover a mortgage. If 
Mr or Mrs C lost their jobs or couldnt work  in 1998, or if Mr C lost his job in 2002,  there  
would quickly be a shortfall in their income.  And the consequences of being unable to cover 
their mortgage repayments were  serious. Mr C says when he was made  redundant he was 
advised to take a payment holiday and not to claim on the policy. I cant say what  
Mr and Mrs C were told at the time.  But if Mr and Mrs C want to explore making a back  
dated claim they should refer this to the insurer first of all. I have only looked at whether this 
policy was mis-sold. Looking at everything I still think the PPI was useful if things went  
wrong.
Theres nothing which makes me think the PPI would have been  unaffordable.
Its possible not all the information was as clear as it could have been but as Ive set out 
above, I think Mr and Mrs C probably chose to buy PPI at the time  so it looks  as though 
they wanted this type of cover. And I think they could have made  a successful claim if 
necessary. It follows that I dont  think more or better  information about the PPI would  have 
put them off buying it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 November 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4842404