K820x#14complaint
Mrs H companied about the advice she received from an adviser in 1993  to transfer her 
occupational pension scheme  (OPS) benefits  to a personal  pension.  The advice was given 
by a business which preceded Gallagher  Risk & Reward Limited. Subsequently Mrs H 
became aware  she will receive a lower pension from the personal pension than from the 
OPS.
background
Mrs H was a member  of her employers pension  scheme. An adviser from a business I will 
call T advised her to take the transfer value from the OPS, giving up her accrued final salary  
benefits, and to set up the personal  pension.
T went  out of business in 2001  and was taken over by a business I will call R. Mrs H 
complained to her pension provider in early 2017  as she didnt know who else to approach. 
The personal pension  provider informed her R had ultimately been taken over by Gallagher. 
However, Gallagher didnt  accept  it was responsible for the transfer  advice and suggested 
Mrs H approach the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
An adjudicator looked into the complaint  and didnt recommend it be upheld.  He said that, 
from the limited evidence available after 24 years, Gallagher wasnt responsible for the 
advice provided  by T. He hadnt been able to identify a credible link between the two firms. 
The adjudicator noted there were a series  of transfers of ownership regarding the 
businesses involved over the years, starting with T in 2001.  Subsequently T had been taken 
over by R, which also ceased trading in 2006.  R was itself subsequently  taken over by a 
business I will call O. 
As noted by the adjudicator, O became part of another business which  I will call O Services  
which is still trading. However,  the adjudicator noted that during the transfer between  R and 
O it appeared that the assets were transferred but the liabilities of R or T were not taken on 
by O. And in any event,  in the adjudicators view, there was insufficient evidence  to conclude 
that Gallagher had any involvement in or liability for Mrs Hs apparent  financial losses.
Mrs H didnt agree. She said she was aware  that an ex-work colleague might have had a 
similar claim upheld  and received a settlement. However, no further details  were  provided. 
She engaged a firm of financial  advisers to pursue her claim and they submitted details of 
the apparent loss she had suffered as a result  of the advice. However, they didnt 
demonstrate that Gallaghers had any connection with T which  would make  it liable.
my findings
Ive considered all the evidence  and arguments  in order to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mrs H and it seems  likely that she was given poor advice, but I 
need to be satisfied that Gallagher is responsible for that advice.  I cannot  ask it to pay 
recompense for advice for which it is not responsible. It isnt surprising that there  is little 
evidence available  regarding  the events of more than 25 years ago in 1993.
Ref: DRN45261762It seems  probable that Mrs H will receive a lower pension as a result of the advice to 
transfer. However, I havent  been able to conclude that Gallagher  is responsible  for the 
advice provided  in 1993 to transfer out of the OPS.
Section 234B of Financial Services and Markets  Act says: (1) This section applies where  a 
person (the successor) has assumed a liability  (including a contingent one) of a person (the 
predecessor) who was, or (apart from this section)  would have been,  the respondent in 
respect of a complaint falling to be dealt  with under the ombudsman  scheme .
In essence this means it has to be established that Gallagher has assumed the liability  for T. 
The evidence is limited,  not least because of the time which has elapsed  and the number of 
businesses involved.  Despite his best efforts the adjudicator hasnt  been  able to establish 
that Gallagher has any responsibility for the advice given to Mrs H. I too have endeavoured  
to see of such a link exists, but to no avail.
T provided the advice  and went out of business  in 2001. Whilst the assets and liabilities 
might have been taken  over by R, it appears  that the same cannot be said for the 
subsequent take-over by O. That being the case the liability  did not pass on to any 
successor firms.
I agree  that there is no evidence to link Gallagher with T or the firms which  took it over, to 
the extent that I could  reasonably uphold  the complaint against Gallagher.  I understand 
Mrs H has taken the matter to the FSCS  which apparently referred  her to this service.  It may 
be appropriate, now we have established that Gallagher has no connection with T which  has 
ceased to trade, for her to take the matter back to the FSCS.
my final decision
I have not been able to determine that Gallagher  Risk & Reward  Limited is responsible for 
the advice Mrs H received  in 1993 and I am therefore not able to uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4526176