K822xcomplaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him Additions  and 
Additions Plus packaged bank accounts  in 1999 and in 2006.
background
I attach my provisional decision of 25 January 2019, which forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I set out why I intended  to say that what Barclays  had proposed to 
do to put things right for Mr M was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case. I 
invited both parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision. 
Following this, Mr M responded  to say he agreed with my provisional  decision. And Barclays 
didnt provide anything further for me to think about.    
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its pleasing to see that the parties  have agreed  with my provisional decision. And as neither 
party has provided  anything further  for me to think about, I see no reason to change  the 
conclusions or the award I made  in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 25 January 2019,  Im 
upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Barclays Bank plc should pay Mr M compensation in line with the instructions set out in my 
provisional decision of 25 January 2019.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN46709232COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him Additions and Additions 
Plus packaged bank  accounts in 1999 and in 2006.
background
When Mr M initially complained to Barclays, it told him it didnt think that it had done anything  wrong  
when selling him his packaged accounts.  Mr M was dissatisfied at this and referred his complaint here 
for consideration.
When we requested its file of papers on Mr Ms complaint, Barclays revised  its position. It accepted 
that it mis-sold the Additions Plus account to Mr M. But it still maintained  it didnt  do anything  wrong 
when selling the Additions account.  So it agreed to offer the difference  in fees between the Additions 
and Additions  Plus account, plus interest, - up until the point it sent Mr M an Annual Summary  
Statement (Statement) in 2012 - in order  to put things right. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at Barclays  offer and didnt think  that it was fair. He didnt think  that it 
was fair for Barclays to refuse to refund the account fees paid after it sent Mr M his statement. 
Barclays disagreed  and decided that it should be entitled  to only refund the difference  in fees up until 
Mr M was migrated onto the Tech and Travel Packs, from its feature store, in January  2017.  As 
Barclays didnt agree  with our adjudicator  the case was passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve explained  how we handle complaints about  
packaged bank accounts on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms 
complaint.
Barclays has agreed that it mis-sold the Additions Plus account to Mr M. And given its view on the 
sale of the Additions account and how it wants to limit the compensation  paid to Mr M, I think  that 
there are two questions for me to consider  in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1)Was the Additions packaged bank account mis-sold  to Mr M in 1999?
2)Is it fair and reasonable  for Barclays not to refund the fees Mr M paid for the Tech  and Travel 
packs from January  2017 onwards?  
Ill consider each of these  questions in turn.
Was the Additions packaged  bank account mis-sold  to Mr M in 1999?
Ive started by thinking  about whether Mr M was given a clear choice  in taking the accounts.  At this 
point, it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based on what I think is most  
likely to have happened.  And in working out what  I think  is most  likely to have happened, I have  to 
think about everything Ive been told together with everything else Ive been provided  with and see 
how this fits with what I do know. In other words, what l have to do, in this case,  is decide what I think 
is most likely  to have happened having weighed up what Mr M and Barclays  have been  able to 
provide me with.
Mr M upgraded to the fee paying  Additions account  from a free account hed had for a significant 
period of time. So I think that Mr M wouldve known that Barclays did free accounts and that he 
couldve had one of those if thats what he really wanted. 
Ref: DRN46709233Mr M says he was told he had to have the account in order to have an overdraft. But it may help for 
me to explain  that when  I say Mr Ms previous  account was free I mean  this in the context of there 
being no fees for standard everyday banking  facilities  such as paying  cheques, making debit card 
transactions and paying direct debits. And if Mr M wanted borrowing  facilities on this account   i.e. 
have an overdraft   there were fees.  
Mr M wouldve had to pay a £5 a month overdraft usage fee each month he used  his overdraft. And I 
can see that Mr M paid this fee in a number  of the months leading up to the upgrade. So Mr M paid £5 
a month to use his overdraft  even though he didnt  have a packaged  account. 
On the other hand the Additions account cost £6 a month. But having the Additions account meant Mr 
M wouldnt  have to pay the £5 a month overdraft usage fee hed have had to pay on his existing 
account. The account also included  an interest-free  overdraft portion  of £100. This meant anyone who 
was using  an overdraft, or who was likely to use an overdraft, within  their agreed limit was likely to 
save money by upgrading. And, in these circumstances, I think its unlikely  Barclays wouldve misled 
Mr M into thinking  he had to have the account, when there was a possibility it stood to make less 
money overall from him. 
So overall and having thought about everything Ive seen and while  Ive given careful thought  to what  
Mr Ms said, I think its most likely Mr M was given  a clear  choice on upgrading.  And I think its most  
likely that he chose  to upgrade to the Additions account.     
As the sale took place a long time ago there isnt much left from the time that the account was sold.  
But taking everything Ive been provided  with together, I dont think  that Barclays recommended  to 
account to Mr M. So this means that Barclays didnt have to ensure  it was right for Mr M. It was up to 
Mr M to decide this for himself. But Barclays had to provide Mr M with clear enough information to do 
this. 
At the time Mr M upgraded to the Additions account there wasnt much else other than the overdraft 
benefits included  on the package (I appreciate other benefits were added  over time but I need to think  
about the circumstances  at the time the account was sold).  And as previously explained,  Mr M had an 
overdraft which he was using before the upgrade  and which he continued  using afterwards.  So I think 
that he wouldve  found the overdraft benefit useful.
Im open to the possibility Mr M wasnt told about all the ins and outs of the Additions account.  But I 
do think he was told enough to know and understand  what it was he was agreeing to  indeed  his 
recollections of being sold the account primarily on the basis  of his overdraft  appears to support this. 
And as his circumstances dont suggest he wouldve been affected by any of the main limitations  and 
exclusions on the benefits, I dont think clearer information wouldve stopped him taking the accounts 
either. 
Mr M may now, with the benefit of hindsight,  believe that he hasnt benefitted from the Additions 
account as much as hed hoped and expected to when he initially took it out. And given what he 
mightve read and heard  about packaged accounts in general, I can understand why this might lead 
him to believe  his Additions account was mis-sold. But as explained earlier, I have to base my 
decision on what I think is most likely to have happened at the time of the sale and I cant use 
hindsight when reaching my conclusion. 
Overall I think  that Mr M chose to take the Additions account while having  a decent  appreciation of 
what it included. So I dont think that this account was mis-sold and Im intending to say that Barclays  
offer to place  Mr M in the position he wouldve  been  in if hed stayed  on this account   by refunding 
the extra  he paid for the Additions Plus account  isnt unfair.
Is it fair and reasonable for Barclays not to refund any part of the fees Mr M paid for the Tech and 
Travel packs from January  2017 onwards?  
Ref: DRN46709234Barclays says it shouldnt have to refund anything of the fees Mr M paid after it switched him to a free 
Barclays bank account with Tech and Travel  packs in January 2017. In its view, it notified Mr M of the 
upcoming changes in advance of them. So it was up to him to opt out of the Tech and Travel  packs  if 
he didnt want them.  
Ive carefully thought about  whats  been provided.
Barclays has provided  us with a copy of a letter it says it sent to Ms C in October 2016.  And it has 
also provided  a copy of a second letter it says it sent to her in January  2017.  Both these letters  were  
addressed to Mr Ms current address. So without anything to suggest  that these letters were returned 
to Barclays as undelivered, or that Mr M was experiencing problems receiving  his mail at the time, 
I think  that Mr M did most likely receive  these  letters  at some point in October 2016 and January 
2017.
I turn now to the content of the letters. The first page of the October 2016 letter  explained that Mr Ms 
Additions Plus account  would soon be changing to a free Barclays Bank Account with added  Tech 
and Travel  Packs. It explained the monthly cost would change  from the £16 Mr M paid for his 
Additions Plus account  to £18 for the Tech and Travel Packs. And the letter  also explained that if Mr 
M didnt want the Tech  and Travel Packs he had other options.
These options, detailed on the reverse of the letter,  were in summary asking Ms M to;
Do nothing if he was happy with the changes
Cancel the Tech and Travel Packs if he didnt want them (but he would keep his free bank 
account)
Look  at alternative insurance packs if he wanted to add these instead
Close his account entirely.
So I think that this letter is likely to have given Mr M a clear understanding his account was changing,  
and that he had options  in response to the change.
The second  letter repeated  the change in the monthly fee Mr M would need to pay and gave Mr M a 
very high level summary of the benefits of the Tech and Travel Packs. So I think that Mr M ought to 
have understood that hed now be paying fees for a separate package. 
Ive also thought  about  the argument that, if Mr M hadnt been mis-sold  his Additions Plus account in 
the first place, he wouldnt have  been affected  by the changes  in other words his loss in paying  
Tech and Travel  pack fees is directly  attributable  to him having  been mis-sold his Additions Plus 
account. But Mr M was sent personally addressed  letters.  And the letters  were  only telling Mr M about 
the upcoming  changes  they werent  written to tell him about  the account more generally, or to give 
him information about any changes to the benefits  the account offered.  
So overall I think  Barclays  did enough to make Mr M aware his account was changing, and what  he 
could do if he wasnt happy. And taking  into account everything Ive seen so far on this case, Im 
intending to say that its fair and reasonable for Barclays  to stop, or cap, its refund at this point. This 
means Im intending  to say that that Barclays  should  pay Mr M the difference in fees between what 
he paid for the Additions Plus account and what he wouldve paid if hed stayed on the Additions 
account, plus interest,  in order to put things right.
Ref: DRN46709235my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to say that what  Barclays Bank UK PLC has agreed to 
pay Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case.
If Barclays or Mr M have anything further  to add before I issue my final decision,  they should ensure 
anything they send reaches me by 25 February 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4670923