K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains on behalf of his late fathers estate that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) refuses to refund payments on his fathers account which he says were fraudulent.
background
In April 2016 Mr Hs father  brought a complaint to Halifax, assisted by Mr H, who held a 
power of attorney for his father, as he had Alzheimers. That complaint was about some  
fraudulent payments which  were made on his fathers account in 2014  and 2015, which  
added up to just over £3,800. That complaint was upheld by the bank, and the payments 
were refunded.
In September  of that year, Mr Hs father  tragically  died. Mr H is the executor of his fathers  
estate, and in that capacity  he brought  this second  complaint.  That is the complaint I am 
considering here. This complaint is about some  earlier transactions,  made between October 
2009 and December 2012,  which Mr H discovered  when  he was administering the estate. In 
May 2017 he provided the bank with a list of 87 payments his father had made, which for 
various reasons  he believed were fraudulent. Two of those had been disputed  and refunded  
at the time (in November 2012).
There followed a delay  of four months  during which nothing appears  to have happened, 
other than Mr H sending the bank  chasing  letters asking about progress. Eventually,  in 
September, the bank declined his claim. It gave three reasons: it had verified  one of the 
payments with a third party;  the original fraud claim in 2016  had not referred to these 
payments; and under the relevant regulations the bank was not obliged  to investigate 
payments which  were disputed more  than 13 months later.
Mr H did not accept that response. He said he had only disputed the genuine payment 
because its reference  on the bank statement had suggested  that it had been made to a 
telephone company rather than,  as the bank had discovered, to a travel  company. The bank 
had investigated  the 2016 complaint  even  though  that had also been  about payments which 
were more than 13 months old. His father had had Alzheimers, so the older  payments had 
not been spotted until Mr H had reviewed  his fathers statements after his death. And Mr H 
had already spoken to the banks  fraud  department on the phone,  who he said had told him 
that the payments were probably fraudulent and would be refunded.
Halifax issued its final response in November. It said it had asked the fraud department to 
review the case again, but its decision was still that the claim would be declined. As well as 
its original reasons, Halifax also said it had concluded that Mr Hs father  had appeared to 
have been able to manage  his account  (and travel alone),  despite  his Alzheimers. Mr H 
himself had conceded that two more of the disputed payments were in fact genuine. Some  of 
the payments  had been for credit report checks,  from which  a fraudster  would have been  
unlikely to benefit. And as his fathers  executor  (I think the bank meant attorney, as this 
was in a sentence about when his father was alive),  Mr H should  have  monitored  the 
account regularly  and thereby disputed the payments  within 13 months of when they were 
made. Halifax did however pay him £100 for poor customer service  relating to the delay.
Mr H brought this complaint to our Service. He said his father had been able to complain in 
2016 only because  he had helped him, and it wasnt fair of the bank to say that just because 
his father  had made that complaint he must have also been able to complain about the 
earlier payments too. Just because his father had been able to travel didnt mean that he 
Ref: DRN48724642had been able to manage his finances  adequately. It wasnt  in dispute  that his father  had 
been a victim of fraud in 2014 and 2015.  Just because three transactions out of 87 had been 
genuine didnt  mean that all the others were too. And the 13 months  time limit for disputing a 
transaction did not override a banks duty to ensure that only authorised transactions are 
executed. He referred to a case study  in Ombudsman News, number 116/11, in which our 
Service had upheld a complaint about  a banks refusal to investigate a payment which  had 
been challenged late.1
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She thought that Mr H had raised the dispute 
too late, because the 13 months time limit had expired. She thought it would be too difficult  
for her or Halifax to investigate all of the payments  now, so many  years later,  and to fairly 
conclude that the payments werent  authorised.  Just because Halifax  had investigated some  
payments older  than 13 months in 2016  didnt mean it had to do so again,  especially  as the 
payments involved  in this new complaint were even  older this time  Mr H had first 
complained about them  five to eight years after they were made. She also thought that Mr H 
would have noticed these payments in 2016,  when he helped his father challenge  the other 
payments.
Mr H did not accept that decision. He argued  that the 13 months should be counted  from 
when he became aware of the transactions,  not from when they were made. He had 
complied within 13 months  of discovering them,  but he hadnt known about the fraud sooner 
because he hadnt  investigated the earlier statements in 2016. That had come  later,  after his 
father had died and he had become responsible for the estate. Hed also had his own life, 
job and family to deal with. The account terms and conditions said that the bank had a duty 
to ensure that transactions  were authorised, and this should override the regulations.  He 
explained further his reasons for believing the transactions to be fraudulent.  He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I have seen Halifaxs contact notes, and I can find no record  of the phone call Mr H has 
described, in which  he says the fraud  department told him that the payments were  probably 
fraudulent and would be refunded. The fact that the fraud department  decided,  on two 
occasions, that the payments were  not fraudulent and would not be refunded,  suggests the 
opposite.
The 13 months  time limit is to be found in regulation 59 of the Payment Services  Regulations 
2009.2 Regulation  61 requires a payment service provider to immediately refund an 
unauthorised payment.  And regulation 59(1) says:
(1) A payment service  user is entitled to redress under regulation 61  only if [he] 
notifies the payment service  provider without undue  delay, and in any event  no later 
than 13 months after the debit date, on becoming aware of any unauthorised or 
incorrectly executed payment transaction.
1 See http://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/ombudsman-news/116/116-disputed-
transactions.html
2 See http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2009/209/regulation/59/made.  (The Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, which replaced the 2009 regulations,  did not come into force until January  2018,  
after the events leading to this complaint.)
Ref: DRN48724643Mr H has argued  that this means 13 months  after he first became aware that the payments  
were (or might be) unauthorised.  But I cannot accept that the language  of the regulation  is 
capable of bearing that meaning. It clearly says no later than 13 months  after the debit 
date, and these words  would have no place in the regulation if it meant  what  Mr H contends  
it means. The words which follow, on becoming aware  and so on, relate  only to the 
obligation to notify the payment  service provider without undue delay.
Regulation 59 should therefore be read as if it was written like this:
(1) A payment service  user, on becoming  aware of any unauthorised  or incorrectly  
executed payment transaction, is entitled to redress under regulation 61 only if he 
notifies the payment service  provider without undue  delay, and in any event  no later 
than 13 months after the debit date.
Mr H first raised  the disputed  payments with Halifax  four and a half years after the most 
recent one, and seven  and a half years after the earliest one. So he was not entitled  to 
redress under regulation  61 (or any other  regulation mentioned in regulation  59).
I have read the terms and conditions which applied to the account at the time Mr H raised 
the payments  with Halifax.  This is the October  2016  edition, which  supersedes the earlier  
versions. Paragraph  17.1 of Section C, on page  43, reads (so far as relevant)  as follows:
We will immediately refund  the amount  of a payment and any charges or interest 
you paid as a result of it, and pay you any interest we would have paid you on that 
amount, if  the payment was unauthorised  
Immediately below that is a box containing text entitled Additional information  about 
payment refunds. After  that it says:
Except for direct debits, we will not refund the payment if you tell us more than 13 
months after it was made that the payment  was not made properly or was 
unauthorised.
So I cannot accept  Mr Hs argument  that the terms and conditions of the account  override 
regulation 59. The regulation has been  incorporated in the terms and conditions. The 
payments he is complaining about  are not direct debits.
I have read the case study in Ombudsman News . However, I do not agree that that case  is 
the same  as this one. That case was about  a banks complete refusal  to investigate 
payments at all, on the ground  that the payments  were disputed  more than 13 months after 
they were made. Our Service upheld that complaint because we thought the bank should still 
have investigated  the matter. But in Mr Hs case, Halifax did investigate  one of the payments  
he was disputing, which had been made in January 2012. It contacted the third party the 
payment was made to, and the answer it received satisfied Halifax  that the payment was 
genuine. Mr H now also accepts that payment was genuine (as well as two others).
That was a payment  to a travel company. Mr Hs reason for suspecting  that particular  
payment had been because the reference  seemed to suggest it was to a phone  company. 
But Mr H had also disputed some other payments on the ground  that they were payments to 
holiday companies, and his father had not been on holiday. Yet when Halifax investigated 
Mr Hs complaint, it found that Mr Hs father had indeed been  on holiday, travelling alone, 
which Mr H either didnt  know  about  or had forgotten.
Ref: DRN48724644This illustrates the danger, and the potential for unfairness, inherent in investigating 
transactions years after the event, and when  the account holder is no longer around  to 
answer questions  about  them. There is a risk that genuine payments might  be mistaken for 
fraudulent ones for what may well appear  to be sound reasons. I dont think that is 
necessarily the reason  for the 13 months time limit in the regulations, but I do think it 
strengthens Halifaxs  argument  for not investigating the other 82 transactions  which are still 
in dispute.
Because Halifax didnt refuse to investigate at all, I think  that this case  is sufficiently different 
to the one in our case study that it is not inconsistent of me to reach  a different conclusion.
I accept Mr Hs explanation for why he and his father did not report  these payments in 2016, 
when they raised  the other  fraud claim. It simply may not have  occurred to them  at the time 
that they should also check the statements as far back  as 2009, and in any case they didnt 
still have statements that old. (The statements for 2009 to 2012  were provided to Mr H later.)  
So if that had been Halifaxs only reason for declining the claim he made in 2017,  I would not 
have accepted that as a sufficient reason.
However, I think it is significant that in November 2012 Mr Hs father disputed two payments 
straight away. These payments were similar  to most of the other  payments  which  Mr H is 
now challenging. They were refunded immediately. That strongly suggests that if the other 
payments made in 2012 (and earlier) were not authorised by him, then he could have said 
so at the time. That in turn suggests  that they were  authorised by him.
That was nearly  four years before he was diagnosed with Alzheimers. I recognise that a 
person may have  Alzheimers for some time before a formal diagnosis  is made, but there is 
not enough evidence on which I could safely conclude that his capacity was already so 
diminished in 2012  that he could not have  reported the payments about which his son is 
complaining now.
I therefore dont  think it would be fair and reasonable of me to order HSBC to investigate  the 
rest of the disputed  payments.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4872464