K821x#15complaint
Ms E, represented by a third party, complains  that CASH ON GO LIMITED (trading as 
Peachy) lent money  to her that she couldnt  afford to repay.
background
Based on the information provided, Peachy lent to Ms E on five occasions between May 
2015 and July 2018.
Loan Amount Date Instalments Repaid
1 £80.00 May 2015 1 Jun 2015
2 £60.00 Jul 2015 6 Dec 2015
3 £200.00 Dec 2015 12 Dec 2016
4 £150.00 Feb 2017 4 Oct 2017
5 £550.00 Jul 2018 6 outstanding
Ms E says that before  the loans were  provided  adequate checks  werent carried  out. Had 
these happened  she says Peachy would have realised she was reliant  on short  term 
borrowing and the loans were unaffordable.
Peachy says that before loans are provided  it undertakes adequate affordability  and credit 
worthiness checks.  It says it offered a small amount of credit to Ms E and its lending 
decisions were reasonable based  on the information it had been provided.  It says Ms E had 
gaps in her borrowing which  meant  she wasnt dependent  on the loans.  
Our adjudicator noted that there was a break  between loan four being repaid and loan five 
being provided. Therefore he said the loans  feel into two lending chains. He didnt think he 
had seen enough to say that loans one to three  in the first lending chain or loan five in the 
second lending  chain shouldnt have been provided.  However he thought  that Peachy 
shouldnt have provided loan four to Ms E. He recommended the interest and charges on 
loan four be refunded and that this loan be removed from Ms Es credit file.
 
Peachy didnt accept  our adjudicators view.  It said that Ms E took out a small number of 
loans and had reasonable breaks  in between the loans. It said the amounts borrowed 
werent generally increasing and remained small throughout. When the loan amounts did 
increase it says the repayments were over a number of months  meaning  the repayment  
amounts were small compared  to Ms Es income.  
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Peachy needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms E could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
Ref: DRN47878152the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Peachy should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Peachy was required to establish 
whether Ms E could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Es complaint.
Ms E took out five loans  with Peachy. There was a gap of over eight months between when 
loan four was repaid and loan five provided.  Given this I agree with our adjudicator that the 
loans should be split into two lending chains; the first containing loans  one to four, and the 
second containing loan five.
Peachy has noted  gaps  in the borrowing throughout the relationship  however I only find that 
the gap between loans four and five is significant. In regard to any other gaps I dont think  it 
would have been reasonable for Peachy  to conclude these were any indication that Ms Es 
finances had moved  on from whatever situation  had required her previous loans.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that he had enough evidence  to say that loans one to three and 
loan five shouldnt  have been provided. Based on the information  I have seen,  and 
considering loan five as the first loan of a new lending chain, I agree with this.
However by the time Ms E applied for her fourth loan she had been borrowing from Peachy 
for an extended period of time having  had loans  active  for around 18 months.  She had also 
extended the third loan on two occasions suggesting  she may be struggling to manage  her 
Ref: DRN47878153money. The amounts  Ms E was borrowing werent  decreasing and I think her pattern of 
borrowing by loan four showed that lending to her wasnt  sustainably affordable. Therefore I 
uphold this complaint in regard to loan four.
Ms E still has a loan outstanding with Peachy and given her situation  I would expect Peachy 
to treat her positively  and sympathetically  in regard to working out a repayment plan for this 
loan.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loan four. CASH ON GO 
LIMITED (trading as Peachy) should:
refund  Ms E the total interest, fees and charges she paid on loan four along  with 8% 
simple interest* calculated  from the date Ms E originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled; and
the number  of loans taken by loan four means  any information recorded about  it is 
adverse. So all entries about  loan four should  be removed from Ms Es credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Peachy to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Ms E a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4787815