K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Affinity Select Insurance Services Limited mis-sold him life and critical 
illness cover  when he was looking for income  protection. 
background
In April 2018, Mr B was looking for income protection as he didnt receive sickness  benefits  
through work. He contacted Affinity to find out what options were available to him. Affinity  
had two options  an income protection policy or critical  illness cover.  After  obtaining  some  
basic information about Mr Bs health and circumstances he was put through to an adviser to 
obtain some  quotes.  
The adviser first quoted  for income  protection. This was based on day one cover,  meaning  
the policy would pay out after a week if Mr B was off sick. The quote was to provide £1,500 
of benefit per month for up to two years and more  than one claim could be made.  This cost 
£52.49 per month. Mr B asked if there were cheaper  options and so the adviser moved  to 
critical illness cover. 
After finding out more  information about  Mr B, that he did sport,  and taking account of his 
occupation, the adviser included fracture  cover  within the critical illness  quote.  The policy 
also included life cover.  He initially  quoted for £30,000 of cover which cost over £20 a month.  
Mr B wanted  to look at cheaper options still and so the adviser reduced the benefit  available. 
They agreed on £20,000 of cover at £17.11  a month. The term of the policy was 33 years.
Following the recommendation Mr B was sent policy information and a demands and needs 
letter explaining  Affinitys  recommendation. 
In March 2019, Mr B spent 12 nights in hospital  with a rare kidney condition. He attempted  to 
claim under his critical illness cover. But the policy provider  Aviva  declined  the claim as it 
wasnt one of the specified critical illnesses. Mr B complained to Aviva  as he said he thought  
it was an income protection policy and so Aviva  refunded all of the premiums paid. It also 
referred Mr B to Affinity  to complain  about the sale of the policy.  
Affinity didnt  uphold  the complaint as it was satisfied its recommendation for cover  was 
suitable. So Mr B asked us to look into the matter. Our investigator was also satisfied the 
recommendation was suitable. She found  Affinity had offered income protection but Mr B 
hadnt wanted to go ahead because  of the cost,  so it had looked at alternative options  and 
it was clear from the call that Mr B was interested in the fracture cover that was included  as 
this was the thing he thought it most likely  he would claim for. 
Mr B didnt accept the outcome and asked  for the matter to be referred for a decision. He 
maintains that it was income protection he required and he has since  been  able to find cover  
at half the cost Affinity quoted him. He also says he felt pressured  to accept the policy  
offered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
Ref: DRN46326262I accept that Mr B was looking for some form of income protection when discussing his 
protection needs with Affinity. But its clear from the discussion he had with them that he 
wasnt willing to pay the monthly premium  for the cover quoted. As that appeared to be the 
cheapest available to it to quote, I dont think it was wrong  for Affinity  to explore other  options  
with Mr B. That he has been able to find a cheaper  quote since doesnt mean Affinity  did 
anything wrong  and it was always open to him to shop around for different quotes.
Im satisfied Affinity clearly explained  the difference between an income protection  policy  and 
one that provides critical illness. Im satisfied Mr B indicated his understanding  the policy  
would pay out on death and on diagnosis of a specified critical illness   different to what  an 
income protection policy would do. Affinity also explored the option  of adding fracture cover 
due to Mr Bs occupation and that he participated in combat sports. Mr B not only thought 
this was a good idea,  but said he thought this was the most likely cause he would claim for. 
Affinity initially provided a quote for £30,000 of cover, but Mr B didnt want to pay the monthly 
premium. So it looked at cheaper  options by bringing the level of cover  down.  Mr B agreed to 
£20,000 of cover for £17.11 a month.  Its clear  Mr B was driven by the cost in making his 
decision.
Having listened  to the call when the policy was sold, Im satisfied Mr B wasnt pressured  into 
accepting it. How the policy worked  was explained  several times  and he was asked if he was 
happy to go ahead. It was open  to Mr B to decline the quote had he wanted  to do so. 
I accept the policy recommended  wasnt  an income  protection policy.  But as a person with 
no apparent dependants  or sick pay, critical illness cover was a suitable option  to provide 
some form of sickness protection.  Both the adviser and the follow up documentation  made  it 
clear this was on diagnosis of a specified critical illness. It is unfortunate the illness Mr B was 
diagnosed with wasnt one of the specified  illnesses  but Im not persuaded  that makes  the 
recommendation unsuitable. 
I do have some concerns  about the inclusion of life cover for Mr B. He was renting, so he 
had no mortgage,  and Im not aware he had any dependants.   I therefore question  whether 
he had any need  for life cover at all and whether a policy  that only provided cover for critical 
illness and fracture  cover would have been  more suitable. However, any remedy for that 
would be a refund of the part of the premium that went towards life cover. As Aviva has 
already refunded Mr Bs premiums this matter falls away.  
Overall, Im satisfied Mr B was offered  income protection but he declined that option. The 
critical illness cover was clearly explained  and under  what circumstances it would pay out. 
Mr B agreed to go ahead  with cover that met his cost requirements. Im satisfied the 
recommendation was suitable and that he had a clear choice whether or not to go ahead. It 
follows that I dont  make any award  against Affinity.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4632626