K820x#14Complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont refund a number  of online card payments 
that she says she neither  made herself  nor authorised anyone else to make.  
Background
In October  2017 a number of online card payments were made  from Mrs Ms account with 
Barclays to two betting firms. Individual payments ranged from £5 to £20, and £150  was paid 
in total. 
Mrs M says she didnt  make the payments herself and hadnt authorised anyone else to 
make them either. She pointed out that she had been abroad for at least  some of the time 
the payments  were  being made, and that she had her debit card with her. While she had 
allowed her card to be used for payments on her sons online gaming account, she hadnt 
given anyone wider  permission to use her card or bank account.   
Barclays said that the card details  were used to make the payments, and its and the 
gambling firms records  show that Mrs Ms IP address was used for the payments  
indicating they were probably  made  from her home address by someone known to her. It 
said she hadnt properly  protected  her card details.  
Mrs M wasnt happy with Barclays response  to her concerns and referred the matter  to this 
service, where one of our investigators considered it. I summarise  his findings below:
One of the betting accounts had been opened  at the end of September 2017;  it wasnt  
in Mrs Ms name and the email address and mobile  phone  didnt  appear  to be Mrs Ms 
either. 
The name on the account is someone  known to Mrs M, although she didnt explain the 
relationship. The investigator assumed it was a family  member.  
Another account was opened with the same betting firm a few months later,  using some  
of the same details. It appeared  to the investigator that the same person had opened 
both accounts. 
Our investigator  concluded that it wasnt Mrs M who had opened  either account with the 
first betting firm.
As far as the second  betting  firm is concerned, in some cases  payments to it were  
matched by payments to Mrs Ms bank  account, apparently  from her son, less than a 
minute later.    
There was also a payment from that firm  indicating winnings being  paid. 
There were other transfers  into Mrs Ms account, and it was therefore not clear whether  
shed suffered a loss at all. 
The investigator concluded that Mrs M had given her card details to someone  else and so it 
wouldnt be fair to require Barclays to refund them. The fact that there appeared to have 
been an effort to cover the payments  by transfers into Mrs Ms account made it difficult to 
Ref: DRN43837972know if there had been a loss. In all the circumstances  it wouldnt be fair to require the bank 
to refund the disputed payments. 
Mrs M didnt  accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review 
them.       
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive come to 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did and for some   but not all  of the 
same reasons. 
Mrs M has explained  and I accept  that she had an arrangement  with her son by which 
her card was used for payments to gaming sites. He would reimburse her, although  its not 
clear whether he would  make the card payments  with her permission or she would make 
payments when asked.  Either  way, that arrangement seems to have worked.  But I think its 
worth noting  that such an arrangement  however it was set up  wouldnt have required the 
actual card to be present.  Only the card details would have been  needed,  and the same 
would have applied  to the online payments to the betting firms.  
I agree  with the investigators conclusion that Mrs M probably didnt open the accounts with 
the betting firms herself. I think its likely they were opened by a family member who had 
access to Mrs Ms card details. I dont think it necessarily follows however that the person 
who opened those  accounts had Mrs Ms permission to use her card details; as Ive said, 
they wouldnt have  needed the card itself, and the card details could have been accessible 
to others  in the household. 
I do note however that at least some of the payments were covered by matching transfers 
into Mrs Ms bank  account. Its possible that all of them were  or that other  arrangements  
were made with Mrs M. And it appears too that the person who was responsible for the 
payments made little effort  to disguise the fact that theyd been using Mrs Ms card, or that 
theyd opened  the betting accounts. 
Im not persuaded that the person who made  the payments did in fact have Mrs Ms 
permission to use her card. But it does appear  to me that Mrs M knows  who it was, and that 
they made some efforts at least to reimburse  her at the time. Im afraid  Mrs M hasnt really 
provided as much information about  this as she might have done. And, as the investigator 
noted, its not clear  what loss shes suffered  overall  here. I agree with him that, taking  all of 
this into consideration,  it wouldnt be fair to require Barclays to reimburse  Mrs M. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK Plc to do anything  further  to 
resolve Mrs Ms complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2019.
Ref: DRN43837973Michael Ingram
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4383797