K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs W, who are represented  by a claims management company (CMC)  complain 
that Diamond Resorts Financial Services Limited (DRFS) rejected their claim under s 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect of a points-based  timeshare membership.
 
Background
In November 2001 Mr and Mrs W bought a points-based  timeshare membership from a 
company I will call T. This was funded, in part, with a point of sale loan provided  by DRFS.
In June 2018 the CMC made  a claim under s 75 which was rejected by DRFS. The CMC  
said that Mr and Mrs W were subjected to undue pressure and the product was 
misrepresented. It asked for the return of their money. It also appeared to ask that a refund 
of payments made  to an intermediary which has claimed to be able to extricate  Mr and Mrs 
W from their agreement and obtain  a refund.
DRFS rejected the claim and the subsequent complaint and so the matter was brought  to 
this service where it was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. The CMC asked  that the matter be reviewed by an ombudsman and provided a 
statement from Mr and Mrs W along with a reiteration of the points it had made previously. 
It added that the representations made by T had been fraudulent which  brought  the claim 
within s32 of the Limitation  Act.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  The business  has raised the issue of whether  we can 
consider this complaint under the rules  which apply to this service. I will address that first. 
Can we consider the complaint under DISP 2.8.2(2)?
Our rules say that we cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers  it to us more  than:
(a)six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint
unless:
the failure to comply  with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
When assessing and declining a claim under the Consumer Credit  Act, a business is 
exercising its rights  and duties under a regulated credit agreement. A consumer may then 
complain if they feel that a business  has failed to fulfil its obligations  under this credit 
agreement, because they havent received satisfactory compensation for their claim.
So, in this case, it follows that the event  complained  of is DRFSs decision in August 2018 to 
decline the claim they made regarding the timeshare, rather than the sale itself. They then 
complained in September 2018,  which is well within the six-year time limit specified in the rules.
Ref: DRN43165862Because of this, I think we can look at this complaint, as it has been brought  within the time 
limits set under DISP  2.8.2(2). So, I will now go on to consider the complaint, which  is that 
DRFS would  not look into Mr and Mrs Ws claim under the Limitation  Act. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory  rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
Under s.75, DRFS is jointly and severally  liable with the supplier  of the goods or services 
for any breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier. This means, a consumer 
has a like claim against DRFS  just as they would  have  against the supplier. So, if Mr and 
Mrs Ws claim against the supplier of the timeshare has likely expired under the Limitation 
Act, then that is something DRFS could take into account when it considers their claims 
against it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits which apply to different types of claims. Mr and 
Mrs W have said the timeshare they bought was misrepresented  to them.
Under the Limitation Act, they would have  six years from the date upon which they suffered a 
loss as a result of the misrepresentation to bring  their claim. 
As DRFS  steps into the shoes  of the supplier for the purposes of the s.75 claim, to work  
out when the clock  starts running under the Limitation Act, we need to work out when it 
would start if the claim had been  brought directly against the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person  bringing  the claim has experienced 
damage and or loss as a result  of the misrepresentation.  In this case, given the nature of the 
complaint, I think damage occurred when  Mr and Mrs W suffered a financial loss as a result 
of purchasing the timeshare. Ill explain  why below.
 
They say that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation, they paid to enter an 
agreement which has caused  them  to suffer a loss. They  say that but for the 
misrepresentation, they wouldnt have  entered into the contract at all and wouldnt have 
paid any money to the supplier.
So, I think the point of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which 
was in November  2001. Thats the moment when  they accepted any potential  benefit  under 
the contract, and it was also the moment they accepted the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, Mr and 
Mrs W needed to raise  their claim no later than November  2007. As I understand it, they 
raised their claim in June  2018, which is nearly 11 years after the loss occurred.
Mr and Mrs W may say that they werent  aware they could raise concerns about  the 
misrepresentation until much later. But the time limits set out for misrepresentation claims 
such as this, start to run from the date of loss, which may fall earlier  than the date they 
became aware  that something might have gone wrong.  
Ref: DRN43165863Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into 
this complaint. Under s.140A,  the courts may make an order  under section 140B in 
connection with a credit agreement  if it determines  that the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors. 
Only a court has the power  to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is 
unfair, but it is relevant law we need  to take into consideration. 
The Limitation Act still applies for these types  of claims. For a s.140A claim, Mr and Mrs W 
would have six years  from the date the related finance agreement ended. From the 
information I have,  the finance agreement ended in December 2002  so a s.140A claim 
needed to be raised no later than December  2008.  As I understand it, they raised their claim 
in June 2018, which is nearly 10 years  after the finance agreement ended.
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide  whether or not any claim Mr and Mrs W may have 
against the supplier  or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
The CMC has raised  the issue of s. 32 of the Limitation Act. Typically, s.32 applies to 
fraudulent misrepresentation but it does  extend  to concealment.  In cases  where that has 
been alleged,  it can extend the time the consumer has to raise a claim. However,  Mr and 
Mrs W have raised  a number of issues with the product in their claim/complaint and those 
issues could have been discoverable earlier. As such  I consider they should have 
discovered or ought to have been able to discover that something had gone wrong and 
as that was in excess of 6 years before claim, I do not accept that s.32 extends  time. 
However, given the above, it seems to me that this misrepresentation claim against  the 
supplier and the like claim  against DRFS more than likely exceeded the relevant  time limits 
set out in the Limitation  Act. So, it would not be unreasonable for DRFS to take this into 
account when  considering  the s.75 claim against  it. 
So, given that Mr and Mrs Ws claim now is more than likely time barred under the 
Limitation Act, I think DRFSs  decision not to look into the claim was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2021.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4316586