K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about how Royal  and Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc handled and settled  a 
claim he made under his home insurance  policy for storm  damage.
background
Mr O holds a buildings and contents  insurance  policy, which is underwritten by RSA. This 
policy includes home emergency cover. This service  is provided by an organisation that Ill 
refer to as C in this decision.
On 8 September 2018 Mr O contacted RSA to explain  that water  was coming into his 
property through  his bathroom ceiling. He said it had been raining very heavily and he 
thought this damage had been  caused  by a storm. RSA told him would arrange  for C to 
attend his property to undertake emergency  repairs.  And he received  a text message from 
RSA which  said weve  appointed an approved supplier wholl  contact you to arrange a 
repair/replacement.
After RSA spoke with Mr O it instructed a buildings inspector, which  Ill refer to as B, to 
undertake an inspection of the damage. On inspecting Mr Os property B said it didnt think 
the damage was a direct result of a one off storm. Instead it thought  it had been caused  by a 
breakdown and deterioration  in the flat felt roof and it felt the recent  weather conditions  had 
merely highlighted the pre-existing defects with the roof.
RSA told Mr O wear and tear wasnt covered by his policy and it declined his claim on this 
basis. But Mr O didnt agree with this decision and complained to RSA.  He said B hadnt 
properly inspected his roof  it only took photographs using a camera  attached to a pole. But 
RSA said the photographs it had seen  were clear and showed  extensive damage consistent 
with wear and tear. So it didnt think it had made an error in declining  Mr Os claim. It did, 
however, offer him the opportunity of providing evidence to demonstrate  that the water 
ingress was coming  from another source.
Mr O felt RSAs  decision  to decline his claim was unfair. He said the text message hed 
received indicated that his claim had been  approved. But RSA told him that the text 
message hed received was automated. It thought  it may have sent this message in relation  
to Cs visit. But it agreed that incorrect wording  was used  on the text message and it 
apologised if that had given Mr O the impression  it had approved  his claim. It said this wasnt 
the case because, at that time, an inspection hadnt  taken place. 
Mr O was unhappy RSA hadnt arranged a repair of his roof under his home emergency 
repair cover.  RSA agreed it hadnt appointed C on 8 September  2018  as it said it would.  It 
accepted this was an error. But it said it wasnt aware C hadnt  attended  Mr Os property until 
1 November 2018 when he contacted it to complain. At this point  RSA instructed C to attend 
Mr Os property to undertake emergency  repairs  because he said the leak was still ongoing. 
To recognise  the distress and inconvenience  these errors caused RSA paid Mr O £50 
compensation. But Mr O didnt wasnt happy with how RSA proposed to resolve his 
complaint so he referred it to our service.  
Our investigator looked into what happened but they didnt uphold  this complaint. They 
thought RSA had acted  fairly in declining to cover Mr Os claim for damage. And they 
Ref: DRN42580312thought the compensation  it had already  paid him for the errors  it had identified  was fair and 
reasonable. But Mr O disagreed  and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr O feels  very strongly that his claim should be paid. As a longstanding  customer  
I recognise that he feels let down  by RSA. But, while I have sympathy with Mr O, my role is 
to assess whether I think RSA made a mistake, or treated Mr O unfairly, such that it needs  to 
now put things  right.   
Mr O would like RSA to cover  the damage  to his roof because he feels  it was caused by 
adverse weather. His policy  with RSA covers damage caused by a storm. But for a claim to 
be accepted under this peril Mr O must show that any damage  was the direct result of a 
single, weather event.  
When considering  a claim for damage caused by a storm I need to consider  three  main  
questions:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage  consistent with what we would  normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Our three stage approach  to considering  storm claims  means we can only fairly  say a claim 
should be upheld  under the storm peril if we can answer 'yes' to all three questions.
In weighing  up the first question  Ive looked to see if Mr Os policy defines storm. RSAs  
terms and conditions give a detailed explanation  of what weather it will consider to be a 
storm. It says a storm will involve  very strong winds powerful enough  to cause structural  
damage to homes  within its path.  Its usually accompanied  by torrential rainfall, hail or heavy 
snow. Damage caused by normal  weather conditions commonly experienced in the UK is 
often the result of wear  and tear or lack of maintenance and isnt covered.
Theres no wind speed specified under Mr Os policy but this service  generally considers 
wind speeds of 47 mph or above  to be consistent  with a storm. 
Having reviewed weather  records  for Mr O locality at around the time the damage occurred I 
cant see any wind speeds  recorded  of 47mph or above. While  Ive taken into account  what  
Mr O told our service  about the weather at around  the time the damage occurred the highest 
wind speeds Ive seen recorded  were  46 mph. This was on 11 September 2018  after the 
date Mr O said water was leaking into his home.  
Overall, there isnt enough evidence to satisfy me there was weather at the time the damage 
occurred which meets RSAs definition of a storm. And, as Im not persuaded that a storm 
occurred around  the time of the damage, I dont need to go on to address  questions two or 
three as outlined above. 
Ive mentioned in the background to this complaint that Mr Os policy excludes damage that 
happens gradually or is caused by wear  and tear. This is in common with most home 
Ref: DRN42580313insurance policies  because insurance is intended  to cover the unforeseen  and something 
wearing out or requiring  maintenance isnt unforeseen. 
If an insurer wishes to decline a claim on the basis of wear  and tear it has to show that this is 
how the damage happened. In this case  RSA relies on Bs opinion that the damage was 
caused gradually. So, Ive carefully studied  the information B provided RSA.
I dont think RSA acted  unfairly in relying  on Bs expertise in assessing Mr O claim for 
damage. B is a recognised organisation that regularly assesses property damage on behalf 
of insurers. And our service  thinks  its right for an insurer to instruct  companies with 
expertise to inspect  a customers property to assist it in determining  the cause of damage. 
Here, B said the flat felt roof appeared to be dipping and puddling in the middle. It also noted  
extensive cracking in the felt and bitumen around  the vent pipe. B stated the felt was 
suffering fatigue  cracks and appeared to have reached the end of its serviceable life. So, it 
thought the damage it had observed  had happened gradually over a period of time
I think the photographs it took of Mr Os roof, in particular, clearly show extensive cracks. I 
appreciate that Mr O feels this damage was caused  by a storm.  But the photographs 
demonstrate the roof is in a poor condition and had been deteriorating over a period of time. 
Our service wouldnt consider the damage  depicted to be consistent with a single storm 
event. Wed expect  to see a singular  tear or rip as opposed to multiple  cracks  where  the felt 
has been eroded. Im persuaded that this erosion took place gradually. So, I think  RSA had 
enough evidence  to determine that the cause  of damage here was wear and tear.
After RSA declined  Mr Os claim  it gave him the opportunity of providing  evidence to show 
that the water ingress wasnt due to wear  and tear of the roof. But he hasnt provided any 
evidence that discredits  Bs opinion or findings. He told our service that the builder he 
instructed to repair his roof wasnt able to identify the cause of the water  ingress.  So, I cant 
fairly find RSA made an error in concluding  Mr Os roof damage was due to wear and tear.
I know Mr O will disagree with me but I think its, most likely, that the adverse weather he 
experienced in September 2018 highlighted the poor condition  of, and pre-existing issues  
with, the roof. Im satisfied  the damage  was caused by wear  and tear, which happened over 
a period of time. Im not persuaded it was caused by a one-off storm event.
Ill turn now to the complaint points  Mr O raised  about the service  he received from RSA.  He 
complains it didnt instruct C to attend his property  on 8 September  2018, when it said it 
would. Hes also unhappy with the work C undertook  when it attended and he complains 
about the wording  of the text message he received from RSA.
In relation to RSAs  failure to instruct C to attend  Mr Os home on 8 September  2018 it 
accepts it made an error here  although it wasnt aware of that until around two months  
later. It also accepts its wording on the text message Mr O received could have been clearer.  
I can understand why Mr O would be unhappy  that C werent instructed to attend his address 
on 8 September  2018. He said his builder  told him if his roof had been  repaired  sooner the 
damage wouldnt have  been as extensive. But I havent seen enough evidence to satisfy  me 
that any delays  in C attending  Mr Os property exacerbated the damage  he suffered. And I 
also have to take into account  that Mr O didnt contact RSA to make it aware C hadnt visited  
his property until around two months after it had been appointed.
Ref: DRN42580314Turning to Mr Os concerns with the temporary repairs C made to his property he said it filled 
cracks with silicone, which didnt resolve  the leak as further water got in. I know that Mr O 
feels Cs repairs didnt go far enough  but, under the terms of his home  emergency  cover 
RSA only pays for temporary  repairs to resolve emergency situations. These repairs  are 
defined as repairs  necessary to make the roofwatertight and prevent further damage. So, 
they arent as extensive as a complete repair. 
While Mr O said the work didnt make his property  watertight or prevent further damage I 
havent seen enough evidence to show that. And I also havent seen enough to show  that C 
should have done more  under the emergency home cover part of Mr Os insurance  policy.
In relation to the incorrect wording used on the text message Mr O received, RSA accepted  
it could have been cleared. And, as I mentioned  in the background to this complaint, it 
apologised if its text message had given Mr O the impression it had approved his claim.
Having considered the wording of the text I can see why Mr O was caused confusion. He 
understood a repair or replacement would be arranged. But RSA couldnt have approved his 
claim because, at that time, an inspection hadnt taken place. Mr O wouldnt have 
necessarily known the steps involved  in an insurers claim approval process. So, I can 
understand why he feels  RSA didnt properly manage his expectations.
 
To recognise  the distress and inconvenience  caused by RSAs  errors it paid Mr O £50 
compensation. Its clear  that he doesnt think this adequately reflects  his inconvenience and 
experience. But, Im afraid I have to tell him that I agree with our investigators view that £50 
is a fair amount  of compensation for the trouble and upset he suffered. I havent  seen  
enough evidence  to persuade me that a higher award is warranted  here.  And, overall, I think 
the amount already paid is in line with our approach in similar scenarios. So I wont  be 
ordering RSA to pay any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4258031