K822xcomplaint
G, a limited company,  complains that HSBC  UK Bank Plc told it that it was going  to be 
closing its account  but would not say what information was needed to prevent this.
background 
HSBC wrote to G to say it was carrying out a safeguard  exercise. It said that this was to 
ensure that the information it held about G was correct and to help prevent fraud and 
financial crime. G provided  information  but was told this was incomplete and that the account  
would be closed. G complained as it said it had tried to comply  but that HSBC  was being 
unhelpful.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld. She said that:
-The director of G had attempted  to complete the information online but this had 
been rejected.  HSBC  had only said that it did not match  information held about  G 
at Companies House.
-During a call with HSBC, G was told that the banners it could  see on online  
banking when it logged  in meant  that the review  was still underway: not that G 
needed to input more information.
-The letters from HSBC did not specify what  was required and she thought  that 
they should have done.
-G had said that a particular member  of staff was unhelpful. 
-HSBC should  apologise to G, give it complete details of what  was required and 
allow it time to do so without closing the account.
HSBC did not agree. It said that the account was since closed on 17 May 2019 in line with 
the notice period it had given. G did not provide  the information it needed by the deadline.  
And it would not be revisiting its decision to close the account. HSBC  did not agree that the 
requests for information were so unclear  that G was not aware what was required. It had not 
been given details of the time and date of the call that was said to be unhelpful so couldnt 
look into this. 
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 July 2019. I set out below the key 
points.
HSBC had provided its case file which includes two online  forms completed  by G as part of 
the safeguard  review  with the first rejected on 18 March 2019 and the second on 4 April 
2019. It has also provided a recording of a telephone call with G on 21 March  2019 after it 
first complained.
During that call the director of G was told that the only thing that was wrong with the 
information was the registered  address for G. And the director  said that she had spoken  with 
Gs accountant to confirm this and had amended the details. As our investigator  has said the 
member of staff from HSBC went on to say that the message banner on online banking  
meant that things were  still being investigated  and that the review had not finished.
I looked at the submitted forms and the error messages included  on the forms from HSBC. 
Some information about G had been requested  including its registered address, principal 
Ref: DRN41295242business address  and correspondence address. The first form G completed gave a 
registered address  different to that recorded at Companies House. G also highlighted a tick 
box to say that the principal business address was the same as this. An error message from 
HSBC stated that the registered address did not match that at Companies House and listed  
what that address  was. 
On the second  form the registered  address had been changed  to match  that at Companies  
House. And the tick box then was highlighted to say that the principal business address 
was not the same as this and gave  a different address. That error message on the form 
remained the same as before and said that the registered address did not match.
HSBC has shown that it sent G a letter on 4 April 2019 stating that it still needed further 
clarification. And it sent a text message  on 8 April 2019 saying that G needed to log onto 
online banking and complete the review. That was the day when the director  of G first 
contacted this service  saying that HSBC had been  unhelpful and that she had gone  back  to 
members of its staff a number of times  to try and resolve this.
my assessment
I appreciated what G has said about the small size of its operation and the issues  in 
completing the information. But Im afraid  I didnt  think  it was unreasonable  to think that it 
could have given  correct information  about  the different  relevant addresses   and especially 
for its registered address which is important for any party wanting to contact it. This seemed 
to be straightforward information.  And I thought the purpose of HSBCs review was to make  
sure that it had correct  information  not necessarily to prompt  the answers from G. 
I knew G said that it did not get HSBCs  initial letters of 27 November 2018 and 18 
December 2018  about the review. But it started  completing the information online on 28 
January 2019  and in my view still then had a reasonable  period of time to do this.
I understood that the issue with the address was that the principal business address given 
by G on the second  form still did not match the trading  address  for G at Companies House. 
That address unlike the registered address is not publically  available information. G had 
instead given  its correspondence address as the principal  business address.
Where I thought HSBC  has hindered rather than helped G is in saying in the error message 
that only the registered address was incorrect. As I said above the registered address has a 
specific purpose and meaning and does  not encompass any other addresses.  And HSBC 
repeated that same  information about the problem being the registered address during the 
telephone call. This understandably was confusing to the director  who had correctly changed 
this registered  address.  G thought  this was all completed and I thought would likely only 
have been told that the registered address did not match when it called HSBC again   on the 
basis that was the error message. Had any member of staff looked at this in detail it seems 
most likely to me the specific problems with the information could have been identified  and 
easily corrected.
I needed to decide how fairly to resolve this complaint especially now that Gs account has 
been closed. Im afraid that HSBC gave  G the required period  of notice to close the account  
under the terms  and conditions. It has said it is not prepared to reconsider this  even in the 
knowledge of whats happened. It is entitled  to make  a commercial decision whether or not 
to operate an account. So its not a realistic option for me to say it should open an account 
for G again.  However,  I can require HSBC to compensate G for the inconvenience I thought 
Ref: DRN41295243it was responsible for. This was caused by the unclear messages it gave to G about  the 
issues with the information and the related need for G to follow this up without success.  I 
balanced this against the nature  of that information  and the responsibility of G to provide it 
correctly. The account is now closed and G will need to make other arrangements. In my 
provisional view the compensation to reflect what happened here is fairly £200.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
G said it accepted  my decision.
HSBC pointed out to me that there were also discrepancies regarding the company 
ownership structure submitted by G. It asked me to consider whether this made a difference  
to my assessment. HSBC said that even if the address had been  clarified  then G would have 
failed to complete  all the requirements in time. This would not have changed the outcome of 
the review.
I have considered this carefully and understand HSBCs position. I set out above in my 
analysis what HSBC  said about the address and why I think  that this hindered G being able 
to complete the information. And also my review of the telephone call during which G was 
told that the only thing outstanding was the registered address. And so it seems to me that 
if there was a remaining issue with the ownership  structure this was not clearly brought  to 
Gs attention in that call. I accept that there  was an error  messages  about the company 
structure in the online  forms dated 4 April 2019. 
These points also do not alter what I said before  about G being responsible for its own 
information. However, the inconvenience comes from the poor communication and unclear 
messages which  as I said in my provisional decision I balanced against the need for G to 
give correct information.  What HSBC has now said does not alter my overall view about that. 
And as I said before  it was entitled  to give G notice to close  the account.
In conclusion I remain of the view that the compensation of £200  remains the appropriate 
resolution to this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and to require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay G 
£200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4129524