K820x#14complaint
Miss F complained about Paratus AMC Limited, trading as Foundation  Home  Loans. She 
has a mortgage  with Paratus and complained about:
-a phone call in which she said Paratus adviser  was condescending; and 
-the fact that Paratus  wouldnt let her remove her ex-partner  from the mortgage.
background
Miss F and her then husband took out a joint mortgage with Paratus in October  2005.  
Unfortunately, they divorced. In March  2011,  a Consent order set out that Miss Fs ex-
husband was to transfer his share  of the property to Miss F, 28 days after the arrears had 
been cleared.  
Miss F had financial difficulties and the mortgage  was in arrears. She agreed a payment 
arrangement with Paratus. This was that shed pay £230 in July, August and September  
2017 and £224.14 in October 2017.  But Paratus  didnt  receive  the October payment. So the 
payment arrangement was broken and ended.  
Paratus wrote on 2 November, saying that £224.14  was due. The letter explained that if this 
wasnt paid within the next seven days, the account would be passed  back  to the account  
manager. The letter  also said that £207.51 was due on 28 November, and that there  would 
also be a monthly arrears fee. 
Miss F and her ex-husbands mortgage was linked to the Bank of England  base rate. 
Paratus wrote on 9 November to say that there was an interest rate increase which would 
start from the 1 December. The new payment would be £229.95.
In early 2018, Paratus  rang Miss F to talk to her about Februarys payment, which  the 
adviser said was outstanding.  Miss F didnt agree, and said shed paid on 6 February. The 
adviser explained that this was for Januarys  payment, but Miss F didnt agree. They  also 
disagreed about  whether there was a payment arrangement in place  Miss F said there 
was, and the adviser said there wasnt because it had been broken in November 2017.  And 
Miss F also said she hadnt been  told that the monthly mortgage  payment due had 
increased. Paratus adviser said that it had written in November. Miss F was annoyed  and 
said Paratus hadnt sent her any letter  about this. The adviser suggested  she should speak 
to the post office and Miss F ended the call. 
Miss F complained. She said the adviser had been abrupt and unhelpful. She said she 
hadnt known  about the interest rate increase and found the adviser condescending when 
hed said she should talk to the post office. She also complained that she wasnt able to 
remove her ex-husbands  name from the mortgage.
Paratuss reply said that it apologised if Miss F felt its service  wasnt  acceptable. But in 
relation to taking  Miss Fs ex-husband off the mortgage, Paratus said it no longer offered 
transfer of equity applications. It explained  that any change to a mortgage account 
depended on policies  at the time.
Miss F wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service.
Ref: DRN46147652The investigator didnt  uphold Miss Fs complaint.  Looking first at the phone  call, she 
explained that letters about  missing  payments,  and interest rate changes, are produced  
automatically by lenders.  Lenders would only know of any problem if the letters had been 
returned as undeliverable.  The investigator  checked that the letters had been correctly 
addressed. She said that it was then down  to the postal service, and there was no evidence  
of any errors  by Paratus  in sending the letters.
The investigator also explained that Miss F hadnt  paid the October 2017 payment. So that 
had ended the payment arrangement which Miss F said she thought was still in place. 
The investigator also looked at Miss Fs complaint about wanting her ex-husband off the 
mortgage. Miss F hadnt  made an application to do this, but there were arrears on the 
account. Miss F had told the investigator shed explored options  but her financial 
circumstances meant  she couldnt  make  changes at the moment. The investigator  passed 
on details of a debt charity. 
Miss F wasnt  satisfied. She said she didnt believe she had been, or was being, treated 
fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Phone call with Paratus
Ive listened to the call recording. Its clear that this was a difficult call. Miss F didnt agree 
that payments  were  overdue;  that the payment arrangement had ended because of the 
missing October 2017 payment; or that the monthly  payment had increased. She told the 
adviser she hadnt received Paratus letters. She said there had been a payment  
arrangement in place before her mortgage  had been  bought  by Paratus, so that wasnt  her 
problem.
Ive looked at the records to see what the situation  was at the time of the call. Miss Fs 
payments were in arrears, and the payment  arrangement  had ended  because she didnt 
make the October  2017 payment. There had also been no change to the lender, other than a 
change of name which didnt affect  the terms and conditions  of Miss Fs mortgage. It wasnt  
the name change  which  had ended  the payment arrangement, but the missing October 
payment. 
I recognise that Miss F became annoyed  with the adviser, and said she hadnt received  
either of the two November 2017  letters. But they were  correctly  addressed.  So I dont find 
that Paratus was at fault for this.
So I find that the information the adviser gave Miss F was accurate. I also consider that the 
advisers tone and manner towards Miss F was fair and reasonable.
Removing Miss Fs ex-husband from the mortgage   transfer of equity
Miss F hasnt been able to make a formal application to Paratus to get her ex-husband taken  
off the mortgage.  Thats  because the mortgage  is in arrears. Lenders wont normally  
consider an application to remove  one person  when a mortgage is in arrears. Thats 
Ref: DRN46147653because if the mortgage isnt being paid in full, its even  less likely it can be kept up to date 
without one of the parties who originally signed  up to the mortgage.
A full application to remove one person would involve full income and expenditure details, to 
check it was affordable by the one person remaining. Miss F has explained to us that shes 
in financial difficulties. So this part of the complaint is hypothetical at the moment, and I cant  
make specific findings  when Miss F isnt in a position to apply anyway. If this were to change  
and Ms F then made  a transfer of equity application, shed be able to make a complaint at 
that tine if she thought Paratus  hadnt  given it fair and reasonable consideration. 
 
Finally, since complaining to this service. Miss F has also complained about charges to the 
mortgage. Miss F will need to have  complained  to Paratus and given it a chance to reply 
before she can bring this complaint to us. So I cant comment on it in this decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4614765