K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows)  changed the terms of his 
pension without telling him so that future increases  in contributions  didnt benefit from a 
guaranteed annuity rate (GAR).
background
Mr D said he had a personal pension with the benefit of a GAR. He didnt know  that Scottish 
Widows had decided it wouldnt apply the GAR  to increases in contributions made  after 
1999. He said he wasnt told and had lost out by around £200 per year.  He said had he 
known he wouldve reviewed the scheme and taken financial  advice.  He said hed been  sent 
a cheque for £200 by way of compensation. He said when he made  contact in October  2018  
he wasnt told about the change and in fact was told the opposite  about the application  of the 
GAR. He wanted the GAR reinstated for contributions made after June 1999.
Scottish Widows  upheld  Mr Ds complaint and sent a payment of £200.  It said Mr D had a 
unit linked  with profits personal pension which was started in 1988. Mr D made contact  in 
2018 and itd confirmed that the GAR applied for every £1,000 of fund value provided he 
claimed this at his normal retirement date but that wasnt correct. 
It accepted it had not been clear that the GAR didnt apply to increments made  after June 
1999. It said it received  information about  Mr Ds lifetime allowance  but failed to pass it on. 
Instead it just issued retirement quotes  but quoting an incorrect normal retirement date. 
Several calls followed where Mr D called to query  the figures because the GAR hadnt been  
applied to the full fund but Scottish Widows  wasnt able to explain why. Even  following a call 
back it couldnt explain why the GAR didnt apply to the full fund value. It then suggested he 
applied for an enhanced  life annuity but this would be in place of the GAR. Scottish Widows 
accepted that Mr D felt stonewalled by them.
Scottish Widows  apologised and said it hadnt  been  intentionally  obstructive it accepted  its 
customer service  was below standard. Eventually Scottish  Widows  issued a letter  confirming 
the GAR  didnt apply  to increases in contributions after June 1999. 
It said it sent a mass mailed letter to all relevant customers in June  1999.  Mr D had also 
been in contact in 2005 and the letter of reply confirmed that the GAR  didnt  apply to post 
June 1999 increments. As the policy had had two increments  post 1999  the GAR didnt 
apply to them.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said I needed to consider whether Scottish 
Widows had done anything wrong.  
I had been provided with a copy of the personal pension policy provisions from 1987 
which would have applied  when Mr D took out his policy in 1988. The provisions of clause 
8.8 states that 
the Society may alter all or any of these provisions  in respect of any increase in recurring 
premiums above the highest level of such premiums established prior to the effective date of 
the alteration and in respect of any single  premium on or after that date.
Ref: DRN46525102It was clear that Scottish  Widows  was entitled to alter the policy so that the GAR wouldnt 
apply to future increases in premiums above the existing level. 
Scottish Widows  have  indicated that the changes made in 1999 related to future  increases  in 
the level of contributions.  That change  is consistent  with the power  to alter the policy.  This 
would mean  that future contributions at the level in place  prior to the change would remain 
unaffected and continue  to be entitled  to the GAR.
The power to alter didnt  include an express requirement to notify  the policy holder of the 
change nor to prove any notice of change has been received by the policyholder. So the 
validity of that change didnt rest on notifying policyholders nor on them receiving any notice. 
However I think it was reasonable to issue a notice  as it did.
Scottish Widows  issued  a letter in 1999  and I have seen a pro forma copy  which  confirms 
the non application of the GAR to future  increments. It is common  for insurance  companies 
to issue such letters by way of a mass mailing  such that an individually addressed  copy 
doesnt appear on the file. In such a situation  we would seek  to check  the address held at 
the time was current and correct and to see a copy of the pro forma  letter and confirmation it 
was included in the mass  mail.  
Scottish Widows  have  confirmed that the address they held in April 1999  is the same  as Mr Ds 
current address and he had received and sent correspondence to it during that period. It 
confirmed a mass mailing was sent in 1999 to all policy holders at the address held on file for 
them at the time. So it seems reasonable to conclude that the letter  was sent. It is possible that 
the letter was lost in the post and never received by Mr D but that isnt the fault of Scottish 
Widows. So while Mr D may not have received the letter it doesnt  mean  it wasnt  sent.  
With respect to the letter sent in 2005  I have seen a copy  of this and Scottish Widows says it 
was correctly addressed.  It was sent in response to contact by Mr D and refers  to the 
changes to the application of the GAR to future contributions. I think  the evidence  that such 
a letter  was sent is much stronger. It is not possible to prove it was received  by Mr D and 
may have  been  lost in the post but that isnt the fault of Scottish Widows. Given also that it 
was sent in answer to contact from Mr D I might reasonably have expected  him to have 
chased a reply if he hadnt  received  it. That doesnt  mean Mr D is lying as he doesnt  recall 
receiving the letter  and he is clear he doesnt  have a copy. 
For the reason  given  even if neither letter was sent or received it wouldnt affect  the validity 
of the alteration  to the terms of the policy as such a notice while reasonable wasnt  required 
to implement the alteration. 
I have none the less considered what difference it wouldve made had Mr D not received the 
letters as he says. As the change didnt affect  his existing level of contributions  it would only 
have been of relevance should he decide to increase his contributions  to a higher level. 
Then the change would only apply  in respect of the amount  of the increase,  not the whole 
amount of his contributions.  
Mr D argues that failure to notify him meant he missed an opportunity to take financial advice 
and consider whether the policy was still suitable for him. But I dont agree. The change  in 
1999 did not affect the existing policy terms for his existing level of contributions,  so nothing 
changed at that time. 
Ref: DRN46525103Scottish Widows  has said that Mr D made  a transfer into the unit linked part of his policy in 
2007. That part of the policy didnt carry a GAR  so it wouldnt have been affected by Mr D 
not receiving the letters.
Mr D then decided to increase his contributions  from the current  level also in 2007. Scottish 
Widows says that the papers dealing with this wouldnt have mentioned the GAR as it didnt 
apply to the increase so he wouldnt have been misled.  So if Mr D hadnt received the letters  
and the change wasnt mentioned he shouldnt have believed the GAR applied.  But I thought 
there was a risk he might not have  realised the terms had changed.
However Mr D says he doesnt have any papers from that time as the increase was dealt 
with by his IFA who had now retired. As it was nearly 20 years  since the policy  started it 
wouldve been prudent to check  the terms for the new contributions. Given  that Mr Ds IFA 
was acting I wouldve  expected the IFA to check the terms upon  which  the increased 
contributions were received as he was advising Mr D about the increase. It was the advice of 
the IFA he would be relying on in making that increase. As there was an IFA in place it 
shouldnt have made a difference if he hadnt  received the letters in 1999  or 2005. Even if he 
hadnt had an IFA, Scottish Widows said the papers  for the new increase didnt include 
reference to the GAR so Mr D shouldnt have been misled by them.
So I think Scottish Widows was entitled  to make  the change that it did. It wasnt required to 
give notification to Mr D about the change but I think it was prudent to do so. Mr D had the 
benefit of financial  advice when he decided to increase his contributions so it shouldnt  
therefore have  mattered if Mr D didnt receive  either  of the letters confirming the change  and 
in any event the new papers wouldnt have referred to the GAR.
Mr D also refers to his contact with Scottish Widows  in 2018 when they told him the GAR 
applied to the whole of his fund. It is clear this statement was incorrect  as part of the policy  
was unit linked and part from increases  after the 1999 change.  Having considered the policy  
it is clear Mr D wasnt entitled  to have the GAR  applied to the whole of his fund. Making an 
incorrect statement such as this doesnt then entitle Mr D to benefits that the policy  didnt 
offer. In addition Mr D didnt act in reliance on that statement to his detriment so he didnt 
suffer any financial loss as a consequence  of the incorrect statement. So while  I think this is 
evidence of the poor service which Scottish Widows admits was provided it doesnt create a 
right to the application  of the GAR to the whole fund.
While I dont think Scottish Widows  has done anything  wrong  in relation to the change in terms 
of the GAR, it admits that its recent service fell below  that it would hope.  I have therefore  
considered whether an award for distress and inconvenience is appropriate.  Such awards are 
intended to reflect the impact on Mr D and not to punish Scottish Widows. Nor is such  an 
award intended to compensate for any financial loss. Mr D complains the existing offer of £200 
doesnt reflect his financial loss. But that isnt the purpose of this award. Had there been a 
financial loss I wouldve made a separate award  for it but I have  concluded that there wasnt  
as Scottish Widows  was entitled to change the application of the GAR for future  increases.
Having considered the impact on Mr D I think he was put to inconvenience  in chasing 
Scottish Widows  for answers,  long calls, dealing with information that didnt answer  his 
questions, and the failure to pick up the issues relating to the lifetime allowance. It is clear  it 
took some  time before Mr D was able to get correct  answers explaining why the annuity  
wasnt at the level he expected. He had to persevere so long that he felt he was being stone 
walled. I have considered the £200  sent by Scottish Widows.  Given  the level of the failures 
in service and the time taken to get to the correct position I think  the impact  on Mr D 
Ref: DRN46525104understandably left him feeling  stonewalled. Given that impact  I think  an award  of £500 
would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I noted also that Scottish Widow agreed  to extend the period for acceptance of GAR terms 
applicable to part of the policy while this complaint  was concluded.
I proposed to uphold  this complaint in part and direct that Scottish  Widows  Limited  should  
pay Mr D £500 in respect of distress  and inconvenience. (For the avoidance of doubt if the 
cheque for £200  already sent by Scottish  Widows  has been  cashed D Scottish Widows 
Limited should pay a further £300)
Scottish Widows  asked  why the award  for distress and inconvenience had been increased  to 
£500. It said Mr D first complained in early February 2019 and its final response was sent in 
early May 2019. Mr Ds retirement date wasnt until the end of February and itd allowed him 
to keep the GAR for almost a year beyond his retirement date. It thought  that an award  of 
£500 seemed  generous. It said it had credited Mr d with £200 on 4 March 2019  and a further 
£22 for telephone calls in February 2019.
Mr D said he was grateful for the increase in the award for distress and inconvenience  but 
disappointed that I had not upheld his main complaint. He said he hadnt  seen  a copy of the 
template letter issued in 1999 a copy of which was held by this service. He noted that it 
wasnt possible to prove that the letter was sent to him and maintained his stance that the 
onus was on Scottish Widows to prove the letter was sent. It was clear  that they couldnt  do 
that. He felt there was a large  leap of faith in favour of Scottish Widows even with a copy  of 
the pro forma. 
He said he hadnt  questioned whether Scottish  Widows had the right to change the rules  
only that he shouldve  been notified  of such changes prior to them  taking affect so as to give 
him the chance  to evaluate whether the policy was still right for him. With respect to his loss 
he said it was all about what  has happened to his contributions  post June 1999 whatever 
amount they were.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  changed  my 
mind for the reasons  given below.
With respect to the level of distress and inconvenience my provisional decision set out my 
reasons for that award. I note also the payment towards costs of calls.  I also note that since 
my provisional decision Scottish Widows have supplied a further  letter which  it says was 
sent in 2002 confirming changes to the GAR arrangements in 1999. In my view this 
underlines the piecemeal manner in which Scottish Widows has dealt with this complaint and 
the provision of evidence to show  the change made in 1999.  I have reconsidered  the 
information and my reasons and I remain of the view that the reasons I gave are valid and 
an award of £500  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
With respect to Mr Ds comments about  the template letters, he has been supplied  with 
copies of both templates  from 1999  and 2002  and confirmed that he didnt receive  either of 
them. However for the reasons given  in my original  decision the validity  of the change didnt 
rest upon or require Scottish Widows  to be able to prove hed received the letters.
Ref: DRN46525105With respect to the issue of notification of changes prior to becoming  effective,  I have 
commented on this and the fact no notification was required  to be given either before or after 
the change. I also said that Mr D didnt increase contributions until much latter and at that 
time was advised by his IFA who wouldve been  aware and responsible for advising Mr D of 
the terms upon which those new contributions were paid.
With respect to his contributions post 1999 as indicated in my provisional decision the 
change in the policy applied only to increased  contributions after that time and the pre-
existing level of contributions continued to carry the benefit of the GAR. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part.
I direct  that Scottish Widows Limited  should pay Mr D £500 in respect  of distress and 
inconvenience. (For the avoidance of doubt  this includes  the £200  already sent by Scottish 
Widows and assuming  that has been  received by Mr D, Scottish  Widows  Limited  should  pay 
a further £300).
Following my final decision  Scottish Widows Limited must pay the total compensation within  
28 days of the date on which Mr D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay further interest on the compensation from the date of the final decision until the date 
of payment at the rate of 8% simple  per year.
If Scottish  Widows Limited considers it is legally required  to deduct income tax from the 
interest, it must send  a tax deduction  certificate with the payment so that Mr D can reclaim  
the tax if he is able to.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4652510