K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Elite Insurance Company Limited  unfairly declined  their claim 
under their home insurance  policy for damage  caused by an escape  of sewage water. They  
also complain that the business didnt put them up in alternative accommodation.
background
Mr and Mrs P contacted Elite Insurance  about an escape of sewage water  from their kitchen 
sink which  damaged their kitchen. They  provided  evidence from the water authority to show  
it had repaired a waste pipe in their back garden and photos of the damage  to the kitchen.
Elite Insurance sent disaster recovery experts  to the property  shortly  after the leak happened 
who reported that:
water had come up the sink in the kitchen  & into the cupboard  next to the stack. The unit 
next to the stack has blown and needs to be removed  in order to sanitise behind. The base 
units need to be removed and sanitised  behind. The units  are sodden with water  that is 
sewage. 6 base units need  to be removed. The kitchen  is dry and all we are dealing  with is 
removal of the kitchen and sanitation.
Three weeks after the leak, the disaster  recovery experts  arranged  for sanitation of the 
kitchen by a technique called fogging.  But Mr and Mrs P didnt think  this was sufficient  to 
ensure the kitchen was safe to use.
The business then sent round an assessor  who felt that the damage to kitchen units,  
worktops and appliances  wasnt covered because he said that damage was due to age and 
not the leak. It said the disaster recovery experts werent qualified to assess  what would be 
covered. So it declined that part of the claim.
Mr and Mrs P were  unhappy that their claim was declined so they complained to Elite 
Insurance. It rejected their complaint. So they came to this service.  
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. He said the business had 
declined the claim  unfairly  and should resume dealing with it. But he thought the fogging was 
sufficient to make the kitchen useable so he didnt think compensation for accommodation 
was due overall. He did, however, think the business should  pay Mr and Mrs P £250 
compensation for the three week delay between the leak and the fogging  when the kitchen 
couldnt be used.
Mr and Mrs P agreed with the investigators findings but Elite Insurance  disagreed  and 
provided more information  about the detail of the claim. It did agree to pay for the cost of 
replacing three kitchen  units  under the sink and six metres of worktop. And it offered to pay 
10% of the costs  of replacing other units which didnt match.  The investigator  considered  the 
additional information and Elite Insurances  offer. As a result,  he recommended that Elite 
should:
- Do a full clean, including cupboard  removal
-Consider the claim  again  if any additional damage  is found
- Test the washing machine, fridge and oven to see if they are safe and unaffected by the 
leak
- Consider  a claim for these items  if theyre found to be damaged
- Pay £250 compensation
Ref: DRN47300462- Pay 40% of the cost of replacing the undamaged items that are part of the claim
- Make a payment of disturbance allowance or offer alternative accommodation if the 
cleaning and/or repair work is likely  to mean  the kitchen cant be used for more  than a day.
Mr and Mrs P agreed with his assessment but Elite disagreed and put forward  a new offer to:
Have the electrical items tested by their contractor  or pay £85 towards the cost of you 
having this work completed
Pay £192.50 towards the replacement  of undamaged items (this represents a 25% 
contribution and is doors only as the business has assumed the undamaged  
carcasses can be reused)
Pay £703.56 to cover the cost of three base units  (one sink and two corner units)  and 
six meters of worktop. 
The investigator shared  the offer with Mr and Mrs P who didnt accept it. The investigator 
wasnt satisfied the business offer was fair in all the circumstances but Elite didnt  accept his 
opinion. So the complaint  has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen, I think the 
complaint should  be upheld  in part and Ill explain why.
There is no question that Mr and Mrs Ps kitchen was affected by a leak of sewage through  
the kitchen sink. So I need to consider whether  or not the way Elite Insurance  has dealt with 
their claim was fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. 
Although Elite initially declined their claim in relation to the worktops  and kitchen units, its 
now offered to cover the costs of three  units and six metres of worktop.  Its also offered to 
pay a 25% contribution to the costs  of replacing the undamaged doors to match the new 
units. But labour costs  are not included  in its offer. Its also agreed to pay £85 towards  the 
cost of electrical testing  of appliances  or to carry out the testing itself.  In my view, this 
doesnt go far enough to putting  the damage  caused  by the leak right.
Cleaning
From the photos Ive seen of the damage  to the kitchen along  with the initial  assessment of 
the damage by the recovery experts,  I find that additional cleaning  is required to make the 
kitchen safe to use. This is because there are signs that the sewage  water leaked behind  the 
units which would mean that fogging  was not sufficient to sanitise the kitchen. Therefore I 
find that Elite should do or pay for a full clean including cupboard removal and reconsider the 
claim if any additional damage is found. If the cleaning process or subsequent repairs  make  
the kitchen unusable for more than one day, Elite should make a payment of disturbance 
allowance or offer alternative accommodation for that period.
Electrical Appliances
Elite has agreed to pay for or carry out testing on the electrical items that may have been 
affected by the leak. I understand Mr and Mrs P have now done this and found the cooker 
and hob to be damaged.  I find that Elite should reconsider the claim in relation to damaged  
appliances.
Ref: DRN47300463Replacement Units and Undamaged Items
Elite has offered an amount to replace three units and six metres of worktop  but the offer 
doesnt appear to include  the cost of labour. The payment should include the costs of 
replacement including  labour as well as flooring and plinths if these are part of the claim. 
Elite has argued that, because of the condition  of Mr and Mrs Ps kitchen before the leak, it 
would be fair to pay for 25% of the cost of replacing  undamaged doors  to match  the new 
cupboards. From the photos its clear  that the kitchen wasnt  new at the time of the leak. But 
I dont think it was in such bad condition to justify  such a low assessment. In my view, Elite 
should cover  40% of the costs of replacement doors including labour to fit them.
Compensation for delay
It took Elite three weeks from the date of the leak to organise fogging of the kitchen.  In the 
circumstances with sewage contaminating the kitchen and with the family having  small 
children, this delay  did cause  Mr and Mrs P difficulty. In the circumstances I think Elite 
should pay Mr and Mrs P £250  compensation for this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is upheld in part. 
To put things right, Elite Insurance Company Limited should:
-Arrange or reimburse for additional cleaning and sanitisation  including removal  of units  
to clean behind  and reconsider the claim if further damage is revealed  in the cleaning 
process;
-Make  a payment  for disturbance allowance if cleaning and repairs  makes the kitchen 
unusable for more  than one day;
-Reimburse for testing costs of electrical  appliances and reconsider the claim on those 
shown to be affected by the leak;
-Pay for the full cost of replacing three units and six metres of worktop  and flooring and 
plinths if included in the claim including labour and pay 40% of the cost of replacing 
undamaged doors to match  including labour;
-Pay Mr and Mrs P £250 as compensation for the delay before fogging  the kitchen.
Mr and Mrs P should provide invoices for any costs  incurred  for which  they seek  
reimbursement. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 23 November  2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4730046