K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 1997. Miss P says Financial  Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
Miss P took out the store card and PPI in a garage   but FICL  has taken responsibility for 
the sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ps case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Miss P says that she was not aware  of the PPI, and didnt know she had the policy.  But I 
think that FICL made it clear that she didnt have to take out the PPI, and that she chose  to 
do so, although  I can understand why she doesnt  remember this as it was so long ago. I say 
this because FICL has provided  a copy of Miss Ps store  card application  and I can see 
that the policy is presented as optional, and has been selected, Miss P has then signed the 
application, agreeing to the information on it. Miss P has asked who selected the PPI  but 
this cant be known for certain. However, Miss P signed the application as Ive explained 
above. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss P so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss P got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss P about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Miss P has said, but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October  2019.
Ref: DRN47624452Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4762445