K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about their home  insurer Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  
Company Limited  (LV) because it declined to make any settlement for their theft claim.
background
In August  2015  Mr and Mrs G came  home  to find their front door open  (but undamaged), the 
upstairs of their home  ransacked  and their safe (which had been secured to the floor) 
missing. They called  the police and notified  LV.
When speaking to LV, Mr G told it that the jewellery that had been in the safe was worth  
around £65  70,000. The advisor  noted  that the sum insured for contents was only £75,000  
and asked Mr G if hed been aware  of this. Mr G said he was but he hadnt  needed any more 
cover than this because the jewellery  was kept in the safe.  A lot of the jewellery items were 
individually worth more  than £1,500 (meaning they were high-risk  items  under the policy 
which should have  been specified).
LV began investigating the claim; it felt it need  to make enquiries to ensure that a genuine 
theft had occurred. These enquiries  concluded around April 2016 and LV began  considering  
whether the amount of valuables in the home set against the sum insured for replacing  all 
contents would impact its liability for the claim. It decided  it would  still have offered cover  if it 
had known about the true value of contents items in general and the high risk valuable items,  
but it would  have added a condition  to the policy requiring  an alarm be fitted.  In its view, as 
Mr and Mrs G didnt have an alarm fitted  at their home, their claim failed and no settlement 
was due to be paid. Mr and Mrs G complained.
Our investigator felt that Mr and Mrs G had failed to take reasonable care when arranging 
the policy. She was satisfied that this meant LV could do what  it would have done  if the 
correct information  had been given  to it at the outset. She was also satisfied  this meant it 
would have required an alarm be fitted and, as Mr and Mrs G didnt have an alarm,  LVs 
consideration that their claim failed was fair and reasonable.  
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy. They  said they felt LV had treated them  poorly from the outset 
and that if it had intended to decline their claim for underinsurance it should  have done so 
earlier. But they said they hadnt  underinsured,  that LVs valuations of their remaining 
contents items were  overinflated; according  to their own assessment all of their items would 
total just £78,000. On that basis they felt the fair thing for LV to do was to settle  at least a 
proportion of their claim. Their complaint  was passed to me to assess.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All insurers have a duty to investigate claims to ensure they are genuine. What that means in 
each case will vary depending  on the claim. Sometimes, often where  large amounts of 
jewellery are reported as being stolen and there  are questions surrounding how entry was 
gained to the property (as was the case here), insurers will instruct their fraud investigation  
teams to make enquiries. Those investigations can seem invasive and unfair  to the 
policyholder, and they can take time as well. But, an insurer making  enquiries  like this is a 
natural and necessary part of many claims.  
Ref: DRN46968412Here I can understand  why LV needed  to look into the claim in more detail before it moved 
on to consider whether and what settlement would be made for it. I think enquiries  took a 
little while  but referral to the police was required and that often prolongs matters. Ideally 
enquiries would have progressed more quickly but I havent seen that LV caused any 
unreasonable or avoidable delays during this process.
When LV was satisfied  Mr and Mrs Gs claim was genuine it moved  on to assessing 
settlement for it. Ideally  it could have been clearer with Mr and Mrs G at the outset that this 
was something it would need to look at in more detail later on.  It could also have made 
enquiries in this respect whilst waiting  to hear the results of the fraud team  enquiries. But 
that wouldnt really  have lessened the blow of the outcome. 
I accept that Mr and Mrs G didnt set out to deceive  LV as to the contents  in their home. But 
that doesnt mean that they took reasonable care to answer the questions correctly  that LV 
asked when the policy was arranged. And if a prospective policyholder fails to take 
reasonable care in answering questions, and provides an incorrect  answer,  then an insurer  
is allowed to act as it would have done, if the correct answer had been provided.
LV has satisfied me that Mr and Mrs G arranged this policy  on-line. Mr and Mrs G refer to a 
phone call but LV hasnt  been able to trace one. LV has shown that Mr and Mrs G were  
clearly asked to tell it the total value of the contents  in their home and also the number of 
any high risk items. Mr and Mrs G said their contents were worth £75,000 and they didnt 
advise of any high risk items. 
When Mr G called to notify LV of the theft he told it that he had jewellery  worth  £65  70,000. 
He said he hadnt  felt the need to be insured for more  than £75,000 because  he had a safe 
which was where most of the jewellery  was kept.  But Mr G wasnt  asked by LV to tell it how 
much he wanted to be insured for  he was asked for the total value of all his contents. If 
Mr and Mrs G misunderstood LVs question that wasnt LVs fault. Nor was it LVs fault if they 
chose to give a different  answer ie the value they felt they needed to be insured  for. In both 
instances, in my view,  Mr and Mrs G failed to take reasonable care to give a correct  answer 
to LVs question.  
I know Mr G has recently argued that £75,000 is about the right value for all his contents  
meaning despite what he said during the claim notification call, he didnt answer LVs 
question as to value of contents  incorrectly. Im not persuaded  in this respect, not least 
because Mr and Mrs G havent provided a professional valuation, only their own 
assessment. But even if I saw a professional  assessment, that doesnt answer the fact that 
when they arranged cover  Mr and Mrs G didnt tell LV about  their high risk items. 
It seems  this may well have been because Mr and Mrs G felt it wasnt  necessary to do so 
because they were kept in the safe. But again that means that Mr and Mrs G didnt take 
reasonable care in answering the questions asked of them. 
LV has provided  some  detail from its underwriters. This shows that if LV had been  told about 
the high risk items it would have applied different terms to the cover; it would  have required 
that an alarm was fitted. 
Because, in my view, Mr and Mrs G didnt take reasonable care to answer all of LVs 
questions correctly, it is allowed to act as it would have done had that correct information 
Ref: DRN46968413been received.  That means  it can assess the claim against the policy terms that would  have 
been in place. Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs G, because they dont  have an alarm and LV 
would have required one, that means LVs decision to decline their claim was fair and 
reasonable. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 June  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4696841