K820x#14complaint
Miss P says Quidie Limited (Quidie), trading as Fernovo, lent to her irresponsibly. She also 
says shes unhappy  about the wording of Quidies final response  letter.
 
background
Miss P had one loan with Quidie, which commenced  in September  2018. The loan was for 
£300 repayable in monthly instalments of £75.86.
An adjudicator considered  Miss Ps complaint but didnt recommend  it be upheld. He didnt 
think proportionate checks wouldve suggested the loan was unaffordable and that Quidie 
acted reasonably by relying on information  provided  by Miss P. He acknowledged  Quidies 
final response letter was unsympathetic  but didnt suggest this warranted compensation.
Miss P didnt agree with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Miss Ps case. 
Quidie was required to lend responsibly. Broadly,  this means it was required to carry out 
proportionate checks before lending to Miss P.
I can see that Quidie  checked Miss Ps income,  which was determined to be about £2,340 
per month. It also carried out a credit check and the information it obtained from this included 
that:
Miss P had loans  to the value of £1,420
Miss P had £21,887 of revolving credit  (e.g. credit cards) and was using 95% of her 
available limit
Miss P had an arrangement to pay for her mortgage and shed  kept up with this
Ive not seen that Quidie asked Miss P for clear information about  her expenditure. This is 
something I think it ought to have  obtained in her circumstances, particularly given  her level 
of existing debt.  Monthly  payments towards  Miss Ps revolving  credit  alone could easily have 
been around £700 per month  and Ive seen no evidence Quidie made  a reasonable 
assessment of Miss Ps total monthly expenditure.
Ref: DRN49691222Having said this, I dont  think asking Miss P for more information about the costs of her 
monthly credit commitments  wouldve suggested the loan was unaffordable,  given  the 
modest size of the monthly payments compared to her income.
It may be that a more  in depth review  of Miss Ps finances (such as asking for further  proof 
of income and expenditure) would  have revealed that the loan wasnt affordable  but I dont 
think this wouldve been proportionate. In saying this, Ive taken into account that the credit  
report Quidie obtained showed Miss P had an arrangement  to pay for her mortgage. 
Adverse information  in relation to a priority debt is somewhat  concerning  but it appears 
Miss P had kept to that arrangement to pay for around two years, so wasnt  behind  on her 
priority debts at the time she applied for Quidie. That the arrangement  to pay had been in 
place for some time also suggests  the cause of the mortgage arrears  was an historic event.
Ive noted that Miss P said she had four other payday loans when she applied  to Quidie. Ive 
not seen clear evidence that the number  of active payday loans was this high  although as 
Ive set out above Quidie  was aware  of other  active loans from its credit check. But I dont 
think this information  was so problematic that Quidie couldnt reasonably  decide  this 
relatively small loan was likely to be affordable.
Finally, I agree that the language used in Quidies  final response letter is unsympathetic.  But 
I dont think it reaches the threshold  for an award of compensation. I cant tell Quidie how to 
run its business  but I would suggest it avoids  using  language like this in the future.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Miss Ps complaint against Quidie Limited
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4969122