K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Rational Foreign Exchange Limited trading as Xendpay Limited  failed to 
process a payment to his account in Hong Kong.
background
Mr B says he used Xendpays website in September 2018 to send  money to his account in 
Hong Kong. He says Xendpay sent him a message telling  him the beneficiary had received 
the money which wasnt true. Mr B says Xendpays  interface didnt allow  him to enter his full 
Hong Kong bank  account details and says that may have been the reason the transaction 
wasnt successful. Mr B also says Xendpay said the transaction  would take three days which 
wasnt true and as a result he had to pay a fee. He would like an apology,  compensation and 
for Xendpay to recognise  that it cant process  payments  to accounts in Hong Kong.
Xendpay says it doesnt have a problem making payments to accounts in Hong Kong and 
says the problem was caused  by Mr B inputting  the account details incorrectly and possibly  
inputting details of his name  incorrectly.  It says it didnt  tell Mr B the beneficiary  had received 
the money but that we sent it  and the money should be available. Xendpay says it 
refunded Mr Bs money  and waived any charges 
Mr B also complains about Xendpays customer service and says when he was told money 
should be available that suggests the money  had been transferred. He brought  his complaint 
to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold  it. The adjudicator thought  that Mr B had accepted 
that his account  details  didnt appear  to fit in with Xendpays systems and so couldnt 
conclude it had made a mistake. He didnt  think Xendpays message was misleading by 
saying the money  should be in the account.  The adjudicator didnt think  there was evidence  
of Xendpay making a mistake and didnt think he could tell it how to run its business by for 
example asking it to recognise it couldnt process  payments to Hong Kong.
Mr B doesnt  accept that view and says his side of the argument hasnt been considered. He 
accepts he isnt an expert in Hong Kong  bank  account numbers but says he had no reason 
to believe the numbers he inputted would be insufficient. Mr B says he thinks  Xendpay 
should accept  that its systems cant handle Hong Kong bank account numbers and says the 
company made a serious  error.
The adjudicator looked at matters again  and said that Mr B had accepted in an e-mail to 
Xendpay that the problem with the transfer may have been caused by the numbers  he 
entered didnt  fit with Xendpays systems. He also thought that Mr Bs money  had been 
refunded within two days of his request  for a refund.
Mr B says that at the time he sent the e-mail  he was made aware that there may be a 
problem but at the time he made the transfer  he was confident there wasnt an issue.  He 
maintains he provided the correct details in the required format. He also says that a Xendpay  
staff member also tried to make  the transfer.  Mr B says it was impossible to enter the full 14 
digit account number  into Xendpays systems.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall conclusion  as the adjudicator. I realise  Mr B will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened.
Ref: DRN42317812I dont think that Xendpays message  to Mr B, after he had attempted  to make the transfer  
was misleading. Im satisfied that it didnt tell Mr B that the money  had been received  by his 
account in Hong Kong. But said that the money should be available. So I dont  think  
Xendpay made a mistake or acted unfairly be sending Mr B that message. I appreciate that 
isnt the main part of Mr Bs complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr B entered  the account  information online when he tried to transfer the 
money. I also agree with the adjudicator that Mr B in his email  to Xendpay said that the 
information he inputted didnt fit with Xendpays  required  fields. I appreciate  Mr B says when  
he sent that e-mail he had become aware  there may be a problem. But I think on balance 
based on what that e-mail said and what Mr B has told us that he couldnt input the 14 digit 
number  that he was aware  at the time that there  may have been  a problem. So I cant fairly 
hold Xendpay responsible for problems  in a transaction in circumstances where  Mr B 
entered the information.
Ive looked at the information Xendpay required and details of the information Mr B has 
provided about his account. Ive also looked  at the form Mr B completed and what hes told 
us about what  he considered was the account  number  and the suffix  and prefix. Having done 
so Im satisfied that there are subtle  differences in what should have been entered by Mr B. 
For example I can see that he entered a single digit for the suffix  when it appears that this 
should have been a two digit number. I appreciate that Mr Bs Hong Kong bank account 
information was recorded in what I think was a fairly unusual  manner in that it appeared to 
contain a prefix and suffix.  But Im satisfied that Xendpays systems did allow a 14 digit 
number to be entered. And for the reasons Ive explained I cant fairly hold Xendpay  
responsible for how another business records an account number. 
I appreciate Mr B says that he spoke to Xendpay  about the transfer and another attempt was 
made. But I think it more likely  than not that there  was still confusion about what was Mr Bs 
exact account number and so again  I cant fairly hold Xendpay responsible  for that.
Overall I dont think Xendpay has made a mistake  here but in any event  it isnt our role to 
order a business  to change its policies or processes. Im also satisfied that Xendpay acted 
fairly by refunding  Mr Bs money  within a short period of time-48 hours after he requested  it. I 
dont think it kept Mr Bs money  for an inordinate period of time as Mr B says and I think the 
delay was caused by attempts to make the transfer.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4231781