K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Ms H complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (Bank  of Scotland) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr R and Ms H bought a regular premium MPPI policy in May 1993. They purchased  the 
policy during a meeting with an advisor  from Bank  of Scotland  in one of its branches.  The 
policy covered Mr R only against accidents,  sickness and unemployment.  The policy and 
mortgage ended in October  2003.
Mr R and Ms H say they were not advised the MPPI policy was optional. Mr R also says he 
did not claim on the policy when he was made redundant some  time after the sale.  They  think  
the policy was mis-sold  to them.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr R and Ms Hs complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr R and Ms 
Hs case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold  Mr R 
and Ms Hs complaint  because of the following reasons:
Bank of Scotland has been  unable to provide much of the sales documentation  that was 
used at the time of sale. There is little information  available  and so I cant  be sure how the 
policy was presented by an advisor  from Bank  of Scotland to Mr R and Ms H during the 
meeting and Ive not been  able to see most  of the original  sales documentation (such as 
the agreement  or application form). So its been  difficult  for me to consider whether Mr R 
and Ms H were given a choice or not as to whether  they should have the MPPI policy  (or 
whether they were  told they had to have it).
Mr R and Ms H say that they were not given an option to have it but Im not aware of any 
known issues  with the way Bank of Scotland sold these policies around this time. Ive also 
not been able to obtain a detailed recollection of how the meeting at the time of sale. This is 
understandable considering the amount  of time that has passed. So, with this all in mind, I 
cannot fairly  conclude  on this occasion  that the policy  was sold in the way Mr R and Ms H 
say it was. I just havent  seen enough  on this occasion  to make that conclusion. 
Moving on, Bank of Scotland has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr R and Ms H during 
the meeting and so, as this puts additional responsibilities  on the business, I will proceed 
that this was the case. So as it did recommend the policy to Mr R and Ms H, it had to 
ensure during  the sale that the policy was suitable  for Mr Rs needs as the sole policy  
holder. 
Ref: DRN43498782After reviewing  the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mr R based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr R says 
he had 2 months full and 4 months  half sickness benefits  along with £1000 of joint 
savings. So because  Mr R says he had very good sick pay benefits, I have needed to look 
at the policy and see if he would have still wanted the cover  it provided and whether it was 
suitable for him. 
I can see the policy would have paid in addition to any provisions (including sick pay) Mr 
R would have  had. So the benefit  would have been of use to him during a difficult  time as 
he could have  used  their provisions to pay for other  expenses. I think,  on balance, Mr R 
had at least  some need  for this cover  for any extended period of unemployment or 
sickness over a longer  period than their provisions covered. I also couldnt find any other 
reason such as a significant or limiting  term that would make the policy  unsuitable for him 
either.
Bank of Scotland has provided  some information  about  the costs  relating to the MPPI policy  
that Mr R and Ms H took out but even  though  it has provided information detailing the cover 
and how much  it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs were disclosed  to Mr R and Ms H in 
a clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even  if they were disclosed clearly  I dont 
think Mr R and Ms H would have done  anything different  and decided  against having the 
policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being suitable for Mr R.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point  out the main  things  the policy didnt cover.  But 
its unlikely Mr R wouldve been  affected  by any of these.
Finally, Mr R says he was made  redundant but didnt  claim  benefit.  But Mr R may wish to 
approach the insurer again to see if it would be prepared to accept and consider a 
retrospective claim. If he does pursue a retrospective claim and finds that he has concerns in 
this regard, then he should first express  those concerns  to the insurer,  and if unable to reach  a 
satisfactory conclusion, they may be able to bring  a complaint relating to the retrospective 
claim to this service as a separate matter.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold Mr R and 
Ms Hs complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr R and Ms Hs complaint.  Under the rules  of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr R and Ms H to accept or reject my 
decision before  20 October 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4349878