K821x#15complaint
B, a limited  company, complains about the way Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading  
as Cashplus) dealt  with a payment to its account  from overseas. B is represented by its 
director, who Ill refer to as Mr C. Mr C asks that Cashplus  apologises  and pays compensation. 
background
In November 2018 a business investor sent money  to Bs account with Cashplus.  Cashplus 
returned the payment to the sender, saying it didnt originate in a country from which  it 
accepts international  payments. Mr C has several complaints about this:
Mr C says the money  originated from, and was sent by a bank in, a country  from which 
Cashplus does  accept  payments. He says he sent proof of this to Cashplus.
Cashplus  didnt  tell him it had returned the money:  he only found out when  he chased it 
about the payment;
an intermediary bank  deducted a fee from the payment;
the money  wasnt returned to the sender  for many months. Cashplus didnt trace  the 
payment or provide  information for it to be traced.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He said while  the 
payment was made by a bank in a country from which Cashplus accepts payments, based 
on the information it had it was reasonable for Cashplus to believe the funds originated 
elsewhere. So it was entitled to return the payment. 
Our investigator said it wasnt made clear to B that Cashplus might not accept the payment.  
Cashpluss service was poor. The matter had affected investment in B. The investigator said 
Cashplus should pay compensation of £500.
Cashplus didnt agree. It took responsibility for problems with the payment being  returned 
and offered compensation of £250.  Mr C says B has financial losses  of about £4,0005,000.  
As the parties didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me. However,  in the meantime new 
evidence arrived. So I issued a provisional decision to the parties, taking account of the new 
evidence and giving them an opportunity to comment on my findings. In my provisional  
decision I said, in summary, that Cashplus had made  an error and should pay £500 for the 
inconvenience and compensate B for any financial losses that B could evidence. 
Mr C didnt agree. He restated his complaint points. Mr C said B borrowed money  to launch 
its business expecting  this to be repaid when the investment arrived.  Mr C says as a result of 
Cashpluss errors, the investor  withdrew  and B has struggled since.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN44708312was cashplus  entitled to return the payment to the sender?
The terms and conditions  of Bs account  say Under  certain circumstances[Cashplus] 
have the rightwithout  notice to decline funds paid-in and/or transactions.
Cashplus says it accepts  international  payments originating in certain countries and provided 
a list which  is also available on its website.  Cashplus said the payment originated  in a 
country (which Ill refer to as country A) which is not on the list. So it returned the payment to 
the sender.
I appreciate that Mr C continues to dispute this: he says the payment originated in a country 
(which Ill refer to as country B) which is on the list of countries that Cashplus accepts 
payments from. The bank that sent the payment  is in Country B. And, from what  Mr C says, 
the investor was in country B at the time.  But the payment credit advice says the payment 
was sent by a person with an address in country A. So I can understand why Cashplus 
thought that was where the funds originated. The notes provided by Cashplus show  it 
reviewed the payment  after Mr C contacted it but remained of the view that it originated in 
country A.
I think Cashplus was entitled under  the terms of the account to return the payment and, 
based on the information it had, I dont think it was unreasonable for it to do so.
did Cashplus  give Mr C enough information about what  happened with the payment?
The account  terms and conditions dont set out all the circumstances in which Cashplus 
does or doesnt  accept  international payments.  I dont think  this is unreasonable, given  the 
wide range  of possible circumstances and the likelihood of changes. Information about which 
countries Cashplus  accepts payments from is on its website. 
From what  Mr C has said, he expected the payment to originate  in country B. So Im not sure 
hed have acted  differently  if Cashplus  had done more to bring  the list of countries  that it 
accepts payments from to his attention.
Mr C says Cashplus didnt make him aware that fees can be applied to international 
payments by intermediary  banks.  Cashplus offered  to refund the fee (£8.06) applied  by an 
intermediary bank as a goodwill gesture. I think this is fair.
The payment arrived  with Cashplus on 21 November  2018 and it started  the return  process  
the next day. Mr C says it didnt tell him it returned the money  to sender: he only found out 
when he chased  it about the payment. Cashpluss  notes show  that Mr C contacted  it on 28 
November 2018  to ask what had happened  to the payment he was expecting.  
Cashplus told Mr C hed have to wait 30 days for proof the payment had been  returned to 
sender. He contacted it again,  after the 30 days had passed, to ask for the proof as the 
sender hadnt  received the funds. Cashplus provided a copy of the payment debit advice: 
however the sender still hadnt received  the funds. 
Since the complaint came to this service, further  information has been  provided which  
suggests an error by an intermediary bank meant  the sender didnt receive the funds back  
until May 2019. During this time, Mr C says he contacted Cashplus numerous  times about 
the missing payment. 
Ref: DRN44708313what compensation is fair and reasonable?
Mr C says the funds were needed  to develop Bs business. He says he had to raise  funds 
elsewhere and this delayed B launching its business. And the matter damaged Bs standing 
with potential investors and business  associates.
While I appreciate the difficulties this caused B, I dont think  Cashplus made  an error when it 
didnt accept the international payment. So I cant reasonably require Cashplus to pay 
compensation to B for the effect this had on its business, such  as having to raise money 
elsewhere, the costs  of doing so and delays in B launching its business.  
But Cashplus did make  errors. The information  it gave to B before May 2019 about  the 
payment having  been returned wasnt correct: the funds were  still with Cashplus. Cashplus 
has taken responsibility  for delays  in the payment being returned to the sender. So Ive 
considered what  it should  do to put matters right.
I think B should be compensated for costs or losses which are a direct result  of Cashpluss 
errors. Mr C says Bs losses are about  £10,000. Ive considered what Mr C has said in 
response to my provisional  decision and previously.
I dont think I can fairly  require Cashplus to pay compensation to B for damage to its 
reputation. Id need evidence of this, and that it caused financial loss which  I could quantify. 
Mr C says he made trips overseas to try to sort out the missing payment. He provided  
evidence of this. But I dont think its reasonable to require Cashplus to pay compensation for 
the cost of these  trips. Its not clear to me how these trips helped to find the missing payment 
or that this was the sole purpose of the trips.
Mr C provided  evidence  that the investor  wrote to him in May 2019 saying he will no longer 
invest in B. He says this means B wont be able to repay the money  it borrowed  to launch its 
business and progress its project. I appreciate  that money borrowed by B has to be repaid, 
but I dont think  its reasonable to say that the amount  borrowed is a loss. B has use of the 
money in its business.  Mr C hasnt provided evidence  of the borrowing or the terms. He 
hasnt provided  evidence of what investment B now needs to make,  what effect not being  
able to do this has had, or why B cant raise  funds elsewhere. I appreciate Mr Cs concerns  
about losing  an investor, but I dont have the information Id need  to compare Bs business 
as it is with how it might have been  if the investor had gone ahead  with the investment. 
I dont have the necessary evidence to assess what Bs financial loss  if any  actually is. So I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to require  Cashplus to pay compensation for financial loss.
Cashplus said it would consider compensation for financial loss if Mr C provides evidence. I 
think thats reasonable. I dont think its reasonable to require Cashplus to pay compensation 
for financial loss without evidence to support whats claimed.
B is a limited  company, so it doesnt  feel upset or embarrassment. I cant  usually award 
compensation to third parties  such  as Mr C  or for third parties losses or upset. So while I 
appreciate how upsetting  and frustrating this has been for Mr C I cant require Cashplus to 
pay compensation for that. But Bs director (Mr C) did suffer unnecessary inconvenience and 
B can be compensated for that. Mr C had to chase Cashplus for five months before the 
problem with the payment was identified. And he had to communicate  with Bs investor 
about the missing  payment throughout this time.  On balance, I think  £500 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN44708314my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Advanced  Payment Solutions  Limited  to:
refund the £8.06 fee, as it offered to do (unless its already done  this);
pay £500 to B; and
if B provides evidence of financial loss, consider this fairly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4470831