K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about information  Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) has 
given to credit reference agencies  (CRAs)  about payments to his credit card.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  were set out in my 
provisional decision dated 19 November 2018. A copy of this is attached  and forms part of 
this final decision.  In my provisional decision I invited  both parties to let me have any further 
comments and evidence.
Mr H said he accepted  my provisional  decision regarding the April 2017 payment but he 
doesnt agree about Barclaycard recording a late payment in May 2017.  He says 
Barclaycard told him this wouldnt be reported to CRAs.
Barclaycard didnt agree with my provisional  decision and its made a number  of comments  
which Ill consider  below. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened again to the recordings of Mr Hs telephone calls with Barclaycard. When he 
called to make the payment that was due in April 2017 he was told it wouldnt affect  his 
credit file. But when  he called about the May 2017 payment he wasnt  in a position to make  
the payment that day. He was told several  times  that, if he didnt make the payment that day, 
a late payment would  be reported to CRAs.
Mr H was subsequently told by Barclaycard the late payments  that had been reported  to 
CRAs for April and May 2017 could be removed.
For the reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision Im satisfied Barclaycard was entitled  to 
record a late payment against  Mr H in May 2017 and he shouldnt have been told it could be 
removed. Although he was misled  about the removal of the late payment notification for May 
2017 this doesnt automatically mean  Barclays should now be required to remove  it. I need 
to consider if the incorrect information had an adverse  affect on Mr H and if he could have  
acted any differently if hed been  given the correct information.
At the time Mr H was told by Barclays it could remove the notification,  the late payment had 
already been reported to CRAs. I think it was too late for Mr H to do anything to get it 
removed. So dont  think the fact that Barclaycard  gave  Mr H incorrect  information is sufficient 
for me to reasonably  decide it should remove the late payment notification for May 2017.
The above  misinformation  will have caused  Mr H some  trouble and upset  but I think hes 
been compensated for this in the payment Barclaycard has already given him. Im not, 
therefore, intending to require Barclaycard to pay him anything  further for this.
Barclaycard has commented on the message about  reporting late payments on its website 
that I referred to in my provisional decision.  It says the message on its website states (and  
Ref: DRN41429792you were up to date last month). It says Mr Hs account wasnt  in order before April 2017  
and he didnt meet the criteria to be allowed a further fourteen  days to make the payment.
The part of the message  on its website  Barclaycard  has brought  to my attention specifically  
refers to last month. There is no reference to previous  months. Consequently, I only need 
to be satisfied Mr H made  the payment that was due in March  2017 on time.  Ive looked at 
the statements  for Mr Hs account which show he made the payment that was due in March  
2017 by direct debit  on the due date. Im, therefore, satisfied Mr H was up to date in March 
2017 and he met the criteria set out by Barclaycard  to be allowed another fourteen  days to 
make the payment in April 2017.
Barclaycard has also said that the fourteen day period starts on the payment due date.  If this 
interpretation is correct,  the payment Mr H made  in April 2017 was made the day after the 
fourteen day period expired. If hed been  able to make the May 2017 payment on the day he 
called Barclaycard it would also have been  a day late.
I dont agree with Barclaycards interpretation of the wording it used. I think  the statement 
within fourteen  days of the payment due date would normally be taken to mean that the 
fourteen day period started  the day after the payment  due date. Barclaycard has now 
amended the message on its website to say specifically that the payment due date is 
included in the fourteen days.  But that wasnt the case in April 2017.  I also note that the 
Barclaycard employees  who spoke  to Mr H werent  aware of Barclaycards interpretation.
Given the above, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint. I require Barclays  Bank  UK PLC to remove the 
late payment for April 2017 from Mr Hs credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41429793Copy of provisional  decision
background
Mr H had a credit card known  as a Barclaycard. Up to April 2017 he made the monthly  minimum 
payments due on the card by direct debit.
In April 2017  Mr H didnt have enough money in his bank account to cover the minimum due on his 
Barclaycard so the direct  debit wasnt paid. He contacted Barclaycard by telephone fourteen days  
after the payment was due and made the minimum  payment on a debit card. He was told his 
Barclaycard was then up to date and nothing would be reported to CRAs.
In May 2017  Mr Hs direct  debit  for the minimum payment to Barclaycard  wasnt paid again because  
he didnt have  enough  money  in his bank account. Once  again,  he telephoned Barclaycard  fourteen 
days after the payment was due. On this occasion he said he couldnt make the payment on his debit 
card that day because  it was a bank holiday  and he needed to pay cash into his bank account. 
Barclaycard told Mr H it would report the late payment to CRAs.
Mr H complained to Barclaycard. It accepted he had received poor service and he shouldnt  have 
been told the late payment  in April 2017 wouldnt be reported to CRAs. It paid him a total of £150 
compensation and refunded  charges amounting to £24 it had applied  to his Barclaycard in April 2017. 
But it didnt remove the late payment notifications to CRAs
Mr H wasnt  satisfied with Barclaycards response and referred  his complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She thought the information 
Barclaycard had given the CRAs was a true and accurate reflection of the way his account had been 
run.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators conclusions.  Hes referred to a quote from Barclaycards  CEO 
on a money  advice website. The quote says that if Barclaycard customers  pay within  fourteen days  of 
the payment due date their credit file wont be affected.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive looked at the Barclaycard terms and conditions which say a customers records with CRAs  may 
be affected  if they miss a payment. Here, Mr H did miss his contractual  payments,  because  he didnt 
make them in time in both April and May 2017. But, in considering the individual circumstances here, 
Ive also taken  into account the quote from Barclaycards CEO.  Theres also information on 
Barclaycards own website  saying customers credit files wont  be affected if payment is made  within  
fourteen days of the due date.
Im currently  satisfied that Mr H made the payment that was due to Barclaycard in April 2017 within  
fourteen days of the due date.  So Im not persuaded Barclaycard acted reasonably  when it reported a 
late payment  to CRAs.
Mr H telephoned Barclaycard on the fourteenth day after the payment was due in May 2017. He 
wasnt in a position to make the payment  on that day because it was a bank  holiday and he said he 
needed to pay cash into his bank account.
I think  Mr H would have known he had to make the payment on the fourteenth day to avoid a late 
payment being reported  to CRAs. I think he also ought to have known it was a bank holiday on the 
Ref: DRN41429794fourteenth day and hed need to make arrangements to pay money  into his bank account  before then. 
So Im satisfied Barclaycard  was reasonably entitled to record  a late payment with CRAs in May 2017.
In the above circumstances I currently think Barclays  should cancel  the late payment notification  for 
April 2017 but it shouldnt have to cancel the late payment notification  for May 2017.
Ive considered if it would be appropriate for Barclaycard to pay Mr H any more compensation. At 
present, I dont think I could reasonably require  it to pay any more. I have to be fair to both sides here 
and consider that it was Mr Hs responsibility to make sure he had enough  money in his bank account 
to pay the direct debit . In addition, he didnt contact Barclaycard until the last day he could make the 
payments in both April and May 2017.  So I think the compensation  Barclaycards already paid is 
sufficient for the errors  its made.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any additional comments and evidence I get from the parties  my provisional decision is I 
would uphold  this complaint. I would require  Barclays Bank  Plc to remove the late payment for April 
2017 from Mr Hs credit file.
Ref: DRN4142979