K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC missold him a Travel  Pack.
background
Mr A first opened a fee free account  at Barclays in August 2000. In March  2004 he upgraded 
to a fee paying account. Mr A then continued  to have a fee paying account, upgrading from 
time to time to new accounts, with various different benefits.
Mr As complaint is about what  happened when he downgraded his account in November  
2013 to a fee free account. When he did this, he signed up to have a Travel  Pack  added on 
to his account which he paid extra for each month.
The Travel  Pack offered worldwide family travel insurance, car breakdown cover and a fee 
free overdraft up to £200.
Mr As main complaint is that Barclays mis-sold him the Travel Pack because  he says it 
didnt make it clear to him that the breakdown cover it offered  didnt  cover  his vehicle. 
Our adjudicator looked at Mr As complaint  but didnt think Barclays had mis-sold him the 
Travel Pack.  Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
decide Mr As complaint.  
After looking at all the available information,  Im not upholding Mr As complaint. Heres why 
I say this.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr A was given a clear  choice about taking the Travel 
Pack. Barclays was required to take reasonable steps to make Mr A aware that taking out 
the Travel Pack was optional and that it was only added to Mr As account with his consent. 
It appears that Mr A agreed to take out the Travel pack during  a meeting with an advisor at a 
Barclays branch. I dont know what was discussed about the Travel  Pack.  But taking into 
account what Mr A remembers about  that meeting, and looking at the paperwork that he 
signed to take out the Travel Pack,  I think  he understood that it was his choice to have the 
Travel Pack  added on to his account. 
So, I find that Mr As account was upgraded to include the Travel  Pack  when he chose to 
take it out.
Mr A says Barclays  advised him to take out the Travel Pack. Barclays  says it didnt  
recommend the Travel  Pack to Mr A  it just explained what  it could offer and left the 
decision whether  to have it or not up to him. 
Ref: DRN44660862If a business makes a recommendation  to a customer  to buy a financial product, it has to 
take reasonable steps to make sure that what it recommends is suitable. So Ive thought 
carefully about whether I can fairly say that Barclays recommended the Travel Pack to Mr A. 
The declaration form Mr A signed to get the Travel Pack added on to his account specifically 
says that he hadnt received any advice from Barclays about whether the Travel Pack was 
suitable for his needs. Looked at overall,  I dont think Ive seen enough information for me to be 
able to say that Barclays  advised Mr A to have  the Travel Pack. This means it was up to Mr A to 
decide if he wanted to take it out, knowing what other cover he had in place at the time. 
Barclays still had to give Mr A enough clear  information about  what  the Travel Pack offered 
so Mr A could decide for himself if it was right for him. And if Barclays didnt give Mr A as 
much clear  information as it shouldve  done, I need to decide if Mr A is worse off as a result.
As far as I can see, I think Barclays probably did draw the main features of the account  to 
Mr As attention. Looking  at the declaration form Mr A signed  to get the Travel  Pack,  it 
appears that he was given information about  what it offered. 
Mr A told us that he expected to have to pay a fee for an overdraft facility.  As the Travel 
Pack offered  him a fee free overdraft up to £200  it seems likely that this was something  Mr A 
had in mind when he was thinking  about whether to take out the Travel Pack.  
 
Even if the travel insurance wasnt a particularly useful feature for him, this doesnt  mean  
that the policy was mis-sold. Taking into account everything Ive seen,  on balance, I think its 
more likely that Mr A decided he did want at least some of the benefits  that the Travel Pack 
offered him. 
As far as I can see, he was able to make use of the breakdown cover.  I accept that as a 
result of an experience  on one particular occasion  when he tried to use the breakdown  cover  
Mr A may now believe that he hasnt  benefitted  from the Travel  Pack  as much  as hed hoped 
and expected to when  he initially took it out. He told us that the recovery service mechanic 
who attended that call out told him that Barclays didnt cover his vehicle. He may also have 
been told by a branch staff member that, in general,  vans arent covered by this benefit.
But it looks  like the breakdown service did respond  to his call and a repair  was carried  out  
which he wasnt charged for. Additionally, Barclays has confirmed  the make  and model of 
Mr As vehicle  and that this vehicle wouldnt be considered as commercial under the policy, 
and so would be covered.  So, I dont  have enough evidence to make a finding  that the 
breakdown cover couldnt have been  used by him. This means that even if Barclays didnt 
explain this potential uncertainty  as well as it shouldve  done, I cant  see that Mr A is any 
worse off financially. This means  theres  nothing  Barclays needs  to do to put things right.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr A. But, after looking at all the 
information provided and thinking  about everything hes said,  I dont find that Barclays  has 
treated him unfairly. 
Ref: DRN44660863my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4466086