K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr B say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them three  mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policies.
background
Mrs B arranged a mortgage with Halifax  in 1994  and a PPI policy was added to it. The policy 
would have paid a benefit of £250 a month for up to 12 months  if Mrs B made a successful 
claim for unemployment and for up to 24 months for any successful claims for an accident  or 
sickness. 
In 1997, Mr B was added to the mortgage  and the policy was amended to include him. The 
benefit was spilt evenly between them. The policy cover remained the same as in 1994. 
In 2002 Mrs and Mr B arranged further borrowing with Halifax. At this time their previous PPI 
policy was cancelled and a new policy set up. This policy  was part of a package  called  Total  
Mortgage Protection Plan (PPI) which  offered accident, sickness, unemployment,  critical 
illness and life cover. But Mrs and Mr B only took out the cover for accident,  sickness and 
unemployment. 
The policy again  covered both Mrs and Mr B. It would  have paid a benefit of £604.16 a 
month and was spilt 75% to Mr B and 25% to Mrs B. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 
24 months if either of them had made  a successful  claim  for accident, sickness  or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs and Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs and Mr Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
1994 sale
The PPI was sold during a meeting between Mrs B and Halifax.  During that meeting Halifax 
shouldve made  Mrs B aware  she had a choice in buying the policy.   
These events were obviously a long time ago now. We dont have much documentary 
evidence to refer to because Halifax no longer has any copies. This is unfortunate, but not 
particularly unusual given  how long ago the sale was.
So, weve seen quite  a few similar sales to this from that time period. And as a result, weve  
looked in detail at what Halifaxs sales processes were like.
Ref: DRN42264682We know for example  that consumers were  normally  sent or given a letter about the types 
of cover theyd agreed to at the mortgage  interview. This usually set out that consumers, 
like Mrs B, had accepted the recommendation to have the policy.
Ive also seen the copy of Mrs Bs PPI application  form. This wouldve been separate to the 
mortgage application. The form has then been  completed  with some details about how 
much cover is required and some basic questions about Mrs Bs employment and health at 
the time.  
I think the information on the form suggests that a discussion took place between Mrs B and 
Halifax about PPI and she chose the benefit  amount that best suited her circumstances at 
the time.  And based  on what I know about  how Halifax sold policies like this at the time I 
think its likely the optional  nature wouldve been made clear. Mrs B has signed the form so I 
think she wouldve had the opportunity  to question anything she hadnt agreed to or was 
unsure about  before  she did. 
So overall I think its more  likely  Halifax made it clear to Mrs B she had a choice about taking 
the PPI and she agreed to it.  
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mrs B. So it had to take reasonable steps to check it was 
right for her. Looking at Mrs Bs circumstances, she seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Mrs B wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mrs B says she had good sick pay and redundancy benefits from her employer. But the 
policy wouldve paid out alongside these benefits. And it doesnt look like Mrs B had any 
other means  such as savings to cover her mortgage  repayments  if she was unable to work  
for any reason.  So it seems she had a need  for the policy. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Halifax gave 
Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - 
so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive explained above - it 
looks like the policy would  have  been useful for them if something went  wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for her. Ive noted  Mrs and Mr Bs comments  
around the variable  rate of Mrs Bs mortgage repayments and the fact the benefit amount 
agreed wouldnt have  always  covered  the mortgage repayment. But the benefit  amount was 
correct at the time the policy was added  and it doesnt look like Mrs B tried to make a claim 
on the policy, so this point doesnt  mean  the complaint should be upheld. Overall,  I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put Mrs and Mr B off taking out the cover.
1997 sale
The amendments to the policy took place  during  a meeting. Like in the 1994  sale, Halifax  
shouldve made  Mrs and Mr B aware they had a choice in buying  the policy.  
Again, we dont  have  much documentary evidence to refer to because  Halifax  no longer 
has any copies. As Ive said above, this isnt particularly unusual given how long ago the 
sale was.
However, Ive looked at the main points  of complaint put forward by Mrs and Mr B. The key 
one is that they were  told it would improve their chances of obtaining  the borrowing if they 
took the PPI. Whilst I accept this may well be their genuine belief now,  weve seen quite a 
Ref: DRN42264683few similar  sales  to this from that time period. And as a result,  weve looked in detail  at what  
Halifaxs sales processes  were like.
We know for example  that consumers were  normally  sent or given a letter about the types 
of cover theyd agreed to at the mortgage  interview. This usually set out that consumers, 
like Mrs and Mr B, had accepted the recommendation  to have certain, or all, elements of 
the PPI policy.
We were also sent some  screenshots of Halifaxs internal computer system. Ive seen  
quite a few of these  before and I also know from experience  that they show, as in this case,  
that Mrs and Mr B were asked several questions relating  to the cover theyd agreed to buy. 
Because I think what was keyed into the Halifax computer system,  would  have been  done 
at the time of the mortgage  interview   I think its most likely  all aspects of the PPI were 
probably discussed in some  detail. 
So overall, I think its more likely  Mrs and Mr B agreed to the PPI at the time of the 
mortgage interview and sale knowing they didnt have to take it out. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs and Mr B so it had to make sure the policy  was right for 
them. From what  Ive seen, it seems to have  been suitable for them based on their 
circumstances at the time. Ill explain why:
They met the policys requirements so were eligible for it.
Both Mrs and Mr B say they wouldve received  sick pay benefits from their 
employers. In the event of a successful claim. But the cover wouldve paid their 
mortgage repayments for up to 24 months if Mrs and Mr B were unable  to work due 
to being too unwell.  It would have also covered them if they became unemployed for 
a maximum of 12 months. The policy wouldve paid out alongside  their employee 
benefits. 
It doesnt look like there was anything about  Mrs and Mr Bs circumstances that 
wouldve made it difficult for them to claim. For example, they didnt have any existing 
medical conditions  or unusual working  patterns. 
It doesnt look like the policy  was unaffordable for them.  But  the policy  couldve been  
cancelled at any time if it stopped being  useful to them. 
As well as making sure the PPI was right for them,  Halifax shouldve taken reasonable steps 
to point out the main things the policy didnt cover to Mrs and Mr B. I dont know if Halifax did 
point these things  out. But Ive explained why I think the PPI was right for Mrs and Mr B. And 
I dont think clearer information wouldve changed their decision.  I think they still would have 
bought it. I say this for the same reasons I think the policy  was suitable for them. 
2002 sale
This policy was also sold during  a meeting between Mrs and Mr B and Halifax.  Again during 
that meeting Halifax shouldve  made Mrs and Mr B aware  they had a choice in buying the 
policy. Again  Mrs and Mr B say the PPI wasnt mentioned.  
Like with the previous  two sales, neither Halifax nor Mrs and Mr B have much paperwork 
from the time of sale. I dont think thats surprising. But it does mean I have limited 
Ref: DRN42264684information about the sale, so I have to decide  what I think is likely to have happened, given  
the information I do have and the broader  circumstances.
Ive seen a screenshot of Halifaxs records which shows  it asked  Mrs and Mr B a series of 
questions checking  whether they were eligible for the policy  and also recorded their 
answers. I think this suggests that a discussion took place  between Mrs and Mr B and 
Halifax about PPI  and based  on what I know about  how Halifax sold policies like this at the 
time I think its likely  the optional nature wouldve been made clear.  
So overall I think its more  likely  Halifax made it clear to Mrs and Mr B they had a choice  
about taking the PPI and they agreed to it.  
Halifax also recommended this policy to Mrs and Mr B. So it had to check  it was right for 
them. 
Looking at their circumstances in 2002,  it appears they were eligible for the PPI cover  and 
not affected by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies.  Their  mortgage 
was also secured against their home  and so the consequences of them  not being able to 
make the repayments  could have been  serious. The PPI policy,  on the other  hand,  was 
designed to pay a monthly  sum for up to 24 months if they needed to claim. This was longer 
than their employee benefits  wouldve  paid out for. 
During the sale Halifax shouldve provided information which was clear.  I cant  say 
Mrs and Mr B were  told or given  all the information  they should have been  but I think  they 
would have been easily able to see how much  the PPI cost and what  was covered.  I think 
they would  have also been  given  a copy of the policy terms.
Having carefully considered this case,  I think its much more  likely that Mrs and Mr B 
tailored the PPI cover to suit their needs of the time. I think they probably  agreed to the 
elements of the cover because it was something  they thought would be useful to have.  
All this means I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.
I know Mrs and Mr B feel strongly and will be disappointed  by this outcome. Theyve put time 
and effort  into their complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points theyve raised,  
including what theyve  said about  other  policies  being refunded but I have to judge each 
complaint on its individual merits. So this point doesnt change  my decision.  
I have also noted  Mrs and Mr Bs unhappiness with how Halifax has handled their complaint 
in general. I can see that the adjudicator has referred them  back to Halifax to raise  their 
concerns directly with it. I agree that this is the best course of action for them.  
Ref: DRN42264685my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4226468