K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Miss C complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC declined their applications for 
a buy to let mortgage and a residential  mortgage.
Mr W and Miss C believe Barclays lending decision was wrong. They want compensation 
including the cost of fees they paid for replacement lending elsewhere,  and a refund of the 
Early Repayment Charge  (ERC) which Barclays charged when they paid off the existing 
mortgage. 
background
Mr W and Miss C visited a Barclays branch to discuss applying  for a buy to let mortgage and 
a residential mortgage.  They wanted  to rent out the property on which Mr W had an existing 
Barclays mortgage, and release some  equity for the deposit on their new residential 
property. They submitted the applications on 7 August 2018. 
Barclays assessed the residential application,  and it provided a Decision in Principle, subject 
to the approval  of the banks underwriters. 
For the buy to let application, Barclays underwriters  asked for Mr Ws trading  accounts. 
Mr Ws financial year had only ended at the end of July, so the full years figures werent  yet 
easily available, but Mr W did obtain  draft copies  which he sent to Barclays. Barclays 
underwriters considered the application but rejected  it. As the buy to let application was 
declined, Barclays also declined the residential application.
Mr W and Miss C complained. Barclays final response explained that the underwriter had 
said it had been  declined because at the end of the financial year to 31 July 2018, the 
accounts only showed a profit of around  £16,000.  The underwriter considered  that this 
meant Mr Ws salary  wasnt sustainable.  Barclays noted that the company had a high net 
worth investor, but pointed out that that individual could reduce Mr Ws salary, or withdraw  
investment, in the future.  The bank said that the underwriters decision had been  reviewed  
by two other underwriters, who had agreed.
But Barclays  accepted  that it should  have asked for Mr Ws trading accounts earlier, at the 
beginning of the residential  application. It agreed  that if it had done so, Mr W and Miss C 
might have had their decision some five weeks earlier.
Barclays accepted  that, during the application  process, Mr W had got back  in touch with the 
banks mortgage  adviser,  to say that they no longer wanted to go ahead with the buy to let 
application, because  Mr W had had a cash offer to buy the property. Barclays  apologised for 
its lack of communication and offered £400  for the distress and inconvenience  caused by 
this and by the delays  in telling Mr W and Miss C that it wouldnt be able to offer lending. 
Barclays wouldnt refund  the ERC it had charged  when  Mr W sold his original property.  It 
said it had made the correct decision  to decline both loans.  And it explained that there  was a 
high possibility that Mr W wouldnt have  been eligible for the revised, residential-only,  
mortgage.
Barclays offered Mr W and Miss C £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused, which included  compensation for the delays in notifying  Mr W and Miss C about the 
mortgage rejections.  
Ref: DRN40213542Mr W and Miss C werent satisfied and complained to this service.
They said that when  theyd first applied for the two mortgages, theyd gone  to see Barclays  
and it had been obvious that Miss C was pregnant.  They  said they believed the reason 
Barclays had declined  their applications was discrimination  because  Miss C was pregnant.
Mr W and Miss C also said that, during  the application process, theyd told Barclays they had 
a cash buyer  for Mr Ws existing mortgage. So they only needed the residential  mortgage. 
Mr W and Miss C said that if the adviser  had actioned this, theyd have had an offer on the 
residential mortgage.
Mr W and Miss C said as a result of the Barclays refusals, theyd had to pay broker  fees, a 
valuation fee to another lender, and the ERC  on Mr Ws existing Barclays  mortgage. They 
said they wanted mathematical proof  that the reason for the decline wasnt Miss Cs 
pregnancy. They said theyd passed affordability on the residential  mortgage. They  want 
these fees refunded, and more compensation than Barclays offered them.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr W and Miss Cs complaint. She looked at Barclays internal 
system notes for the buy to let application, and saw that Barclays were requesting  self-
assessment documents, and tax year overviews between 7 August and 24 August when the 
bank received these.  The notes showed  that Barclays underwriter had assessed these 
documents, and asked  for trading accounts,  on 29 August. When these arrived,  the 
underwriter decided Mr Ws income was unsustainable. The applications had been decided  
on 5 September  but the letters werent sent out until 27 September  and 8 October. The 
adjudicator considered Barclays offer of £400 compensation for the delays was fair. 
The adjudicator noted Mr W and Miss Cs request for mathematical proof for the declined  
applications, because  they believed the real reason was discrimination. She explained  that 
some of the documents were confidential, and she couldnt share  those  lenders dont have  
to disclose decision documentation. But she said that she had reviewed the file and 
considered Barclays  had taken its decision on affordability, particularly Mr Ws income.
Mr W and Miss C werent satisfied. They said they believed Mr Ws income was sustainable. 
And they didnt feel the adjudicator had put enough  emphasis on the human element and 
customer service  Barclays  had provided.  They said the banks lending  decision was 
incorrect, and had lost them  a lot of money. They want to be compensated for that.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular, Ive looked  at the banks 
records of the reason  for the declines. Its not for this service to tell a lender what 
commercial decisions it should  or shouldnt take about whether to lend to individuals.  But Ive 
looked at the reasoning on the banks files.
Having done so, I accept that Barclays underwriter took the decision on the basis of 
affordability, once  the bank had Mr Ws detailed financial information. Underwriting decisions 
are confidential  and lenders dont have to supply potential  borrowers  with either  the banks 
lending policy and criteria,  or detailed information about its reasons relating  to individual  
borrowers. Barclays doesnt have to provide  the mathematical proof which  
Mr W and Miss C have  asked for. I also note that the first underwriters  decisions were  
Ref: DRN40213543reviewed by two other underwriters. Taking these facts into account, I dont find that 
Barclays acted wrongly.
Mr W and Miss C have  also told us that they believe  the real reason they were declined was 
discriminatory, on the grounds of Miss Cs pregnancy. Technically, this service  cant  
consider issues which  a consumer hasnt first raised with the bank, in order to give the bank 
the opportunity  to reply. I cant see any record that Mr W and Miss C have complained  about 
this to Barclays. So I dont  have the authority to make definite findings  on this element.  
But I would point out that the Barclays underwriters worked in an in-house team  in a 
different location,  and none of them would have  met Miss C when she and Mr W visited a 
Barclays branch. Ive seen nothing on the banks records where the branch adviser told the 
underwriter about  Miss Cs pregnancy. So I consider its most unlikely that the decision-
makers even knew Miss C was pregnant. And the bank did issue  a decision in principle, 
subject to underwriting  it was at the underwriting stage that the applications were rejected.  
So I consider its most unlikely that Mr W and Miss Cs allegation that Barclays discriminated  
against them  because  of Miss Cs pregnancy, would satisfy the tests required by the Equality 
Act 2010.
I find that Barclays did delay in communicating its decline decisions. These decisions were 
reached in early September but the letters werent sent out until 27 September and 8 
October. The decisions must have been communicated  verbally before this, because  
Barclays final response to Mr W and Miss Cs complaint is dated 26 September. 
Its possible that if Barclays  had asked for detailed accounts at the start of the residential  
mortgage application, the rejection decisions might have been sent out earlier. But they 
might not, because Mr Ws accounting  year only ended on 31 July  so its unlikely hed 
have had the relevant information available much  earlier than he did.
I have considered what compensation would be fair and reasonable for the delay in 
communicating the decline decisions,  and for not asking for detailed  accounts at the start of 
the residential mortgage application. I find that the banks offer of £400 is fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr W and Miss C have  also complained that Barclays didnt act on their request to cancel 
the buy to let application, and go ahead just with the residential one. They argue that the 
residential application had already been  approved. But it hadnt   a decision in principle is 
not a formal mortgage offer, and no offer was issued. The document which was issued says:  
This is not a legally binding mortgage offer and does not oblige Barclays to provide you with 
the mortgage described in this illustration. I also note that in its final response, Barclays  
commented that there was a high possibility that you would not have been eligible for this 
mortgage. So I do not find that the bank was already  committed to lend to 
Mr W and Miss C. All it had done  was provide a decision in principle,  which was subject to 
the full application which included proof of income.  
Finally, Mr W and Miss C said that they appreciated  that the adjudicator  had come  to her 
conclusions from a contractual basis,  but said she didnt take into account the human 
element and customer service provided by Barclays. I recognise that Mr W and Miss C 
would have been disappointed not to get the lending they wanted. But a mortgage  is a 
contractual agreement, and thats  the right test to see whether or not Barclays did anything 
wrong and whether it should refund the fees which Mr W and Miss C claim. For the reasons 
above, I find the bank doesnt  have to refund the fees they are seeking.  I consider the £400 
Ref: DRN40213544compensation for distress and inconvenience  caused by the delay in communication fairly 
represents the human element and Barclays customer service. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Its not clear to me whether or not Mr W and Miss C have accepted the £400 compensation 
offered by Barclays Bank UK PLC. If not, I leave it up to them  to decide whether or not to 
approach the bank  to ask whether this compensation is still available.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4021354