K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold  payment  protection insurance
(PPI) to her alongside a mortgage in 1996.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I know that when  this PPI policy was sold,  BOS was 
trading as Halifax. BOS  is responsible for complaints like this about Halifax. To keep things  
simple, Ill refer to BOS for the rest of this decision.
background
On 16 October 2019, I issued a provisional  decision,  which  is attached and forms part of my 
final decision. In that provisional decision,  I said I didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. I asked the parties  for their comments. 
BOS didnt reply. Ms S did respond  and sent some comments and further  evidence  for me to 
consider. In her letter, she reiterated that PPI had been sold as part of a package. She 
provided documentation relating to a PEP that was taken out at the same time as the 
mortgage. She said that she would not have  taken the cover if she had been advised 
correctly because she had adequate  means in place from her employer.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding
this case. 
I want to assure Ms S that Ive taken account of all the information shes sent to us. That 
includes the notes  from her initial meeting and that which was provided in her letter dated 
7 November 2019. Im sorry to disappoint  Ms S. But the additional information  provided 
hasnt caused  me to change my mind.  I havent  upheld the complaint. Ill explain why below. 
I reiterate what I said in my provisional  decision in that I dont doubt that what Ms S told us is 
what she honestly remembers about  the PPI sale. Ive thought carefully about  the PEP 
document Ms S sent to me and her point that the PPI was sold as a package. However, as I 
said in my provisional decision, whilst  Ms S took out the PEP, I can see that she also 
refused some other financial products. So, I think she would have known  she had a choice 
about whether  to buy PPI. 
Ive thought again about  what Ms S said about  not needing  PPI because of her work 
benefits. However, I can see that the cover would have lasted for longer than her full sick 
pay would have  lasted.  Again, as I set out in my provisional decision,  I want  to stress that 
this mortgage was secured on Ms S home,  which could have been put at risk if she fell 
behind with her repayments. She doesnt appear  to have been  affected by any of the policys  
exclusions. Overall, I can see how the PPI could have been  helpful to Ms S if she needed to 
make a claim. 
I appreciate  Ms S feels strongly that PPI was mis-sold. But upon considering the evidence 
before me, I cant say that it was. It follows then that I havent upheld  the complaint and I 
dont need to tell BOS  to take any further  action. 
Ref: DRN42407772my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
copy of my provisional decision 
complaint
Ms S complains  that Bank  of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold payment protection  insurance  (PPI) to 
her alongside a mortgage in 1996.
I know that when this PPI policy was sold, BOS was trading as Halifax. BOS is responsible for 
complaints like this about Halifax.  To keep  things simple, Ill refer to BOS  for the rest of this 
decision.
Ref: DRN42407773background
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint  should be upheld. Ms S did not agree with that view. 
In summary, she said:
The meeting record does not indicate  that PPI was optional and it was not made  clear  
that Ms S had a choice;
BOS did not recommend the cover to her;
The costs and benefits were not made clear and if they had been, she would  not have 
taken the cover out;
When the policy was taken out, Ms S was very vulnerable  after a significant  life 
event. She does  not think  BOS  can show that it treated her fairly at that time.
When the complaint was passed to me, I could  see that Ms S had referred to some evidence that 
had been sent to us, but had not been  seen by our adjudicator. I am grateful  to Ms S for her swift 
reply in providing me with that evidence and I am able to consider it now.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  
in the circumstances  of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  
the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding  this case.
I am sorry  to disappoint Ms S. But having  considered all of the evidence  before me, Im afraid 
I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain  why below.
Ms S told us that she had bought PPI during a meeting with BOS. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Ms S is wrong in her recollection.  I can see from the contemporaneous evidence she 
provided that she took her mortgage and other policies out during a meeting.  And from the notes 
provided, the person  advising her about the mortgage  had also agreed to provide a quote  for MRI 
 this is the PPI policy. So I think its likely that the PPI was also sold during a meeting between  the 
parties.
I cant  know  what was said during that meeting.  So to help me decide whats likely to have  
happened, Ive looked at what  Ms S told us about it and Ive also taken account of what BOS  said 
was likely  to have  happened. Ive also had the benefit of some  documentary evidence thats 
available from the time.
The first thing Ive considered is whether PPI was optional and Ms S would have known  she didnt 
have to buy the cover if she didnt want it. I want to make clear that I dont  doubt that what Ms S 
told us is what she honestly remembers about the sale. But I also have to take account  of the fact 
that the cover was sold over 20 years  ago and it is difficult to remember precisely what  happened 
such a long time ago.
I can see that when Ms S met with BOS, it suggested that she take out two further insurance  
policies in addition to PPI and that she also open a tax free savings  account. I can see from the 
paperwork that Ms S was able to tell BOS that she didnt  want  those policies.  And from the payment  
history that BOS provided, it doesnt appear to me that she made  any payments towards  those 
policies.
Ive thought carefully about  what  Ms S said when  she told us the PPI was sold as part of a 
package. As I said, I accept  that what she says is what she recalls  about that cover, but looking at 
things objectively, it looks as though the PPI was sold at a separate  time to the mortgage  the 
evidence she provided said BOS would quote for PPI at a later date. So at the time, I dont think 
she would have thought  the PPI was a condition  of the mortgage. And as she refused the other 
policies, I think she would have probably known  she could refuse the PPI too.
Ref: DRN42407774Ive treated this as an advised sale. Thats a higher test for BOS to satisfy because it had to make 
sure that the cover was suitable for Ms S needs. To help me decide  whether  it was suitable, Ive 
looked at what she told us about her personal  circumstances at the time.  And Ive also looked at 
the terms and conditions of the cover.
I can see that if shed had to make a claim  on the PPI, Ms S repayments would have been 
covered for up to 12 months if she was too unwell  to work or if she was made redundant.  I can see 
that Ms S had some  sick pay from work and some savings. But with PPI, she could have used her 
existing resources on her other essential expenditure at what would have no doubt  been a very 
stressful time for her if she couldnt work. I want to stress that her mortgage was secured on her 
home and so the consequences if she couldnt meet her repayments could have been significant.
Ms S appears to have  been in good health when  she bought the PPI cover.  So I dont think shed  
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions  about medical conditions. I havent seen 
anything else that was unusual  about her circumstances at the time that would have stopped her 
from being  able to make  a successful claim if she needed to.
With all of this in mind,  I think  the policy was suitable for her. Even so, BOS still had to give Ms S 
enough information about the cover so she could decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her 
needs. That information should have been clear, fair and not misleading. I accept  its possible that 
BOS didnt  tell Ms S everything  it should  have  about  the PPI. So I now have to consider whether 
shed have acted differently  if BOS had given her all of the relevant information about the cover.
Ive set out above how I think the PPI could have been helpful to Ms S if she couldnt work. And 
although I appreciate she doesnt now recall, Im satisfied that she probably chose  to buy the policy 
at the time  so it looks  as though she wanted that type of cover. All in all, I dont think  Ms S would  
have changed her mind  if shed been given more  or better information about the cover.
I am sorry  to disappoint Ms S, but it follows  that as things stand, I dont think the complaint should be 
upheld. Im not intending  to ask BOS to take any further action  to put things right.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further information the parties send to me, I dont intend to uphold this complaint 
about Bank of Scotland Plc.
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comm  e to consider
by 16 November  2019  after which I will issue a final decision.
Ref: DRN4240777