K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has unfairly closed her account  without telling her 
or providing  notice.
background
Ms A says she had been working  outside the United Kingdom and on her return  was classed  
as a non-habitual  resident. She says that means  she isnt entitled  full benefits. Ms A says 
HSBC closed her account without telling her and as a result of her status  she cant  open  a 
bank account  elsewhere. Ms A says this has affected her health and she has no money to 
buy any food or support  herself.
HSBC says Ms As account entered an unarranged overdraft in late 2017. It says it wrote  to 
Ms A about this and refunded charges and interest to try and help her. HSBC  says it spoke 
to Ms A in October 2018 and told her that she had about three  months to repay  the balance 
before the account defaulted. It says it also wrote to Ms A following the call. HSBC has paid 
£50 compensation  as a gesture of goodwill but doesnt accept making a mistake by closing 
the account.
Ms A brought her complaint to us but our investigator didnt think  that HSBC had made a 
mistake. The investigator thought HSBC had acted fairly be refunding  charges and trying  to 
set up various plans. But the investigator thought HSBC had made it clear to Ms A in the 
telephone call in October 2018  that she had just less than three months to repay the balance 
and avoid the default. The investigator  thought the gesture of goodwill payment was fair and 
reasonable for the delay  in HSBC responding to Ms As complaint.
Ms A says shes now in a worse position as a result of HSBCs actions and maintains she 
wasnt told about the account  closing.  She says if she doesnt have a bank account then that 
renders her as non-habitual resident.  She wants the account reopened with her overdraft 
facility restored.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as that investigator. I realise Ms A will be disappointed  by my decision.
Ive looked at HSBCs  records  and can see that Ms As account  entered an unarranged 
overdraft in late 2017. I can also see a number of letters that were  sent to Ms A about the 
overdraft and that various plans were put in place and charges and interest refunded. So I 
think Ms A ought to have been  aware that HSBC were concerned about the overdraft and 
that it wanted to agree  a repayment plan to avoid  a default being registered on Ms As credit 
file.
I appreciate that Ms A says she didnt receive some  of those letters. But Ive listened to the 
call between  the parties from October  2018. Having done so Im satisfied that HSBC 
explained on a number of occasions that Ms A had less than three months  to clear the 
overdraft or the account would close and default.  Im satisfied that Ms A told HSBC she 
wanted to avoid that and that she hoped her circumstances would change. Im also satisfied 
HSBC explained  that there was no way of stopping that happen unless the overdraft was 
repaid or there was a change in Ms As financial position. I think Ms A realised that as she 
Ref: DRN43071422told the advisor that I know ...got  to change my circumstances. And that she said she 
thought her position would change by the end of the month.
So I dont  think HSBC  made a mistake  or acted unfairly  by closing Ms As account and 
registering a default  on her credit file in circumstances where the account had been 
overdrawn for over a year with no regular payments into it.
Im satisfied banks and building societies should accurately report  the account  position to the 
Credit Reference Agencies. I appreciate that may have affected  Ms As residency status  but 
I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for that. And for the reasons Ive explained  I think  Ms A 
was fairly  told what would happen  to her account.
Banks and building societies should treat their customers  in financial difficulties positively 
and sympathetically. Im satisfied HSBC  did act in such a way in this case  by agreeing 
various plans and by refunding charges and interest. 
As I dont think HSBC has made a mistake or acted unfairly I cant fairly order it to reopen 
the account or reinstate  her overdraft. I can see that the investigator has given Ms A details  
of organisations  that may be able to assist her with any debt problems. I also agree with the 
investigator that there was a delay in responding to Ms As complaint but the gesture of 
goodwill payment fairy reflects what happened  and is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4307142