K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that a used car he got with a hire purchase agreement  from 
N.I.I.B. Group Limited (trading as Northridge Finance) is of unsatisfactory quality. 
background 
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 5 November 2018. A copy of this is attached and it forms part of my final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  what Id decided  about this complaint  and 
what I intended to do  subject to any further submissions from the parties.
Both parties  have responded.  Mr B doesnt  accept  my provisional conclusions.  He has 
provided detailed  submissions over several  responses. It wouldnt be practical  to reproduce 
everything here so I hope Mr B will understand if I summarise his comments as follows
this car is faulty and was not up to the appropriate standard when he got it;
he was misled about remedial work and asked to let the dealer fix things; 
hes being penalised now because he gave the dealer the chance  to repair faults;  
he wasnt told this would affect  his right to reject the car - hed like to know  how his 
rights in relation  to rejection  were adhered to;
he didnt accept the repairs and he was never offered a proper refund;
he was let down  by Northridge and the dealer  and his options are restricted  now so 
he loses out whatever  happens;  
he was forced to keep  this car legal and in a roadworthy condition  so all of his losses  
- including every monthly payment,  road tax of £240 and insurance of about £867 - 
should be refunded along with any related cancellation fees;  
he paid about  £200 for diagnostic checks at the start of 2018 and £50 for an MOT 
test near the end of last year; and
he has experienced excessive stress and inconvenience as a result of Northridges 
actions and should receive more  than £500  compensation.
Mr B has also discovered some additional issues since I issued my provisional decision. He 
says tyres fitted at the outset are deteriorating  and not in line with the manufacturers 
recommended specification or current standards. He had to pay a lump sum of around £500 
to renew his car insurance because of this. He wants me to address  these  matters  - along 
with all of the other evidence - in this decision.  
Northridge doesnt agree  with my provisional findings either. It says (in summary)
I have given too much weight to Mr Bs evidence and its wrong to simply accept his 
version of events which is inconsistent at times;  
further consideration should be given to the cars age and mileage at the point of 
supply - as many  parts would be coming to the end of their natural lifespan;
an eight year old vehicle with around 68,000 miles  on the clock should not be 
expected to meet a higher standard than the roadworthiness checked in the MOT 
test passed shortly after supply;
the dealer is frustrated  because many attempts were made  to resolve  this matter - 
including remedial  work and a refund offer - which were declined  by Mr B; 
there wasnt a failure to repair within a reasonable time - Mr B refused repairs that 
were offered; and
Ref: DRN48159592Mr B should not be entitled to a refund now when he declined  an offer last year. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for their further  submissions. Mr B, in particular, has gone  to 
considerable time and trouble to provide very detailed comments and additional  information.  
I know he feels I havent understood what  hes said - or considered his submissions in the 
proper context. And he thinks my provisional  findings are unfair. Northridge, on the other 
hand, says Ive accepted  too much  of Mr Bs evidence and failed to consider  properly  the 
cars age and mileage  - and earlier efforts to try and sort things out.  
I want to assure both parties that I have considered  everything theyve  said and sent. I 
recognise there are strong feelings on both sides. I am satisfied that I understand the points  
the parties have  made. But, the fact that I understand whats been said by one party  or 
another doesnt mean I must necessarily agree with their view.  
I would remind the parties  that this service offers informal dispute  resolution. I dont have the 
power to compel  or cross examine  witnesses or third parties  in the way that a court  might. 
Its my job to consider  what  happened  impartially. I have to weigh up all of the available 
evidence. And, where evidence is not clear or its inconclusive or inconsistent  - as some of 
the evidence is here - I make my decision on the balance  of probabilities.  This means  I think  
about what seems most likely based  on the evidence available  and the wider  circumstances.   
  
Im going  to concentrate on what I consider is material  and relevant in this decision.  If I dont  
mention any particular point, thats not because Ive failed  to take it on board. Its just that I 
dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach what I consider  is a fair and reasonable 
outcome overall.  
right to reject
As Ive acknowledged already in my provisional  decision, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
gives consumers a short-term right to reject goods within the first 30 days.  Or, if the 
consumer agrees to repairs, a final right to reject if the repairs  dont resolve the problem 
within a reasonable time.
Theres no dispute that Mr B was unhappy with this car when he first got it - and he raised 
his concerns with the dealership quite quickly. I am satisfied the dealer offered  to fix things 
and Mr B agreed. I understand Mr B may wish now that he hadnt given the dealer the 
chance to repair - with the benefit  of hindsight. But, I think  it was reasonable of him to do so 
at the time. 
I accept the dealer said it would, in effect, buy the car back  and settle the finance  around this 
time. I have considered  what Northridge says about this offer. I dont think  Mr B was offered 
a complete refund and compensation for his out of pocket expenses or the upset and trouble 
he experienced. Mr B seems to have explained  at the time that he didnt think the offer went  
far enough - and its unfortunate  the parties werent able to resolve the matter  at that stage. 
But, I am satisfied Mr B retained  a final right to reject if repairs werent carried out properly or 
within a reasonable time.  And I am not persuaded it would  be fair to find he lost that solely  
on the grounds of the offer that was made.  
Ref: DRN48159593I realise Mr B feels it was obvious  that the repairs undertaken  by S didnt fix everything. But, 
I dont think there was enough evidence to show that the car remained of unsatisfactory  
quality until the independent expert provided his view in June 2018. And I think  it was 
reasonable to obtain independent  expert evidence in these circumstances. 
For the reasons  Ive set out in my provisional  findings, I remain  of the view that this car was 
probably of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.  Im satisfied Mr B gave S the chance 
to put things right but the repairs  it did were  not completely successful and the car was not 
fixed within a reasonable time. I find it fair that Northridge should take the car back now and 
refund the deposit Mr B paid with interest. 
redress
I know Mr B feels strongly that this finance agreement should  be null and void  as a result  of 
what happened. He wants to be put back in exactly the same position he would have been in 
if hed never  taken out the finance. 
As Ive explained, I am satisfied there was a breach of contract here. And this service does 
generally try to put consumers back in the position they would have  been  in if a financial  
business had not done something wrong - insofar  as thats reasonably  possible.  But, I cant 
simply turn back the clock  in this situation. I must  consider  all of the evidence and relevant 
circumstances in order to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. 
loss of use and enjoyment
I am satisfied Mr B has had some  use of this car. He was able to travel a fairly significant 
distance - over 5,000 miles. And he was kept mobile when this car was off the road for 
repairs. If Mr B hadnt had the use of this car (or the courtesy replacement) he would have 
had to pay for another vehicle - or some  alternative form of transport. 
I am not persuaded it is reasonable for Mr B to travel  for free in this situation. I think  the 
approach Ive taken  is fair. And I remain of the view that Northridge should  refund 50% of the 
monthly payments  Mr B made  under the finance  in recognition of his loss of use and 
enjoyment. The road tax and insurance Mr B paid are expenses  that come  with running any 
car. And I am not persuaded that Northridge should have to refund those payments, in these 
circumstances. 
the cost of diagnostic checks  and 2018  MOT test fee
Mr B has sent us bank  statements that show he made payments totalling £200 to two third 
party garages in January  2018. He says these were for diagnostic checks  in addition to the 
£82.80 I mentioned in my provisional  decision. In light of the timing and recipients of these  
payments, I think it is likely they relate to diagnostic checks for this car. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, I think Mr B should have the cost of diagnostic  checks refunded as 
these are charges  he would not have incurred  but for the breach of contract. 
Mr B says he also had to pay about £50 to put the car through  an MOT test in December 
2018. I understand Mr Bs reasons for putting  the car through the MOT.  I think it likely hell 
receive very little benefit from that - if he accepts this decision - as I have found Northridge 
should take the car back.
Ref: DRN48159594I told Northridge about these payments.  I explained  I was minded to conclude  that Mr B 
should have them refunded - if they havent been  refunded already. Nothing Northridge has 
said has changed my mind. And I find it fair that Northridge should refund these amounts - if 
Mr B provides evidence  of the relevant payments.  
distress and inconvenience
I have no doubt  that Mr B is disappointed that this car was not of satisfactory quality when he 
got it. I realise it has been frustrating for him to have  to return to dealers and keep driving the 
car whilst it had ongoing issues. And I can see he feels Northridge should  have  done  much 
more to try and resolve matters. 
In my provisional decision I said I thought Northridge should pay Mr B £350 compensation 
for the impact of any breach of contract or mistakes it has made on Mr B. I know Mr B feels  
he should receive much more than that but I remain of the view that £350 is fair and 
reasonable compensation overall.  
tyres not to specification  and the cost of renewing  insurance 
Mr B asked for some  extra time to respond  to my provisional decision in December. I 
considered it was reasonable to allow that, given the time of year in particular. I understand 
he feels now that I must address everything  he put forward  in his additional submissions in 
this final decision.  But, as I have already explained to Mr B, the fact that I gave him some 
additional time does not mean  I am obliged to (or should reasonably) consider new issues in 
this decision.   
In his response to my provisional decision Mr B says the following issues  have come to light  
 
the MOT test in December identified rear tyres are cracking, deteriorating and in 
need of imminent  change;
hes been told the tyres the car came with do not meet current  standards or the 
manufacturers specification - theyre the wrong  speed rating;  
he says this means the car was not roadworthy  when it was sold so his insurance 
and road tax were  void the whole time hes had the car; and 
hes just had to take out specialist insurance because the tyres are not to 
specification which cost just over £500.   
I can see Mr B has spoken to the several  third parties about  the tyres  - including the tyre 
manufacturer. Hes told me the tyre manufacturer said the tyres should be to the 
manufacturers specificationin this case the speed and rating would never be attained  on 
our roads but [the manufacturer] has specified  them. And if they were  winter tyres or 
special 5 star rated (Mr B says they are not) then they can be W rated and need further 
investigation.
I understand its come as something of a shock to Mr B to find the car has apparently  had 
the wrong tyres on since the outset. I share  his surprise as I can see he specifically asked a 
third party garage (L) to check the tyre specification (when it checked the car in January last 
year) and L said this was correct at that time. The garages that inspected the car 
subsequently dont seem  to have noticed the tyres  werent to specification either - nor did the 
independent expert  or the December  MOT.    
Ref: DRN48159595I realise Mr B wants me to make findings about  these matters  in this decision.  But I havent 
got enough evidence to fairly conclude there was something wrong with the tyres at the point 
of supply that has adversely affected Mr B or cause  him additional loss. I think  its likely to 
take some  time to investigate Mr Bs new concerns, in the way that hed like. And I consider 
it is fair that Northridge should have the chance to consider what Mr B has said and respond.  
Ive already found it is fair that Northridge should take this car back and pay any fee for 
cancelling relevant car insurance. The new information Mr B has provided doesnt make any 
difference to those  findings. And, if Mr B accepts my decision, he wont be troubled with the 
tyres any further - and Northridge will refund any administration fee Mr B is charged for 
cancelling the insurance. 
Taking everything into account,  I am not persuaded it would  be reasonable to delay this 
decision further - at this late stage.  And I cant fairly consider the new issues  referred to 
above. It remains open to Mr B to raise the new issues with Northridge and, if hes unhappy 
with the response, he may be able to bring  another complaint (about new issues  only)  to this 
service. 
I appreciate my conclusions will come as a disappointment both parties.  I know  Mr B, in 
particular, will probably feel let down.  But, hes not obliged to accept my decision - in which 
case it remains open to Mr B to seek to resolve  this matter by alternative  means  should  he 
wish to do so. 
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint. In full and final settlement I require 
N.I.I.B. Group Limited (trading as Northridge Finance) to
1.arrange to take the car back at no cost to Mr B; 
2.cancel Mr Bs finance agreement with nothing  further to pay;
3.refund  the initial deposit (recorded in the finance agreement as £2,750);
4.refund  50% of each monthly  payment  Mr B has made since  the car was supplied;
5.refund  £282.80  in fees Mr B has paid to obtain diagnostic checks and condition 
reports along with 2018 MOT test fee and any administration fee that Mr B has to 
pay to cancel or transfer his insurance  - on provision  of evidence to show these 
payments were made;   
6.pay interest at 8% simple  a year from the date of payment to the date of settlement 
on each of the refunds referred  to at above;
7.pay Mr B £350 for distress and inconvenience;  and 
8.remove any information  recorded  about the finance agreement from Mr Bs credit file. 
If Northridge considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr B how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Ref: DRN48159596Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48159597copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr B complains that a used car he acquired with a hire purchase  agreement  from N.I.I.B. Group 
Limited (trading as Northridge Finance)  is of unsatisfactory quality. 
background
Mr B got this car in late December  2017. He noticed several faults and contacted  the selling dealer 
(that Ill refer to as S) the next day. It was near Christmas  so S suggested Mr B take the car to 
dealership closer to home  to have it checked and alleviate any safety concerns. Mr B did that and the 
local dealer (that Ill call L) identified  several  issues. Mr B wanted to reject the car at first but he 
agreed to give S the chance to repair, after further discussion. 
S carried out some  remedial work  but the car battery  cracked while it was being  charged, leaking a 
substance that left a smell in the car. Northridge  says S offered to buy the car back  at this stage but 
Mr B was prepared to keep it if S arranged  a deep clean.  Mr B says S offered to get a settlement 
figure for the finance but he wasnt offered a proper refund.  
When Mr B got the car back he found some  faults were still present - S hadnt been able to replicate 
the suspension  issue so that wasnt fixed and there was a terrible  acrid smell, amongst other things. 
Mr B took the car back to L for further checks and said the knocking sound was still there and the 
tyre pressure  monitoring system doesnt work. 
Mr B thinks the car was of unsatisfactory quality  when he got it. He agreed (reluctantly) to give S the 
chance to repair but S has failed to do so. He wants to reject  the car now for a full refund and 
compensation.   
Our investigator didnt hear from Northridge initially so she issued her view with limited information. 
She was satisfied, from information Mr B provided, that the car was probably of unsatisfactory quality 
at the point  of supply and Northridge hasnt been able to repair  all of the faults.  She recommends 
Northridge should 
cancel the finance  and collect  the car at no cost to Mr B;
refund finance payments  from 2 January  2018, when Mr B first said he wanted to reject the 
car;
refund the deposit  plus 8% simple  interest a year from the date of payment  until the date of 
settlement;
remove any adverse  information from Mr Bs credit file; and 
pay £50 compensation for inconvenience caused. 
Mr B says hes incurred out of pocket expenses of about £600  for various diagnostic tests, road tax 
and insurance which should be taken into account.  
Northridge arranged for an independent expert to inspect the car in June. He found a knock in the 
suspension and the car would not be considered as of satisfactory quality. But, Northridge says 
this doesnt mean there was an inherent issue at the point of supply
the car was of satisfactory quality for a car of that age and mileage
it passed an MOT test in December  2017
S offered to take the car back  and provide a refund early on but Mr B chose to keep it and 
accept repairs
those  repairs were  carried out and Mr B has been able to drive  the car since
its unreasonable  to let Mr B reject  the car now.  
Northridge asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman for review.
Ref: DRN48159598my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Mr B acquired  this car with finance from Northridge  so Northridge was obliged to ensure  it was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. The level of quality that is to be considered satisfactory  
varies according to individual  circumstances.  But its generally considered reasonable to take the 
cars age, mileage and cost when it was supplied into account.
This car was eight years old with over just over 65,000  miles on the clock and cost over £14,000 
when Mr B got it. As such, I dont think Mr B could  reasonably expect the car to be fault free - as 
some parts are likely to be worn and need replacing  at some stage. 
I understand Mr B took some time and went to some trouble to find this car. He wanted this model but 
eventually chose this particular car - even though he could have paid less for similar elsewhere - 
because it was sold under  the manufacturers approved used scheme. 
This scheme  says approved used cars have  been  serviced in accordance with the manufacturers 
recommendations and undergo a stringent detailed technical inspection  and comprehensive road 
test before sale. I am satisfied this was a material  factor in Mr Bs decision to accept this particular  car 
and take out the finance. And I think its reasonable to take that into account here. 
I can see the car passed an MOT test shortly before it was supplied with no advisories. And I accept  
that shows it was roadworthy on the day of the test. But, I am not persuaded  this means  the car must 
have been of satisfactory  quality when Mr B got it - I think he reasonably expected the car to meet a 
somewhat higher standard than that.  
Theres no dispute that L identified the following issues when it checked the car shortly after Mr B got 
it 
stone  chips on front had been touched  up but are substandard - at least  one splitting and 
lifting
sill light on drivers side not working
tracking issues - full alignment recommended
noise from suspension  at lower speeds on rough  terrain  - road test and investigation 
recommended 
tyre pressure  system doesnt work  - needs investigation
poor valet pre sale
first aid kit out of date and used
battery doesnt seem  to hold power - current charge around  81%
Im satisfied some of these  at least  should reasonably be considered faults - notwithstanding the cars 
age and mileage. I appreciate Mr B wishes now that hed rejected the car outright last January  - under  
the short  term right to reject  provided by the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA). But, I think it was 
reasonable to give S the chance to repair in the circumstances. 
I accept S seems to have carried out some successful repairs but I am not persuaded it fixed 
everything. L says the suspension knock was still present in March.  When Mr B had the car checked 
again last June  by another third party,  it found 
both rear bottom shock absorber bushes showing signs of corrosion
both rear lower arm bushes split 
noise from NSF lower rear arm 
noise from steering  rack and vibrations  through steering  wheel - would require further 
inspection of steering  rack to clarify  exactly 
Ref: DRN48159599tyre pressure  monitoring system will not reset  - requires further diagnosis to clarify
the car has run flat tyres so caution is needed as the driver might not be aware of a flat tyre 
without the monitoring  system - which  is potentially unsafe. 
And the independent expert instructed by Northridge says the car is of unsatisfactory quality because  
he experienced  
   
a suspension knock
vibration through  the steering
the vehicle wanders slightly
air condition doesnt blow cold
slight movement in the anti-roll bar bushes and rear suspension arm bushes.
From the evidence  Ive seen  so far, I am satisfied this car was probably of unsatisfactory quality  when 
Mr B got it. I think  it was reasonable of Mr B to give Northridge the chance to repair. But, it looks as if 
Northridge has failed  to do so within  a reasonable time. I can see Mr B has experienced considerable  
inconvenience as a result. And I dont think he should have to keep this car any longer. I agree with 
our investigator that its fair and reasonable for Mr B to be allowed  to reject the car now and get his 
deposit back  with interest.
putting things right
I can see the car was off the road for some time in the early part of the year while S undertook some 
repairs. Mr B has confirmed he was supplied with an alternative vehicle and kept mobile throughout.  
And I dont think it would  be reasonable to require Northridge to refund all of Mr Bs monthly 
instalments in this situation.  
I know Mr B feels  very strongly that he should have nothing less than a complete refund here. He 
says the car is dangerous,  he takes it out as little as possible and he should  be put back in the 
position he would have been in if Northridge had not supplied it. 
I accept the third party that inspected in June mentioned the faulty tyre pressure monitor is a 
potential"  safety  issue - because the run flat tyres could  deflate  and the driver wouldnt know.  But, I 
note the independent expert doesnt say the car is not roadworthy  or it is unsafe. 
Where a business has done  something wrong  we will generally tell it to put things right by putting the 
consumer back in the position theyd have been in otherwise. But, its not my role to punish  Northridge  
- or any individual employee. I am satisfied Mr B has had some  use of this car and hes driving it still - 
albeit to a limited  extent. And I think it is reasonable to acknowledge that he would  have had to pay 
some transport costs, in any event. If Mr B hadnt  had this car it seems likely  he would have acquired  
another - in which case he would  have  paid for the cost of running that - including  road tax and 
insurance.
Im not persuaded  that Mr B should reasonably have all of his instalments back here. I do accept 
however that hes probably used this car less than he reasonably expected to. Mr B seems to have 
driven the car about 4,000 miles since he got it - although  I note he says about 500 of those were  the 
result of taking the car back  and forth to the dealer. 
As far as I can see Mr B has driven the car about half the average mileage  to be expected over the 
time hes had it. I think it is reasonable  he should pay something  for that. And I am minded  to find it is 
fair and reasonable for Northridge to refund 50% of each  monthly  payment made by Mr B to reflect  
the limited use hes had of it. 
I am not persuaded that Mr B should have the cost of insurance or road tax refunded - as I think he 
would probably have incurred these costs in any event. If Mr B has to pay a fee to cancel or transfer 
his insurance  as a result  of rejecting the car then I consider it fair that Northridge should refund  that - 
if Mr B supplies evidence  of the relevant payment.  
Ref: DRN481595910Theres clearly been some disagreement between Mr B and the dealer and Northridge about  whats 
wrong with this car. I dont think it was unreasonable  of Mr B to want to get his own diagnostic tests  
done in this situation. He wouldnt have had to do that if Northridge had not supplied  a faulty car - or 
taken the car back earlier. And I consider  it is fair and reasonable for Northridge to refund the related 
fees which  I understand amount to £82.80. 
I have considered everything that has happened here carefully.  I understand Mr Bs frustration and 
considerable disappointment in receiving  this faulty car after hed taken such  care to select  it. And I 
can see he feels let down by the after sales care he received from S in particular. But, I should make 
it clear that I am unable to hold Northridge responsible for that. 
I am satisfied  Mr B has experienced a good deal of upset  and inconvenience as a result of getting a 
faulty car and having to take it for repairs  and inspections. I dont think Northridge has helped in the 
way it responded  when Mr B complained and asked for help. And I am minded to find Northridge 
should pay Mr B £350 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience hes experienced. 
I realise these  provisional findings are likely  to disappoint  both parties. I invite Mr B and Northridge to 
consider what  Ive said and let me have  any further comments  or evidence by 19 November 2018.  
Then Ill consider everything again and make my final decision. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given above, subject  to any further comments  or evidence  I may receive from the 
parties by 19 November 2018 my provisional decision is I am minded to uphold this complaint. And I 
intend to require N.I.I.B. Group Limited (trading as Northridge Finance) to
1cancel Mr Bs finance  agreement with nothing further to pay
2arrange to take the car back at no cost to Mr B
3refund the initial deposit (recorded in the finance agreement as £2,750)
4refund 50% of each monthly payment Mr B has made since the car was supplied
5refund £82.80 in fees Mr B has paid to obtain reports in respect of the cars condition
6refund any administration fee that Mr B has to pay to cancel or transfer his insurance  on 
provision of evidence   
7pay interest at 8% simple  a year from the date of payment to the date of settlement on each 
of the refunds referred to at above
8pay Mr B £350 for distress and inconvenience
9remove any adverse  information recorded about the finance from Mr Bs credit file. 
Ref: DRN4815959