K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) sold to Mr S in 2003,  when  he 
was taking out an Egg Credit Card. A company called Canada Square  Operations  Limited is 
now responsible  for these  sales, so Ill be referring  to CSOL throughout this decision.
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in March  2018, setting out why I thought 
the complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  And I asked  both parties to provide any further 
submissions or information  to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Neither party  sent in any new information 
or arguments. So theres no reason  for me to change the findings I set out in my provisional 
decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about  being  mis-sold  PPI. And dont require Canada Square 
Operations Limited to pay any compensation. 
My understanding is Mr S has already received  some money back  for the commission 
Canada Square  Operations Limited received from selling him the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44574792summary  provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about  payment protection insurance (PPI) sold to Mr S in 2003, when he was taking 
out an Egg Credit  Card.  A company called Canada  Square Operations  Limited is now responsible for 
these sales, so Ill be referring to CSOL  throughout this decision.
background
I see that Mr S has already received some money back for the commission CSOL  received from 
selling him the PPI. Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint  about the PPI being 
mis-sold should also be upheld.  But CSOL doesnt agree  with this and the complaint has been passed 
to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and I have taken this into account in deciding this case.
As it stands,  Im not currently intending to uphold  Mr Ss complaint about  the mis-sale.
Mr Ss main  point of complaint is that he never agreed to the PPI and had no idea he had it. But these 
events were a long time ago and Im afraid I dont think Mr Ss recollections are correct.
I say this because Mr S initially thought hed bought the PPI via a telephone call. But CSOLs 
computerised records show this was an internet sale. Our experience is that most  Egg sales at that 
time were carried out over the internet and we also have access to the types of screens  consumers 
would have seen as they made their way through the online  application.
CSOL also sent us an example of the type of screen Mr S would have seen and this is compatible 
with others Ive seen myself  in dealing  with similar  complaints. This shows Mr S would have  been 
asked whether or not he wanted PPI during his online  application. And he wouldnt have  been able to 
navigate his way through to the next stage of the process without selecting  either  the yes or no 
options about  having the PPI.
Theres no dispute that PPI was added to his card account, so I think Mr S chose the online option to 
have it. I can also see from his credit card statements  that Mr S was then charged for the PPI in the 
months after he got his new credit card. The charge was described on his statements as CREDIT 
CARD REPAYMENT COVER and I think this was prominent. 
So although I completely understand why Mr S might not now remember agreeing  to the PPI, Im 
afraid the evidence shows he probably  did  and hed have  been able to see that such  a policy had 
been set up for him. I think  if Mr S hadnt wanted or agreed to the PPI, he would have asked CSOL  
what the charges  were  for.
On balance, I think  CSOL  properly got his consent for the PPI cover.
I dont think this was an advised sale. I think Mr S is likely to have completed his application in his 
own time and CSOL only needed to provide clear enough  information for him to do that. The example 
of the online page Ive referred to above contained a link to brief details about  the cost of the cover 
and the terms and conditions of the PPI policy. And whilst I acknowledge  that CSOL could have 
provided more  or better  information, I dont believe  this would have changed what Mr S actually did. 
However, our adjudicator thought something else might have  made  a difference. Mr S told us he had 
substantial savings in place at the time so the adjudicator  thought he wouldnt have wanted the PPI if 
Ref: DRN44574793things had been explained  better. So the adjudicator  asked to see some details of the savings, but we 
didnt get a reply from either Mr S or his representative. 
Given this was all such a long time ago, I dont think its unreasonable that weve  asked for this 
information to establish more clarity  about the savings Mr S says he had. Ill carefully look at any more  
evidence he can send us. In the meantime Ive looked carefully at Mr Ss job and I agree that it would 
have probably come  with good protection against sickness.  But Im afraid  none of this  in my view  
makes the PPI unsuitable for him. I think the evidence  quite strongly shows he himself  asked for the 
cover and would have  been  able to see it had been  set up on his account.  
The PPI would have  also paid off 10% of Mr Ss outstanding  credit card balance each month for up to 
a year if hed needed to claim which  I think would  have been useful for him. Based on all these  
thoughts, I dont currently think the policy was mis-sold.
my provisional  decision
Im not intending to uphold this complaint.  Subject to anything else Im sent I dont currently intend to 
ask Canada Square Operations Limited  to compensate  Mr S for the mis-sale.
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 1 April 
2019 after which I will issue a final decision.
Ref: DRN4457479