K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs S took out a PPI policy with a store account in 1996. She paid a monthly  amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint because:
On Mrs Ss credit agreement a box was marked with a pre-printed cross to indicate she 
wanted PPI. Based  on what  we know about  how FICL  sold PPI at the time, I think  its 
likely that the PPI was discussed with her before the credit agreement  was printed. And 
if she hadnt agreed  to PPI the box wouldve been left blank. Mrs S also had the 
opportunity to query  this before signing the credit agreement  if it didnt reflect what was 
discussed. So I think FICL made Mrs S aware that she had a choice about buying  the 
PPI, and that she chose to take it. 
 FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
I think  FICL couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it had, 
I think Mrs S would still have  bought it. 
Its possible  that FICL didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But Mrs S 
doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ss comments,  including what  shes said about being unaware of 
the commission element  of any premium she paid. But these  points dont change  my 
conclusion. The financial regulator  did recently  make new rules  about the disclosure of 
commission by lenders. But as FICL wasnt the lender  in this case, I dont think those rules  
apply. And I see no reason to recommend FICL  pay any refund to Mrs S. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2019.
Ref: DRN47590962Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4759096