K821x#15complaint
Ms K complains  about the rejection of her escape of water  claim, under her Prime Let policy,  
by Allianz Insurance Plc.
background
Ms Ks tenant informed  her that her kitchen ceiling was damp.  So Ms K arranged for a 
plumber to attend to find the source of the water leak.  He in turn suggested that Ms K call a 
builder to lift up the floor of the walk in shower.  When the builder did this, he discovered that 
the water  damage  was extensive. He said the leak was from the waste pipe under the tiled 
floor. Ms K subsequently reported the incident to Allianz. 
Allianz declined  the claim.  It said its loss adjuster was of the opinion  that the damage  was 
not consistent with an insured event. Allianz  believed the damage had been caused 
gradually with water  escaping through the bathroom tiles. Allianz also noted  that strip out 
works had been  carried  out prior to the loss adjusters visit. It said this had prejudiced the 
claim.  
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. But Allianz didnt agree, so the case  has been 
referred to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where there is a dispute about  whats 
happened, Ill reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened, in light of the evidence  that is available.  Having done this, I 
am also upholding the complaint and for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.  
On balance, I am satisfied  that Ms K has a legitimate claim. I believe there  is sufficient 
evidence available  to determine that Ms Ks property has suffered damage due to an insured 
event.   
Allianz argues  that this was not a one off escape of water; it had been going on for an 
extended period  of time. It may be right. Yet theres nothing to show  that Ms K was aware of 
it until her tenant reported the issue with the kitchen ceiling.  
It is my view that it is more likely than not that water was escaping  from the waste pipe under 
the bathroom floor. Im not persuaded that water  was getting through  the bathroom tiles. I 
say that because the photos Ive seen dont  indicate any problems with the tiles. Ms K could 
not reasonably  have  been aware of the leak. So its not fair of Allianz  to refer to a gradually 
operating cause.  
I do acknowledge Allianzs concerns  about  the strip out works that had taken place before its 
loss adjuster attended. But I dont necessarily  accept  that this means  the claim has been 
prejudiced. As I said earlier, I believe there is enough information  available  to establish,  on 
balance, that an insured  event has taken place and that this has caused  damage to Ms Ks 
property. And it seems to me that the works were necessary to establish the extent of the 
leak and the damage. I dont believe they were unreasonable steps for Ms K to take in order 
to try and mitigate her loss. 
Ref: DRN43224682my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about Allianz Insurance  Plc.
I direct  Allianz Insurance Plc to: 
Reimburse Ms K for the damage caused  to her building  by the escape of water, 
subject to the production of invoices, or receipts  for payment, by Ms K. 
Add 8% interest simple per annum on the payment amounts, from the date Ms K 
made the payments, to the date of settlement.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
  Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Allianz Insurance  Plc. deducts income tax from the interest it 
should tell Ms K how much  has been taken off.  Allianz Insurance Plc. should give Ms K a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4322468