K820x#14Complaint
Mr S1 and Mr S2 complain about  the way a fraud investigation was handled by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 24 March  2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought Barclays had dealt with the complaint 
fairly by refunding  the £100 it took from the account. I said that Barclays  had acted  in line 
with its conversation with Mr S2. I explained  that Mr S2 had told Barclays that Mr S1 had 
unsuccessfully tried to refund the £100. I invited both parties to respond with any additional 
comments or information they wanted me to take into account. 
Barclays responded to say it accepted  my provisional decision. Mr S1 responded to say he 
didnt accept my provisional decision and thought a further £100  gesture of goodwill would 
be a fair way to resolve his complaint. Mr S1 explained that he and Mr S2 had intended to 
use the disputed  £100 to offset their losses after a holiday let booking  was cancelled without 
warning. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken Mr S1s response to my 
provisional decision into account. 
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr S1 and Mr S2 but I havent been persuaded to change  the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  I understand  Mr S1s point that he wanted  
to use the £100 in question to offset  some of their losses. But I have to take the contents of 
the phone  call Mr S2 had with Barclays  into account. I wont  repeat the comments  I made in 
my provisional decision again,  theyre set out below, but Im satisfied Barclays  acted in line 
with the conversation it had with Mr S2 when it refunded the £100  in question. 
In addition, Mr S1 responded to say hed been given  incorrect  information  about  whether a 
refund had actually  been  issued. I accept that may be the case. But Barclays has 
compensated Mr S1 and Mr S2 by paying £100. Ive said above that I think  the £100 was 
legitimately refunded after Barclays spoke to Mr S2. Im satisfied the £100  they subsequently  
received fairly reflects the impact of the service provided by Barclays. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S1 and Mr S2 but I havent been persuaded to change the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision dated 24 March 2020.  I still think  the £100 
Barclays paid them is a fair way to resolve Mr S1 and Mr S2s complaint so Im not telling it 
to take any further  action.  
Ref: DRN49082012My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  because Barclays  Bank UK PLC has already 
paid a settlement  that is fair and reasonable. . 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S1 and Mr S2 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN49082013Copy  Provisional  Decision 24 March  2020
Complaint
Mr S1 and Mr S2 complain about  the way a fraud investigation was handled by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Background
On 9 October 2018 Barclays blocked  Mr S1 and Mr S2s accounts  after a third party raised  a 
dispute relating  to a £100 payment they received. Barclays  fraud  team opened an 
investigation. 
Mr S1 contacted Barclays after he was unable  to use his online banking  facility and was told 
his accounts had been blocked while an investigation was completed. A 10 day timescale 
was given by Barclays. 
On 17 October 2018 Mr S2 received a call from Barclays and says he was told the funds  had 
been returned to the payee. Mr S1 says he visited a branch later that day and the staff spoke 
with the fraud team on his behalf.  Mr S1 says he was told that the £100 had actually been 
placed in a suspense account  whilst  the matter was being investigated.  Barclays  later 
claimed that Mr S2 had given his permission  for the £100 to be returned to the payee but 
hes told us thats  untrue and that he didnt  consent.  
Over the following weeks Mr S1 continued  to contact Barclays because  he and Mr S2 were  
unhappy with its decision to refund the £100  which they say was legitimately owed.  Mr S1 
later complained. Barclays responded to the complaint on 21 November 2018 and said it had 
a systems note to show Mr S2 had consented to the refund. But Barclays  couldnt  locate a 
call recording  with that information so agreed to refund the disputed  £100 to the joint 
account. 
The complaint was referred  to our service and passed to an investigator. The investigator 
thought Barclays  had dealt with Mr S1 and Mr S2s complaint  fairly  so didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr S1 asked to appeal so the complaint has been  passed to me to make a 
decision. 
I reviewed the complaint  in full and issued  a provisional decision on 2 March 2020.  Within  its 
final response and file submission to this service, Barclays  said it didnt have a record  of 
Mr S2 giving  his consent for the payment to be returned.  I provisionally upheld the complaint 
and said I intended  to tell Barclays to pay Mr S1 and Mr S2 £100 because of the distress  
and inconvenience  caused. 
Barclays has since located a copy of the call with Mr S2 from 17 October 2018. I asked the 
investigator to forward a copy of the call to Mr S1 and Mr S2 so they could listen  to the 
conversation with Barclays. In its response to my provisional decision  Barclays  said the call 
recording showed Mr S2 had confirmed the disputed £100  would always have been 
returned. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN49082014I understand Mr S1 and Mr S2 will no doubt be somewhat  frustrated that Barclays  has only 
now provided a copy  of the relevant  call recording. But I have to take all available evidence  
into account when  making my decision.  Whilst I agree that the timing of Barclays  
submission is much  later than we would  normally expect, that doesnt impact the facts  of the 
complaint Mr S1 and Mr S2 have  asked our service to look into. 
In Barclays final response  dated 21 November 2018  it said it couldnt locate the relevant call 
recording where Mr S2 gave his consent  for the payment  to be returned.  Now all parties 
have had the chance to listen  to the call in question. 
During the call with Barclays fraud team,  Mr S2 explained that the £100 related  to a damage 
deposit for a holiday let. The person who had booked the holiday let had cancelled without 
notice and subsequently raised  a separate dispute  via an online payment provider. Mr S2 
said the cost of the holiday had already been refunded by the online payment provider. 
Mr S2 went  on to say that he and Mr S1 had tried to return  the £100 via the online payment  
provider but his attempt had been blocked.  Mr S2 also explained that they didnt have any 
other account details  to process a refund which is why the £100 hadnt  been returned. I 
agree that Mr S2 was clearly unhappy  with the situation, but he specifically advised that he 
and Mr S1 had already unsuccessfully attempted to return  the £100  damage deposit. 
Mr S1 says that he thinks Mr S2 made it clear that they wanted to retain  the £100 to offset  
their losses  from the cancelled booking. But Ive listened to the call several times and I didnt 
get that impression from what Mr S2 said. I heard Mr S2 give details of the dispute,  explain 
that he and Mr S1 were  taking it up with the online payment provider and that they had 
already tried to repay the damage deposit.  
Barclays said that it had already  taken the decision to refund the payment. But Im satisfied 
Mr S2 was aware of the decision  and he told Barclays that a refund of the £100 was 
intended in any case. 
Mr S1 says Mr S2 is in his late 60s and has asked why he wasnt  contacted as well. Mr S2 
gave clear answers to the questions he was asked  and appeared to be fully aware of the 
situation. I wouldnt expect Barclays to treat him any differently based  on his age. The 
account in question is held on a joint basis between Mr S1 and Mr S2. Both parties can give 
instructions separately. Theres no requirement under the account terms that says Mr S1 
and Mr S2 have to approve each others instructions  either  party can act. 
As a result of the new evidence Ive seen,  I no longer think it would be fair to direct  Barclays  
to increase the compensation it has awarded. Im satisfied  Barclays acted in line with the 
conversation it had with Mr S2. 
I also have to take into account  that Barclays has already paid £100 to Mr S1 and Mr S2 as it 
didnt find the call recording  in question before it issued the final response  on 
21 November 2018. That means there has been  no financial loss in this case  to Mr S1 and 
Mr S2. I know  they remain upset with the way the situation was handled  by Barclays but, as 
Ive said above,  I think the decision to refund the £100 was reasonable. I havent found  
Barclays made a mistake by issuing  the refund and it has already paid Mr S1 and Mr S2 
£100. Unless I see some new information  that changes  my mind,  my provisional  decision is 
that I dont  intend  to tell Barclays to take any further  action. 
Ref: DRN49082015My provisional decision
Taking the new information Ive seen into account,  my provisional decision is that I dont 
intend to uphold this complaint.
Mr S1 and Mr S2 and Barclays  have until 7 April 2020 to send me any additional information 
or comments they would  like me to consider before I issue  my final decision. 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4908201