K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that Bank of Scotland plc unfairly recorded a default on her credit file, 
which adversely affected her ability to secure a mortgage.
background
In November 2013 Miss D rang Bank  of Scotland (trading as Halifax) to arrange a temporary 
hold on her credit card repayments  as she would be briefly unemployed whilst moving from 
England to Scotland. She had missed one repayment at that point.  The adviser agreed to set 
up an informal repayment arrangement and told Miss D she should make  whatever 
repayments she could  afford whenever  she could afford to make them. Miss D would receive  
letters from the collections department, which she should keep for reference,  and her credit 
file would be affected.
Halifax failed to set up the arrangement and so Miss D rang again in January  2014  as she 
was continuing  to receive letters showing interest  and charges  added to her account despite 
having previously  been told this wouldnt happen. Halifax  apologised for its error in not 
correctly setting up the arrangement. The adviser  said she would refund all interest  and 
charges and set up the arrangement. Miss D agreed to make a token payment around the 
17th of each month.  She was told this would  affect  her credit file for 6 years and that she 
would receive a default letter. Miss D changed  her address to one in Scotland during this 
call.
Once again Halifax failed to set up the repayment  arrangement and Miss D had to ring again 
on 5 March 2014. Halifax refunded all interest  and charges,  said it would set the 
arrangement up again  for a period of 9 months;  that Miss D should pay £5 monthly; that her 
account would be transferred to recoveries and she would receive a default  notice and 
another letter that she should keep for reference, and that her credit file would be affected 
for the next 6 years.
During this call Miss D said she had received a letter from Halifax  (a default notice) dated 28 
February to her old address. The adviser  confirmed that this had been sent in error and 
agreed with Miss Ds statement that she could put it in the bin. 
Halifax recorded a default on Miss Ds credit  file on 9 April 2014,  and in July 2017  it sold her 
debt to a debt collector.
In September  2018 Miss D complained to Halifax that it hadnt contacted her for over 2 years  
about her account,  that it had sold her debt to a debt collector  without telling her and that it 
hadnt informed  her of its intention  to record a default on her credit file. She also complained  
about the poor customer service shed received and about the length  of time shed had to 
spend on the phone.
Halifax didnt uphold  her complaint about  the default,  but agreed its customer service had 
been poor. It therefore paid Miss D £66 compensation.
Miss D was unhappy with this response, the more so because she believed that the default  
had adversely affected the outcome of her mortgage application to Halifax  in October 2018. 
Miss D therefore brought her complaint to us.
Ref: DRN49720072In summary,  and having listened to the three  relevant phone calls between  Miss D and 
Halifax, our adjudicator didnt consider that the bank had treated Miss D fairly. As Halifax  
advisers had all led Miss D to believe that she could safely ignore the default notices, which 
were described as only being  for her records,  our investigator didnt think the bank should  
have recorded  a default on Miss Ds credit file.
Our investigator also thought that Halifax had acted unreasonably in selling the debt given 
that Miss D had maintained her agreed  repayments.
With respect to Miss Ds mortgage application, Halifax had provided  evidence that it had 
agreed Miss Ds application in principle, but she hadnt proceeded with it. Our investigator 
therefore didnt  believe that the default on Miss Ds credit file had adversely affected her 
application.
Having concluded  that Halifax had treated Miss D unfairly, our investigator recommended  
that the bank recall  the debt, remove the default from Miss Ds credit file and pay her £150 
compensation.
Halifax was unhappy  with these recommendations. In essence,  it believed that its February  
default notice  had been correctly sent and that at no stage had its advisers  told Miss D that it 
had been sent in error. It also considered that Miss D wasnt  in any position to make 
repayments as her declared outgoings exceeded her income. And although Miss D had 
recently told us that she would have sought help from her parents to repay  her debt if she 
had realised a default  was about to be recorded on her credit file, she had not made this 
point previously.
For her part Miss D maintained that the default had adversely affected her mortgage 
application. She agreed that Halifax had granted the mortgage in principle, but she said it 
had only done  so on condition that she provided  a larger  deposit  than she was able to do.
Miss D asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the core of this complaint is the recording by Halifax  of a default  on Miss Ds credit file and 
the question of whether this was fair and reasonable under the circumstances. I should say 
at the outset that I have listened to all three of the relevant phone  calls between Miss D and 
Halifax.
I am satisfied that Halifax sent Miss D a default  notice dated  28 February 2014 that she 
received, albeit that the bank incorrectly sent it to her old address. But when Miss D rang on 
5 March, because  it was apparent that Halifax had once again failed to set up the promised 
repayment arrangement, she was very clearly told that the letter of 28 February  had been  
sent in error and that it was fine to consign  it to the bin. In my view that default letter was 
therefore null and void, and I certainly would  not have understood from the advisers 
comments that Halifax was about  to act on the letter by recording a default.
In confirming that Halifax would for the third time set up the repayment  arrangement, the 
adviser said it would last for 9 months;  that it would affect Miss Ds credit file for 6 years, and 
Ref: DRN49720073that Miss D would receive a default notice  and another letter, both of which  would be sent to 
her for reference. The tone of this conversation was similar to the previous two in providing 
comfort to Miss D that the bank was happy  to agree a temporary repayment arrangement 
with her and that she could safely put to one side formal letters that it was nevertheless  
required to send. Halifax has said it didnt  in fact send the default notice, although it sent a 
letter confirming the arrangement to pay.
Where customers  fall behind with repayments   usually  for at least 3 to 6 months  - banks will 
generally send  a default notice. This requires  customers to take some  action if they wish to 
avoid the default. Sometimes  banks will require  full and immediate repayment,  but many  will 
be prepared to enter into a repayment arrangement and hold off from registering a default  for 
some months to monitor the situation. And following Miss Ds discussions  with Halifax I 
consider it entirely  reasonable that this is what she believed to have happened here, albeit  in 
reverse i.e. the repayment  arrangement was agreed before issuing the default notice, which  
was nevertheless sent to regularise matters. 
I have also considered whether it was reasonable for Halifax to have sent a default  notice 
with the alacrity it did. Miss D had not missed  a payment until she rang the bank on 26 
November 2013  to explain that she was moving to Scotland. The adviser seemed unable to 
understand Miss Ds explanation of her position although it was perfectly clear to me. She 
was no longer working full time but temping for the next 4 weeks.  And although she would 
be earning enough to cover  her essential outgoings  she didnt think  shed  have any spare 
money to make her monthly credit card payment.
The adviser was plainly  working  to a script and in determining a repayment  arrangement  
pressed Miss D for income figures  that she struggled to provide. The nature of her work 
meant that her earnings were not only unpredictable  but largely unknown.  The adviser put 
Miss D under considerable pressure to provide figures, which  she eventually did, and the 
result was that her outgoings appeared to exceed her projected  income  by some margin. 
Taken at face value  this meant  that Miss D would  struggle to make any repayments.  But it 
was clear to me that the figures she provided didnt form a reliable basis for agreeing 
anything other than a short term arrangement given that she would be moving very soon and 
expected then to be back in full time employment. In my opinion  it was therefore incumbent  
on Halifax to follow up on its discussion once she had moved, which she had by early  
January 2014,  and certainly to have  done  so before taking the decision to issue a default 
notice.
In all three calls Miss D was told that the arrangement to pay would be recorded  on her 
credit file for 6 years, and it is therefore this information that Id reasonably  have expected 
Halifax to have recorded. 
Miss D had a good credit  record until the missed repayment, and having agreed a 
repayment arrangement  she not only maintained those repayments but increased them in 
early 2016.  But Halifax nevertheless sold her debt in July 2017. Miss D has said the bank  
didnt tell her that it intended to do so. Halifax doesnt seem sure whether it did or didnt,  
because in its complaint  response to Miss D of October 2018  it apologised for not writing  to 
her about  the sale, but it has separately  told us that it did send Miss D a letter. However, in 
my view it matters  little, because I dont think that the bank should have sold the debt. I 
consider that the default was unfairly recorded, and Miss D had also maintained her agreed 
repayments. 
Ref: DRN49720074Miss D believes  that the default meant  that although Halifax  approved her mortgage  
application in principle it wanted  a larger deposit  from her than it might otherwise have done. 
For its part Halifax has said that Miss D applied online without specifying a deposit and so its 
in principle approval of her application did not take that into account. 
Lenders are entitled to determine their own criteria in assessing whether they wish to lend to 
customers and on what basis, and they take a range  of factors  into account. Halifax  did 
check Miss Ds credit  file in assessing  her application and will no doubt have noted the 
default. But of course  Miss D would not have  had a clear credit file in any event because  in 
the absence of the default her arrangement to pay would have been recorded.  Given  this I 
cannot reasonably  conclude  that without the default Halifax  would have made an improved 
mortgage offer to Miss D.
Miss D complains that she has received poor service  from Halifax  in dealing  with her credit 
card repayment arrangements, and I agree that she has. 
And so to summarise, my judgment is that Halifax didnt properly notify Miss D of its intention 
to record a default and it was therefore unreasonable  for it to have done so. It should then 
not have sold her debt to a third party given the absence of a default and that Miss D was 
maintaining her agreed repayments. And overall it has provided  poor customer  service for 
which a payment of £150 would be fair and reasonable compensation.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I require Bank of Scotland plc to:
recall Miss Ds debt;
remove the default from Miss Ds credit  file, and
pay Miss D £150 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4972007