K820x#14complaint
Mr G and Ms M complain about charges  applied  to their current  account by TSB Bank  plc. 
background
Mr G and Ms M had a joint account with TSB that incurred fees and charges between 
May 2017 and October 2018  when  there  wasnt enough money to cover  payments which  
were due. 
Mr G complained and TSB responded on 21 March  2018. TSB said it wrote to Mr G and 
Ms M when charges were due. The details of upcoming charges were given in their 
statements. TSB said Mr G and Ms M had access  to internet banking as well. TSB said it 
had sent text messages but it was ultimately the responsibility of the account holders to 
make sure there was enough money to cover upcoming payments and charges.  
Mr G and Ms M referred their complaint to our service and an adjudicator  looked  at what had 
happened. They thought  TSB had applied  the charges correctly so didnt ask it to refund 
them. Mr G and Ms M didnt accept the adjudicators  view so the complaints been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the adjudicators explained,  businesses  are allowed to charge  account holders if items 
are returned  unpaid or if they enter into an unarranged overdraft. I can see that TSB charged 
Mr G and Ms M several times between May 2017 and September 2018 but each time it was 
because they didnt have enough  money  to cover  payments due from their account.  Ive 
looked at the current  account terms and can confirm those charges were applied  correctly by 
TSB. 
Mr G says he didnt received text messages from TSB about their account. But TSBs  
provided systems evidence to show it did send text messages about the joint account. I 
understand Mr G says these messages werent  received so he wasnt aware of the account 
balance. However,  TSB sent Mr G and Ms M regular monthly statements and has confirmed 
they had access  to online banking. Theres nothing in the account terms that says TSB will 
only charge a fee if its sent a text message about  the account balance  first. And the 
statements TSB sent gave advance notice  of the date a charge  was due to be collected. Im 
satisfied Mr G and Ms M were able to check their account to ensure there was enough 
money in it to meet payments and charges. 
Mr G says he didnt receive TSBs  complaint response dated 21 March  2018 but Ive seen a 
copy and its correctly  addressed. I dont  know  why Mr G and Ms M didnt receive this letter 
but Im satisfied it was sent by TSB shortly after the complaint was raised. 
Ref: DRN42682202Im sorry  to disappoint Mr G and Ms M but I havent seen any evidence  that TSB has 
incorrectly or unfairly charged  their account. I appreciate Mr G says he didnt receive TSBs 
text messages but there  were other  ways available  to check the account  balance. Im 
satisfied TSB responded to the complaint in writing on 21 March 2018.  As I havent found 
any evidence of a mistake by TSB Im not telling it to take any further  action to resolve  this 
complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 June  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4268220