K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) didnt settle her claim fairly when her car 
was written off in an accident.
background
Miss M insured her car with UKI. In 2015  she bought a brand new car and switched  her 
insurance over to the new car. Less than a year later, she was involved in an accident in 
which her car was badly  damaged. So she made a claim to UKI.
UKIs engineer assessed the car. The damage was serious and extensive. Including parts 
and labour, the engineer  estimated it would cost over £8,700 to repair  the car. 
Theres a term in the policy conditions that, in certain circumstances, allows  a car written off 
or stolen  in the first year to be replaced  with a new one. But one of the conditions  of the term 
is that the repair costs  have to be at least 60% of the current list price.  As the list price was 
just over £16,800, the repair  costs were only 52% of the list price  and so Miss M didnt 
qualify for this term. Instead,  UKI offered the current market  value  of the car, which  it said 
was £11,180.
Miss M complained. She said the 60% restriction wasnt fair. She said the new car cover was 
included on UKIs  website as a key feature of the policy  but the 60% wasnt  mentioned.  If 
shed known there was that limit, shed have  taken out GAP insurance to make sure she got 
the full value of a new car. As it was, UKIs settlement wasnt enough for her to pay off the 
finance on the car, so she has to pay the finance and pay for a new car. She said the 
purpose of insurance  was to indemnify her against her losses, and UKI hadnt done  that. 
Our investigator thought UKI had assessed  Miss Ms claim fairly and in line with the policy.  
Miss M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  term of Miss Ms policy says
If your car is less than one year old and you are the first and only registered owner, 
we will replace it with one of the same make and model if it has  suffered damage  
covered by the policy and the cost of repairing it is more than 60% of the last United  
Kingdom list price (including taxes).
Terms like this arent unusual in insurance policies and I dont think  its unfair of itself.  No 
insurance policy covers every eventuality, and whats covered  depends  on the terms of the 
policy. As Miss M says,  there are policies and products such as GAP  insurance that will pay 
out a fixed value in all or most circumstances. But this policy isnt one of those.
Ive looked at the relevant  section  of UKIs  website. It mentions the new car cover as one of 
the features  of its comprehensive insurance. The website  doesnt mention the 60% 
limitation. But this section isnt a complete guide  to the full terms and conditions, and doesnt  
suggest that it is. Its an at a glance  overview of the main features, and its purpose is to 
Ref: DRN46522292advertise the policy, not act as a detailed guide. Theres  a link to the full terms and 
conditions on the website  and the terms do include the 60% limitation.
The advert on the website isnt part of the contract between  Miss M and UKI. Even if it was 
misleading, UKI put that right by giving Miss M the full terms, including  the 60% limitation. 
The absence of the 60% limit from the advert doesnt, in my view,  mean UKI isnt entitled to 
rely on it. And, if as Miss M says it was, this feature was important to her when she first took 
out the policy and influenced  her decision to rely on it and not buy GAP  insurance, Id have 
expected her to check the policy documents to make sure it really did offer her the cover she 
wanted  not simply to have relied  on an overview advert. As it is, Miss M didnt  take GAP  
insurance or a fixed cost policy, and its not for me to turn this policy into one; all I can do is 
assess whether UKI dealt  with the claim  in line with its terms.
The terms and conditions  say that in the event of an accident leading  to the car being written 
off as not economic to repair, UKI will pay the current market  value   unless the new car 
cover term applies.
To work out the market  value and the list price, its good practice to consult the motor 
industry valuation  guides.  We generally  think they provide the most accurate and reliable 
valuations, and in this case theyre  what UKI used. The list price  is the price  that could  be 
expected to be paid for a new car off a forecourt at the date of the accident.  And the market 
value is the price Miss Ms car was worth, bearing in mind  its age and mileage at the time.
Ive checked the valuations  myself, and based on the make  model  and mileage, at the time 
of the accident  I found Miss Ms car was worth  just over £10,000 in one guide and just under 
£11,000 in another, with a retail  price of around  £16,800. UKI found very similar figures  to 
the higher market value I found,  and decided it would  offer £11,180 as the market value.
I think the method  UKI used to find the list price of a new car at the time, and the market 
value of Miss Ms car at the time,  was reasonable and in line with good industry practice.
Ive also looked  at the engineers report UKI considered to determine the cost of repair.  Its 
comprehensive and detailed. Because no repair was attempted, it was only an estimate.  Its 
possible that if a repair was actually carried out the actual cost would have been slightly 
higher or lower depending on how the work  went and whether additional issues were found. 
But I dont have any evidence to suggest the report is unreliable in estimating the cost of the 
works.
Based on the list price  and the estimated costs  of repair, UKI is right that the repair  cost is 
only 52% of the list price.  Thats  less than 60%, which means  Miss Ms car falls outside the 
scope of the new car cover,  and in all the circumstances, I dont think  UKI acted unfairly  in 
deciding not to pay the claim  on that basis. 
If the new car cover doesnt apply, then the policy says UKI should offer the market  value,  
and thats what  it did.
I do understand how upset and frustrated  Miss M is. Shes been very unlucky, and as a 
result has lost her car and is still liable for the finance. But for the reasons Ive set out above, 
I dont think it was unfair for UKI to conclude that she was only covered for the market value 
as at the date of the accident   not the full cost of a new car.
Ref: DRN46522293my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 February  2019. 
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4652229