K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream and as Drafty, lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
background
Gain Credit LLC altered its trading names  Lending  Stream  and Drafty  and so for this 
decision I refer to it as Drafty  for convenience.
Drafty offered a credit  facility which commenced with a limit being determined and then the 
customer was able to draw down the amounts he or she requires. The credit was unsecured  
and had no fixed duration. Mr L applied for loans  and was granted  credit  accounts which are 
different in nature to loans.
Draftys records  show that Mr L applied for a £2,000 loan in November 2015. Mr L declared 
a monthly income  of £2,100 with outgoings of £675.  Drafty says that it carried out credit 
checks. The credit limit for Mr L for the first account  was arranged to be £1,000. Mr L repaid 
this on 21 September  2016. 
Seven months  later Mr L applied for another loan for £2,200. He declared a monthly income  
of £2,400 and expenditure  of £950.  Drafty says it did credit checks. It approved  a facility for 
Mr L of £1,920 on 30 April 2017.  
Mr L informed Drafty  he was making  a complaint about irresponsible lending in 
November 2017.  He asked for account details and Drafty sent to him some details. Drafty  
seemed to have  treated this as an informal request for details. Mr L told Drafty he was in 
financial difficulties in April 2018.  It suspended  his account  and in June 2018 his formal  
complaint about  irresponsible lending  was received by Drafty. Mr L had tried to complain 
earlier but he had changed his email  address  and so Drafty did not recognise it and was not 
able to proceed until his new email  address  was confirmed.  A repayment arrangement was 
set up in June  2018. There was an outstanding balance on this account  and that may still be 
the case.  
Each of the credit  agreements (clause 5) set out the total cost of the credit  based on some 
assumptions to illustrate the likely cost to Mr L. For Account 1, on the assumption that Mr L 
drew down the full £1,000 on the first day and then repaid  it over 12 months in equal  
instalments then the total amount payable would have been just over £1,368.  This would 
have equated  to about £114 a month.   
For Account 2 on the assumption that Mr L drew down the full £1,920 on the first day and 
then repaid it over 12 months in equal instalments then the total amount payable would have 
been just over £2,606. This would  have equated  to about £217 a month.  
 
The arrangement did include  a Billing Cycle which meant that a statement was produced  
ten days before Mr Ls salary payment date, and it gave the minimum payment required for 
that cycle. It had to be the higher of certain  calculations in the agreement  at clause 6 which 
I have not set out here. 
A Continuous Payment  Authority was used to take the minimum payments on or near Mr Ls 
monthly salary date. Other ways of payment  were  made available.  
Ref: DRN42577622One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought that Draftys initial  approval  for 
Account 1, and the monitoring of Account 1 was satisfactory. For Account 2 he thought that 
the initial approval of the facility was appropriate, but that Drafty ought to have monitored  the 
account more  closely. And that Drafty  ought to have realised that Mr L was struggling from 
January 2018  and so he thought that it should  put things right from 31 January 2018.
Neither Mr L nor Drafty have responded. The complaint remains outstanding and has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the credit  was offered.
Before lending money to a consumer or approving a credit limit a lender should  take 
proportionate steps to understand whether  the consumer will be able to repay what  they are 
borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely  impacting  on their financial situation.  
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
key element was that any checks needed  to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including how much was being lent and when  the sum being  
borrowed was due to be repaid. 
I have seen a copy of Mr Ls personal credit file dated January 2020  which  would cover the 
period relevant for this complaint. I have  seen copies of his bank statements for most of 
these lending periods. 
I need to explain  to Mr L that upon first approaching Drafty in November 2015  it would not be 
expected, and would not be proportionate, for Drafty to carry out a full and comprehensive 
financial review. Mr L was a new customer.  And bearing in mind the credit limit granted  for 
Account 1 and the monthly payments required to repay the facility within a reasonable 
period, Drafty was entitled to rely on the information given to it which suggested that Mr L 
had enough disposable income to service a credit facility with a limit of £1,000. And it carried 
out its own credit search. I do note that Mr L asked for £2,000 and this was not approved.
Having looked  at all that Mr L has given me and Draftys information and submissions then 
I think that the initial credit facility  approval  for Account 1 was carried out after checks 
I would consider to have  been proportionate.  And the limit approved was likely to have 
appeared serviceable and able to be repaid within a reasonable time. 
Mr L drew down once at the beginning - £1,000  and then just a couple  of times after that 
(small amounts) and repaid it all within a year. So, I consider that the facility ran as it would 
have been envisaged to run and the monitoring of the account  by Drafty for that period 
would not have alerted it to any issues. I do not uphold  the complaint for Account 1. 
The seven month gap after repaying Account 1, before Mr L applied  for Account 2 does lead 
me to think  that Drafty was able to approach that new application as if Mr L was a fresh 
customer. That period of non-lending to Mr L was a large enough  gap to break  the lending  
relationship. So, as I have explained earlier, in April 2017  it would  not be expected,  and 
Ref: DRN42577623would not be proportionate, for Drafty to carry out a full and comprehensive financial review  
of Mr Ls finances  before  lending. 
Having looked  at all that Mr L has given me and Draftys information and submissions then 
I think that the initial credit facility  approval  for Account 2 was carried out after checks 
I would consider to have  been proportionate.  And the limit approved was likely to have 
appeared serviceable and able to be repaid within a reasonable time.
I refer to the Financial  Conduct Authority Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) chapter 6 
which addresses the expected Business Practices in relation to the monitoring of an 
account. Drafty did have  to monitor Mr Ls account.
I think that after several months following April 2017  it would have  been  apparent  to Drafty 
that Mr L was not making any inroads into the debt as he was almost always  repaying  the 
minimum amount and then drawing  down to the maximum available to him. This gives  me 
the appearance  that Mr L was borrowing to cover  the hole that making these payments was 
leaving in his finances. By November 2017  his credit  limit had been increased once to 
£2,120 from £1,920 and his account balance  was still at the top end of that limit. 
I have seen that in late December 2017  Mr L contacted Drafty using the email that was 
registered with it for his accounts. He wrote  to its complaints department  at Lending  Stream.  
He said I am making a complaint  to you about  irresponsible lending. To help me explain  the 
details, I would like a list of my loans, showing when they were taken out and how much  was 
repaid when.  
On 1 January  2018 Drafty customer  service  replied and sent him information about one of 
the accounts, but not both and it was not in the format of a formal response letter. It said that 
he had an outstanding balance of £2126.50 (as of today) which was 1 January 2018.
Later, Mr L did try to complain further, but was using a different email  account and so Drafty 
replied many times to say  quite rightly   that it was not able to respond to an email  address 
not registered to him as its customer.  Then  in April 2018 Mr L telephoned Drafty  to say that 
he was in financial difficulties and the account was suspended. In-between  his first complaint 
and his telephone call to say he was not able to manage the account, Drafty  had increased  
his credit limit. 
But I do think that Drafty had been  alerted to the fact that Mr L was making a formal  
complaint in December 2017. This together with Mr L not making any inroads into the credit 
balance over the nine months to the New Year 2018 leads me to think  that the credit limit 
increase on 31 January  2018 was inappropriate. And the drawdowns  from 31 January 2018  
(£42.20) and then 15 February  2018  (£200) when the credit limit had been increased  ought 
not to have been allowed. Any after that ought  not to have been  approved.   
So I think that by continuing to offer the credit facility, Mr L was exposed to additional interest 
charges. And from the drawdown  of 31 January 2018 and all those after it, I think that Drafty 
should put things right as follows:
calculate the amount of all interest  and charges  Mr L paid on those new drawdowns 
from 31 January 2018;
write off any unpaid interest charged  from that same date;
rework the sums  paid such that on or after 1 February 2018 any amounts paid to the 
account are applied to the reduction  of the principal;
Ref: DRN42577624arrange for any outstanding balance to be paid off by agreeing a mutually agreeable 
and affordable repayment plan. I would expect Drafty to take Mr Ls current financial 
situation into account when setting the repayment amounts;
once the debt has been  repaid then amend  the credit file to remove  any adverse 
payment information  for that second  Account.
As I understand that the outstanding  balance is quite high then I do not think  any surplus is 
likely. If there is a surplus due to Mr L then this needs to be with the added 8% annual  
simple interest*.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr L a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part and direct  that Gain Credit LLC 
trading as Drafty do as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before  12  June  2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4257762