K820x#14complaint
Ms D has complained about Skyfire Insurance Company Limiteds service following a claim 
being made against her motor insurance policy.
Reference to Skyfire includes its agents.
background
In October  2018 Skyfire  emailed Ms D to say that another  insurer had told it Ms D had been 
at fault for an accident. Ms D rang Skyfire and told it she hadn't been  in an accident.  Skyfire 
sent an independent engineer to examine Ms Ds car. He examined  the car four days  later.  
On the same  day the other insurer said that it had made a mistake with the registration of the 
car involved in the accident and it wasn't Ms Ds car. Skyfire  removed  any record of the 
claim from Ms Ds insurance record.
Ms D bought her complaint about Skyfires handling  of the matter  to us. Our adjudicator  
didn't think  Skyfire had done anything wrong. Ms D didn't agree so her complaint's been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
I can understand how stressful and frustrating Ms D found being  accused of being  at fault for 
an accident when  she knew  he hadn't been in one. But I dont think this was Skyfires fault. I 
think it was reasonable  for Skyfire to get Ms Ds version of events before it decided  whether 
or not to defend the claim.  Until it had contacted her it couldn't know for certain whether 
shed been in the accident or not.
But, as well a contacting Ms D, Skyfire  wrote to the other insurer to defend the claim and to 
try to get further  details of the allegations.  It also instructed an independent engineer to 
inspect Mr Ds car. I think that was the right thing to do. That's because  if an engineer could 
confirm that there was no signs of damage to Ms Ds car and no sign of recent repair then 
that would  be compelling evidence with which Skyfire could defend the claim.  Ms D sent 
Skyfire images of her car to show it hadn't been  damaged. But Im aware that most insurers, 
and indeed the courts, would find an independent engineers report  more  persuasive than 
pictures taken by a policyholder. And I can see that Skyfire took action to arrange an 
engineers inspection as quickly as it could.  I think that was reasonable. And only days  later 
Skyfire confirmed that the complaint had been closed down and removed from Ms Ds 
insurance history.
Ms D said that Skyfire told her that her car wouldn't be insured  until the engineer  had 
inspected her car. But I think she's  mistaken.  I've listened to the relevant calls and I haven't 
heard Skyfire give Ms D any indication  that her car would be uninsured pending the 
engineers report.  So it's not clear  why Ms D believed that was the case,  but I don't think  it 
was because of anything that Skyfire  did. 
Ref: DRN43485122As I've said above I do understand that Ms D was both unhappy and put to some 
inconvenience because  Skyfire needed to be able or defend  the claim. But I don't think that it 
did anything unfair  or unreasonable.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4348512