K820x#14complaint
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial  Insurance Company Limited 
(FICL), as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep 
things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Mrs C complains that FICL mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in September 2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was not intending  to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I 
asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision.
Neither Mrs C nor FICL  responded with anything further for me to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable.  
As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached  the same conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision, for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019. 
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Its been agreed  in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller in my decision.
Mrs C complains that FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy attached to a store  card which  Mrs C took out in 1997.
Ref: DRN42566902Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. FICL disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Having done so, Im currently intending to not uphold it for reasons that Ill now explain.  
Mrs C has said she was unaware PPI was added  to her store card.  FICL has provided a copy of 
the card application Mrs C signed for her store card. Theres a section titled Payment and 
Purchase Protection which also details what  the cover is for. I can see there is an option to tick 
to take PPI and I can see it has been ticked in Mrs Cs application  which  indicates she wanted 
the cover.  And there is nothing here to indicate that she had to tick in this section  if Mrs C 
didnt want PPI she didnt have to tick to take it.
I dont  know what was discussed at the time but as Mrs C was agreeing  to additional credit,  I 
would have expected her to have read the form and raised any questions she had at the time 
before signing in agreement with it.
So based on the evidence Ive been provided, I think its most likely  Mrs C knew at the time 
that the PPI was optional and that she decided  to take it. But I can understand why she might 
not recall this now, as the sale took place over 20 years ago.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt need  to check that it was suitable, given  her 
circumstances at the time. But it did need to ensure  that she was given enough information to 
decide whether she wanted  to take it. Although I dont know what was said to her then, I think  its 
likely that the information  she received about the PPI could have been better than it was. But I 
dont think better information would have changed her mind  about  taking the cover and Ill explain 
why.
Mrs C appears to have  been  eligible for the policy. Mrs C has said she had a pre-existing 
medical condition at the time of sale. Ive thought about this carefully.  The policy wouldve 
meant Mrs C couldnt have  made a claim for her pre-existing medical condition.  But Mrs C 
has told us that the condition didnt affect  her day to day life and we havent been told if she 
had any time off work because  of it. I asked Mrs Cs representatives for further information  
about Mrs Cs pre-existing  medical condition but nothing further was provided. So based on 
what I know, Im satisfied the policy was suitable for her as it wouldve covered her if she was 
off work ill for other conditions unrelated to her pre-existing medical condition.  Mrs C was not 
affected by any of the other exclusions  or limitations.
Mrs C says she didnt  need  the PPI. She has said she would  have received one months full sick pay 
as well as having some savings. However, for no more  than £1.00  per £100 of the outstanding  
monthly balance the PPI wouldve paid out up to 15% of Mrs Cs outstanding  monthly balance, until 
she returned  to work or the outstanding  balance had been paid off. This wouldve paid out in addition 
to her sick pay and longer  than it would have lasted. And it wouldve  allowed  her to use any savings 
she had for other expenses, or keep them intact for the future. So I think she would have valued the 
extra security  which the policy gave  her if things  went  wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy  was unaffordable for Mrs C. And as the policys premiums 
were paid monthly, she could have cancelled  it if it no longer met her needs.
Ref: DRN42566903Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4256690