K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
March 2001 when Mr and Mrs F were arranging  additional borrowing to go with their existing 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs F say The Co-operative Bank Plc (The  Co-op), then trading as 
Britannia Building Society, mis-sold  them PPI. 
The PPI provided  cover for unemployment  only and covered Mr F, but not Mrs F. 
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs Fs circumstances  at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information  here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative  disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt  raise  
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Fs. I havent  set out that detailed  
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Fs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 I think The Co-op made it clear that Mr and Mrs F didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out. I say this because Mr F filled out and signed a separate 
application form to take out the cover. On that form, I see Mr F answered some 
questions to check he was eligible for the cover and gave  his preference for when he 
could make a claim after becoming  unemployed as well as the benefit period he 
wanted to have. He left the section about accident  and sickness  cover blank. Ive 
also seen that Mr F signed a separate direct debit instruction for the PPI to be taken 
from his bank  account. All of this suggests  that Mr and Mrs F took the time to 
Ref: DRN47593512consider the type of cover and the level of protection  they wanted to have  and then 
decided to go ahead with it. 
 The Co-op didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs F - so it didnt have to check that 
the PPI was right or suitable  for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs F enough 
clear and timely information  so they could  decide for themselves if it was right for 
them.
 Its possible the information The Co-op  gave  Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been.  But Ive found  that they chose to take it out - so it looks 
like they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. 
Although Mr F told us about a medical condition  hed had in around 1970 and then a 
further condition  that was diagnosed  in around 1980, I dont think  better  information  
about the policys medical condition exclusion wouldve caused him to change his 
mind about taking out the policy for either  of these conditions. I say this taking into 
account that the PPI only provided cover  for unemployment  not if he couldnt work 
due to accident or sickness. And Ive kept in mind that Mr F had treatment for the first 
condition whilst  the second  one only led him to take an occasional  day off work. So I 
dont think Mr and Mrs F wouldve  acted any differently had they known more  about 
the exclusion.  
 It also looks like the policy was affordable  so it seems like it would have  been  
useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs F 
would have  declined the cover had The Co-op  done anything more.
 While  the policy contained on claims relating  to back and mental  health  conditions,  
this wouldnt have  been relevant in Mr and Mrs Fs case  given that Mr F chose  to buy 
PPI cover for unemployment only. So in light of Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the 
time of sale and despite its exclusions,  the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them. So I think they would  have still thought they had some  good 
reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs F would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting, and I think  the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that they would have  taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Fs representative  has raised a number  of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant The Co-op should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance  of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Fs representative  has not said how these points apply to the specific  facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Fs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Fs particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
Ref: DRN47593513reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means  The Co-op doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs complaint   so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 September 2021.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4759351