K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with his home emergency insurance policy. 
background
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
engineers and others insofar as I hold that company responsible for their actions.
On about 11 October  2018 Mr J called British Gas for help with his central heating boiler. 
British Gas said that the flue had its terminal missing  and this had caused  the boiler to get 
wet. 
Mr J complained that British Gas gave him conflicting information about  what the policy  
covered. At first it said he had to pay to remove part of his roof in order to take make access 
to his flue. Later it said that  as the flue was more  than a metre  long - he would have to pay 
for a new one. 
British Gas replaced the flue  free of charge - even though it was longer than a metre. 
At first our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that 
British Gas shouldnt  have asked Mr J to make  access. He had said that  to make  access  
through his roof and to reinstate it  Mr J paid £860.00 but he had not received a receipt.  
The adjudicator recommended that British  Gas should pay Mr J £430.00 compensation 
based on 50% of the access costs.
British Gas disagreed  with the adjudicators initial opinion.
Our adjudicator changed his opinion. He didnt recommend that the complaint should  be 
upheld. He thought that - if British Gas had given the correct  advice  - the cost of making  
access was something Mr J wouldve  still had to pay. By replacing the flue free of charge 
British Gas put him in a better financial position.
Mr J disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says,  in summary, that:
After British Gas recommended work  in 2016  he got someone to come  & do the job 
privately at a very reasonable price. British Gas visited in 2016, 2017 and 2018 and 
didnt say anything  was wrong.
In 2016 he had open heart surgery, followed by a stroke.  During 2016, 2017 he and 
his family  were busy with his physiotherapy.
British Gas treated  him and his wife very badly.  From  18 October 2018 until 4 
December 2018 they were  without a working gas boiler,  causing  them  physical 
discomfort.
They made around 100 calls to British Gas during that period.  The British Gas 
customer service  staff made  at least 7-8 different appointments. They were so 
disgusted that they put Mr and Mrs J on the priority list. 
Ref: DRN48142412British Gas did not keep their appointments and whenever an engineer  came  it was 
with no parts.
British Gas says the replacement  flue cost over £800.00. But it did the job in less 
than 45 minutes. 
Mr J and his wife suffered discomfort and distress. They had to take 8 days off work.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covered repair or replacement of certain  parts. It also covered making access  and 
making good - up to a limit of £1,000.00.
The policy terms covered  repairing  or replacing  a faulty flue  but not if it was over 1 metre  in 
length. I dont  think that means that British  Gas had to replace a flue over 1 metre  with a flue 
shorter than 1 metre.  
The policy didnt cover design or installation  faults.
For faults that werent covered,  British Gas didnt have to do a repair or replacement - or to 
make access or make good.
From its work history  I see that in December 2016 and March 2017  British Gas told Mr J 
about the missing  flue terminal  and the need  to have this corrected. 
Mr J has said that he contacted the flue installer  who refitted it. But he says he no longer has 
any documentation to show  this. I accept that British Gas made further visits but didnt 
record a missing flue terminal.
But the work history  notes  that the flue terminal was missing in October 2018. And Mr J 
hasnt mentioned any incident  in which it went missing. So I find it likely that it had been 
missing since  at least December 2016.
I accept the statement form British Gas that this had caused  wetness in the boiler  and its 
breakdown on about  11 October  2018.
Mr J was without central  heating and hot water before he contacted  British  Gas. Thats  why 
he contacted British Gas.
In my view the engineer  was wrong to ask Mr J to make access through  the roof for work on 
the flue. He shouldve been clear on one of two positions. Either  the policy  covered making 
access, work  on the flue and making  good  the roof - or the policy  didnt cover the flue at all.
In my view the correct position  was that the policy didnt cover the flue at all because it was 
over 1 metre long. So the engineer shouldve told Mr J that  and asked if he wanted a quote  
for the work.
Ref: DRN48142413But Mr J would surely have had to pay for making access  through the roof. So  even if he 
could show us evidence  of the cost  I dont consider that British Gas caused  him the cost of 
that or the associated delay.
Mr J told British Gas that access had been  made. The engineer  returned on 18 October 
2018 intending to replace the flue. But that visit was unproductive. On 24 October 2018 it 
told Mr J the policy didnt  cover the work because the flue was over 1 metre.  
From the file, I see that on 31 October 2018 British Gas installed a temporary flue and got Mr 
Js central heating and hot water working. So Mr J and his wife had been  without central  
heating for about  three weeks.
I do hold British Gas responsible for not keeping several appointments and so wasting Mr Js 
time. That caused him inconvenience and distress. But he hasnt provided enough details of 
his work  or his earnings.  So I dont find it fair and reasonable  to direct British Gas to pay 
compensation for loss of earnings.
On 4 December  2018 British Gas installed a permanent replacement  for the flue. The policy 
didnt cover the flue. So British Gas wasnt obliged to replace it free of charge. And I dont 
hold it responsible for not doing  so sooner.
I accept that the supply  and installation of the replacement flue wouldve cost Mr J over 
£800.00 Overall, I consider that the free replacement  of the flue more  than made up for the 
shortcomings Ive found in the service of British Gas. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct British Gas to pay Mr J any compensation or to do anything  further  in response to this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4814241