K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 21 instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr M between  January 2015 
and December 2016. Mr M borrowed amounts ranging between £50 and £200 to be repaid 
in 24 weekly instalments. The loans often overlapped so that Mr M would have several 
repayments due each month.  There were no significant breaks in the lending  over two years. 
From what  I can see, there  is an amount outstanding for loan 21. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ms complaint in part and thought the loans from loan five 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Sunny disagreed and the complaint was passed  to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN47264352Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Sunny asked Mr M for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out credit  
checks. Mr M said his monthly income  was between about  £1,000  and £2,800. He said his 
outgoings were  between £200 and about £1,000. I cant see that Sunnys credit  checks for 
loans one to four showed anything untoward  that should have  prompted  further  checks. 
For loans one to four, given the loan amounts,  what was apparent about Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time and his history with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. 
There wasnt anything in the information Mr M provided  or the information  Sunny shouldve 
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what  Mr M was 
saying. These four loans looked  affordable for Mr M, so I cant say it was wrong for Sunny to 
provide them. 
But I think Sunny should  have better checks for loan five. This was Mr Ms fifth loan in two 
months and the amounts borrowed stayed about  the same. I think Sunny should  have asked  
Mr M to verify what hed told it about his finances. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan five would most likely  have 
shown that Mr M was having  problems managing his money.  This was because Mr M still 
had loan four outstanding and Sunnys checks would have shown that he also had several 
outstanding commitments with other short-term lenders. 
So I think Sunny  should  then have  realised that Mr M was unlikely  to be able to sustainably 
repay loan five or any subsequent loans.  And so I think Sunny was wrong  to approve further 
lending from this point  onwards.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr M, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 
six. I say this because  by this stage  Sunny  should have realised that Mr M was persistently 
reliant on short-term loans:
Ref: DRN47264353Mr M had borrowed  again a short-time after repaying previous loans several times and 
was now asking to borrow again the same day hed repaid loans  four and five.
The amount  Mr M had borrowed had decreased from £200  for loan one to £100 for loans 
two to five, but he was now asking for £200  again.
From  loan six onwards Mr M was provided with a new loan within days  or weeks of 
settling a previous  one. So Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than not that 
Mr M was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was 
leaving in his finances and that Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan  21 was taken 
out 23 months after Mr Ms first. And it was for the same amount. Mr M had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Sunny  over an extended period.
I think that Mr M lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing  from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Ms ability to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-
cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 6 to 21 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  5 to 21, and waive any still 
outstanding; this refund should be offset against  the balance  of principal still owing for 
loan 21 and the rest paid to Mr M; if a balance remains outstanding, an affordable  
repayment plan should be agreed to clear this;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 5 from Mr Ms credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  6 to 21 should be removed from Mr Ms credit 
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ms complaint. I 
require Elevate Credit  International  Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Mr M compensation as 
set out above.
Ref: DRN47264354Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4726435