K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains that National  Westminster  Bank  plc delayed the transfer of money when 
she moved abroad. 
background 
Mrs V was planning to move to Canada and, before she did so, met with Nat West to discuss
her plans. She explained that she would be selling her house in the UK and would put the
proceeds in a savings  account, and then would arrange a transfer once she had a bank
account in Canada.
Mrs V left the UK at the end of September 2018 and contacted the bank to transfer  the
money  around  £220,000  on or about 18 October 2018.
It wasnt possible however to make the transfer immediately. There  were  various  reasons for
that  but it seems that the bank didnt have an up-to-date  signature  for Mrs V, it wasnt
possible to transfer  more than £10,000 a day online and it was difficult  to deal by telephone.
Partly in an effort to ensure  the transfer  was made,  Mrs V complained  to the bank and to this
service. The transfer was finally made at the end of January 2019, more than three months
after Mrs V had first requested it.
Nat West accepted some responsibility for the delays and compensated Mrs V for some  of
her expenses (for example, telephone charges and travel expenses  incurred in trying to sort
things out), and waived  the fees for the transfer.  But Mrs V didnt think it had done enough
and asked that we continue with our consideration of the complaint.
One of our investigators  considered whether Nat West should do more.  Initially, he
considered that Mrs V should be compensated (amongst other  things) for being  deprived of
the money in her account, at an interest rate of 8% simple.  But the bank said that the delay
also meant that Mrs V had benefited  from moving exchange rates   her £220,000 bought
more Canadian  dollars in January 2019  than it would have done  in October 2019. The
difference was similar to the interest  the investigator  had suggested.
The investigator reconsidered his view and concluded that a payment of £500  would  be
reasonable in the circumstances. Mrs V didnt  agree, however, and asked that an
ombudsman review the case. I did that and issued a provisional decision. I considered that 
the main issues for me to consider were:
      interest on the funds while they were  tied up in the UK;
      the exchange rate changes;
      other expenses and costs; and
      compensation for non-financial loss.
I concluded  provisionally  that:
Mrs V should be compensated at an annual  rate of 8% for not having  the use of her 
money while  the transfer was delayed; 
any benefit  to Mrs V of exchange  rate changes should be disregarded; 
Ref: DRN43967382I hadnt seen any evidence of further  costs (such as storage fees),  but it was likely  they 
would have been  incurred in any event.
I indicated that I thought  NatWest should  bear most  of the responsibility  for the problems  Mrs 
V had had and that I was minded to make  an award of £3,000 in total  to include some 
compensation for non-financial loss. 
The bank accepted my findings, and Mrs V indicated she would be happy to resolve the 
matter on the basis  I had suggested. In response  to my comment  that she might  have  
anticipated some of the problems herself, she said that she did  and that was why she 
arranged to meet with the bank before she left. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Those arguments  include the responses 
to my provisional decision.  
As both the bank  and Mrs V have accepted my overall findings  (if not each and every detail 
of them), I dont need to discuss  them  any further.  But I am issuing a final decision so that 
its binding on both parties.
my final decision
My final decision is that, in full and final settlement of Mrs Vs complaint,  National 
Westminster Bank plc should  pay her £3,000 or the equivalent in Canadian dollars at the 
date of payment  (at Mrs Vs option). Payment should  be made within  30 days  of Mrs Vs 
acceptance of this determination  of her complaint. If payment is made later than that, 
National Westminster Bank plc should include interest a 8% a year simple from the date of 
Mrs Vs acceptance to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4396738