K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained to St Jamess Place Unit trust Group Ltd (SJP) about a transfer  made 
from his unit trust that has resulted in him incurring a capital gains tax (CGT)  liability.
background
In December 2017 Mr B wrote to SJP requesting that it transfer  funds from his unit trust to 
both his and his wifes ISA accounts  in order to make use of their allowances for that tax 
year.  On  that instruction  Mr B wrote a note which said only to go ahead with the transaction 
if it does not involve  a sale and re-purchase  of units which would incur a net loss due to 
differences between  the bid and offer price.  The note also said Please do not go ahead if 
this is not the case or there is any other  net loss.
SJP processed the transfer of £40,000 from the unit trust and split it between Mr B and Mrs 
Bs ISA accounts.  It went ahead on the basis that there was no difference between  the bid 
price and the offer price  and so the transfer  didnt incur any net loss  as per Mr Bs concern.
It subsequently became  apparent that as the transfer had required the sale and re-purchase  
of units, Mr B incurred  a CGT liability.  Mr B was unhappy and complained to SJP.   It didnt 
uphold the complaint and so he referred  matters to our Service for review.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  but recommended that it shouldnt  be 
upheld.  In summary, he said that Mr Bs instructions were not to proceed of there  was a net 
loss, cost or penalty,  but this didnt  include potential tax liability.   He also,  said that when Mr 
B had queried whether it was a sale and re-purchase when signing the transfer forms, SJP 
didnt confirm that, but he went ahead  anyway.
The investigator also commented on concerns Mr B had raised about the consolidated tax 
certificate issued by SJP.   He said they arent intended to provide details of tax liability, but 
rather to confirm dividend  and interest  receipts for a professional tax adviser to use to 
calculate actual  tax liability in individual circumstances.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators conclusions.   He explained  that when he met with the 
SJP adviser and agreed to the transaction  initially,  it was on the basis  that there would be 
no financial  downsides.  He said that the payment of tax is a cost  which SJP should  have 
been aware of and flagged up.
Mr B also highlighted  the communication between him and SJP once the transfer form was 
provided for him to sign.  He was concerned  it was a sale and re-purchase and so asked for 
clarification from SJP.   The response he received was You  will simply transfer at 100% of 
the unit value   no cost.  Mr B says he reasonably interpreted this as meaning it wasnt a 
sale and re-purchase,  and could not have reasonably understood it to mean anything else.
The investigator took note of Mr Bs comments but wasnt persuaded to chance his view.   So 
Ive now been  asked to look at everything  afresh and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I reached  much the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly similar reasons.
Ref: DRN44050822Its important that I explain that for me to uphold a complaint I must be satisfied the business  
has done something wrong.   I understand Mr B feels SJP has not acted  fairly  and 
reasonably.  Im now considering the issues with the benefit of hindsight and knowing the 
impact of the transfer, but in reaching  my decision Ive focussed upon what SJP did at the 
time and what the parties knew then.
In reviewing the complaint Ive considered everything provided by the parties,  but in setting 
out the reason for my decision Ive focussed specifically upon issues  that I consider central  
to what has happened.  The two key points are:
The original instructions given to SJP by Mr B, and whether it was reasonable for the 
transaction to be completed in those circumstances.
Whether SJP misled Mr B when it responded to his query before signing the transfer 
form.
I understand why Mr B is unhappy the transfer  of funds  from his unit trust into the ISAs has 
resulted in a CGT liability  for him.  The original purpose of transferring funds  into the ISAs 
was to make  use of both his and his wifes annual ISA allowance  and get the benefit of tax 
efficiency.  Whilst I am mindful of this fact, Im not persuaded SJP did anything  wrong  
progressing Mr Bs initial instruction.
The letter Mr B wrote to SJP gave clear  instructions  to transfer  funds from his unit trust to 
make use of the ISA allowances.  I appreciate  he made a prominent note on that letter to 
only proceed on the basis it didnt give rise to a net loss  with specific reference to any 
difference between  the bid price and offer price.   Given  that context, Im satisfied SJP took 
into account Mr Bs request and acted reasonably.  
SJP confirmed that the way the transaction was completed meant there  were  no differences  
in price and so no net loss.  Although Mr Bs expectations are that it would have also 
considered the potential  tax implications for him when deciding  whether there  was a cost  or 
net loss, I disagree.  Unless SJP was being  asked to give advice on the overall  suitability of 
the transfer (which  may include the tax implications), I dont think it should  reasonably  have 
been expected to consider CGT.   
Each individual has their own personal  annual allowances for tax, including  CGT.   So without 
assessing Mr Bs wider circumstances it is unlikely  SJP would  have known whether those 
allowances were already  being used up and if Mr B would incur an actual liability as a result.  
I know Mr B disagrees with this view,  but considering it impartially and without the benefit of 
what we now know, I cant say SJP did anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly.
Ive also considered that before completing  the transaction, SJP provided Mr B with a 
transfer form to sign and authorise  it.  Upon receipt  of that form, Mr B clearly  had concerns 
that it would  involve a sale and re-purchase  and asked a question about the process to that 
effect.
Ive considered this issue at some length as I do appreciate it is less clear, and whether SJP 
answered appropriately is a finely balanced  point.  To decide what I think is fair, Ive thought  
about the context  of the transaction overall and what SJP is likely to have believed  Mr B 
wanted to know.
Ref: DRN44050823SJPs response to Mr B was You will simply transfer at 100%  of the unit value  no cost.  
Bearing in mind he had previously asked about  the sale and re-purchase prices because  of 
his concerns about incurring a net loss, I think that is the basis for SJPs response.   It 
focussed on the fact there was no cost, but never  specifically said there  was or wasnt a 
sale and re-purchase.   Mr B authorised it on the assumption  it meant there was not a sale 
and re-purchase, but given  why he wanted to know I dont think  he could rely upon that.
At no point  in the correspondence did Mr B express that he had concerns about potentially  
incurring CGT liability.  Had he done  that, my view would be different.  But  he did not and so 
I dont think SJP were on notice that is why he wanted to know, and so the response was not 
given in that context.
So overall, Im not persuaded SJP did anything wrong or acted in a way which was treating 
Mr B unfairly.  I realise Mr B is likely to be disappointed with my decision, but I must assure  
him that Ive carefully considered the points  hes made  and reached  my conclusions  
impartially.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Bs complaint 
against St Jamess Place Unit Trust Group Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4405082