K822xcomplaint
Miss D complained about the amount of compensation which  Santander UK Plc paid her 
when it stopped the wrong card.
background 
Miss D had two accounts with Santander.  On Tuesday 29 January  2019,  she rang 
Santander about a direct debit shed wanted to cancel. When  that was resolved and the 
adviser asked if Miss D wanted  anything else, Miss D said yes, can you block the card on 
my other account please, because Ive lost it? The adviser said shed stopped the card, and 
then checked  what the last transaction  had been.  Miss D said that on was the other account. 
The adviser apologised and said shed got confused. She checked the last time the other 
card had been used,  and Miss D and the adviser  were in the middle of checking previous 
transactions on that card when the call ended.
The next day, 30 January, Miss D rang Santander again. She told the bank that shed tried 
to use the card she hadnt lost, but the transaction had been rejected. The adviser  
apologised, and said shed arrange for new cards to be issued for both accounts, which  
would take three to five working days.  Miss D complained that she wouldnt have access to 
her accounts  for up to five days.  The adviser confirmed this, but said Miss D would be able 
to access her money at a branch.  It became  clear  that the previous days adviser had 
blocked the wrong card, hadnt ordered a replacement,  and had left the lost card live. Miss D 
told the adviser that the previous days adviser had said Miss D was confusing  her. The 
adviser arranged  for a call back about  Miss Ds complaint.
On 31 January, Santander  rang Miss D back  about her complaint. Miss D confirmed there 
were three parts to her complaint: the wrong card was blocked, the new card not ordered, 
and shed been left without card access.  Santander accepted that its adviser had got 
confused, apologised and offered Miss D £50. Miss D said this was nowhere  near enough 
for the inconvenience.  She said she wanted £100  to be paid to both accounts,  or shed take 
it to this service. The adviser  replied  that she could compensate Miss D by a total of £100, 
but not more.  Santander paid Miss D £100  and confirmed this in writing.
Miss D wasnt  satisfied  and went back to Santander.  She asked for £200 as well as the £100 
shed already received. The replacement cards arrived on Monday 4 February.
In the banks final response  in mid-February, it set out what had happened  and apologised  
for its advisers human error. It pointed out that Miss D had been told she could access  her 
money through a branch, and said there were many branches near to her. The letter  also 
said it was apparent that Miss D had been able to access her money via friends accounts. 
This was because Miss D had internet  access  and shed made a number of transfers to 
individuals during this period  in other  words, that these people  had been able to give her 
cash which shed repaid by bank transfers. So Santander refused to pay Miss D any more 
compensation.
Miss D wasnt  satisfied  and complained to this service. 
The investigator noted that Miss D had described  several examples  of trouble and upset 
caused by neither of her cards  working,  as she normally used these for all her daily 
payments. And Miss D had said she had to borrow  from friends and relatives. He noted that 
Miss D had also said that although  there was a branch near her home, she was at work with 
Ref: DRN41602842only 30 minutes break during branch opening  hours. The investigator recognised  that Miss D 
had been able to rely on friends and family,  but there had been inconvenience  in having to 
do so. He thought Santander should pay Miss D a further £50 compensation for this.
But the investigator didnt agree with Miss D that Santander provided poor customer service 
when she complained. Nor did he agree  that the complaint handler treated Miss D without 
empathy. Miss D also said the original adviser had deliberately cut off the call when she 
realised shed cancelled  the wrong  card. But the investigator said there was nothing  to 
suggest that.
Santander agreed to pay Miss D an extra  £50 compensation. But Miss D said that wasnt 
enough.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes listening to the call 
recordings.
Santanders adviser on 29 January made  a mistake in cancelling  the wrong  card for Miss D. 
She also didnt order  a replacement card, but I consider that was because the call ended  
suddenly. The adviser had apologised, and had said sorry I got confused  there. The 
adviser was then going through  the process of checking the most  recent  transactions on the 
correct card  as shed  already done  with the incorrect one  when  the call ended  mid-
sentence. I cant  tell who ended the call, or whether  it was a technical issue.  
I find it strange that neither party rang again to pick up on the unfinished call. Santander  told 
us that that team cant make  outgoing calls, but presumably it has a way of contacting  a 
customer when this sort of phone  issue arises. I dont know why Miss D didnt try to call back  
straightaway. But I consider its likely that the matter would have been sorted out and a new 
card issued, if either side had phoned back straightaway to resolve it. 
As Ive set out, the result  of the unfinished  call was that Miss Ds live card was blocked, and 
replacements for both cards werent  ordered until the next day when Miss D rang back.  I find 
that Santanders adviser on that call was helpful  and did what she could by ordering both 
new cards.  I also find that the complaint handler on 31st was helpful, and I dont agree with 
Miss D that either adviser lacked empathy.
When looking at compensation, we consider the distress and inconvenience  a customer  
suffers. Here, Miss D was without cards on both her accounts for a few days until 
replacements arrived. She would only have been without the one she herself had lost, if it 
hadnt been for Santanders error.
Miss D has set out various examples of inconvenience in her complaint, from 
Thursday 30 January to Monday 4 February when the cards arrived. Miss D used internet 
banking and Ive seen copies of her statements, showing the transactions she made during 
the period when she couldnt use the card which had been  incorrectly  cancelled.  These  
included payments to people  who had let her have cash. So Miss D could access  her 
money, but I recognise  that there would have been a certain amount of inconvenience to 
Miss D in having to make  internet  transfers to friends and relatives, in order to refund them 
for any cash theyd have let her have. There would also have been  embarrassment when 
she first discovered her card had been  stopped, when she was paying in a restaurant.
Ref: DRN41602843I have considered Santanders  argument  that there were branches  near to Miss Ds home, 
and also near the shops  she said she visited with friends from whom she had to borrow 
money. Miss D has argued  that she couldnt go to a branch because she only had 
30 minutes break at work. I recognise  it isnt always easy to visit a branch when working. But 
the branches would  have  been open  at some of the times Miss D said she was 
inconvenienced  for example when  she said she was shopping on the Friday  afternoon.  
Taking all these factors into account, I find that £150  would  be a fair and reasonable amount 
of compensation  for Santander  to pay for the distress and inconvenience  its error caused 
Miss D. The bank has already paid £100, so this leaves  £50 still to pay.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order  Santander UK Plc to pay Miss D 
£150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. As it has already paid her £100, this 
leaves £50 still to pay.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4160284