K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the delays and service experienced in relation to the payment of his 
pension from Cofunds Limited (Cofunds).
background
In April 2018, Mr P completed a drawdown  application requesting for his pension
Commencement lump sum (PCLS),  and income  payments to be paid to him from the
following month.
Mr Ps adviser submitted the application and confirmed to him on 10 May 2018 that whilst
his payment requests had been  set up, his pension funds can only be disinvested after
his 55th birthday and it would take up to 10 days before he would receive the funds following 
this.
The adviser contacted Cofunds on 21 May 2018,  which was the first working day after Mr Ps 
birthday, to get confirmation that his pension funds had been disinvested. He was advised
that the instruction had been  given and no further  information was available.
Due to the lack of information available to and the fact that Mr P hadnt received his
pension payment, he raised  a complaint on 29 May 2019.
A third party, Ill refer to as Company S, are the administrators of Mr Ps pension.  Cofunds 
forwarded Mr Ps payment instructions and they undertook  a valuation of his account on 
25 May 2018 in order to calculate the PCLS payment. It ordered a sale request on 
29 May 2018. The funds were  disinvested on 30 May 2018,  and received  by Cofunds on 
1 June 2018.
Cofunds paid the PCLS payment of £70,326  to Mr P on 6 June 2018, and his first income
payment of £2,700 was paid on 25 June 2018.
After investigating  the complaint, Cofunds didnt agree they were responsible for any delay  in 
disinvesting the funds but agreed that it had delayed the payment of the pension and found 
that both payments shouldve been  made on 1 June 2018. In light of this, it awarded a 
payment of £300,  which took into account  the loss of interest, which  amounted to £91.27, as 
well as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Whilst Cofunds response had resolved some of Mr Ps concerns, he remained aggrieved  
over the fact that his pension was not disinvested the next working day after 
19 May 2018 as he felt this led to additional  financial  loss.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and felt it should not be upheld.  He found 
that Cofunds had requested the administrators  begin disinvestment of Mr Ps pension fund 
on 21 May 2018, and this was the first working  day after he turned 55. Following this, the 
administrators actioned the request  within 10 working days. 
In relation to the delays, which had occurred after the administrators had sent the funds to 
Cofunds who then made payment to Mr P, he found  that the compensation and redress  offer 
made in respect  of this was fair and reasonable. He also noted that Mr P accepted  Cofunds  
Ref: DRN41697492compensation in respect of the delay in payment, and he was only complaining  about  the 
delay in disinvestment. 
Mr P did not agree.  He says during the process  of disinvestment Cofunds had confirmed to 
his adviser that it would take place on a specific  date so that he wouldnt suffer any falls in 
the market. He further says that if there were any financial loss because  of this, then 
Cofunds would compensate him for the difference. He stated that although the 
administrators had delayed the disinvestment  of his pension,  he considered Cofunds were 
responsible for this, as it had chosen  to outsource the administration  of his pension.
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion of the complaint. He contacted  
Cofunds to obtain a copy of the call recordings referred to by Mr P, however, as the calls 
were made to field agents they were not recorded.  Whilst he did not doubt the calls took 
place, he considered the timescales involved and whats generally accepted in the industry. 
He didnt find there had been unfair  delays  or that Cofunds had any control over the actions  
of the administrators.   
Mr P disagreed. He set out a number of concerns he has with the adjudicators  view in a 
formal response.  He feels as Cofunds  client they shouldnt be able to negate  responsibility  
for the administrators  failings and remains firmly of the view the administrators didnt carry 
out the disinvestment of his funds in a timely  manner. He also feels strongly  that guarantees 
were given by Cofunds representatives with regard to the fund value and doesnt accept 
their explanation for the poor customer service he received.
Mr P asked for an ombudsman review.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh. Having  done so, Ive reached  the same  conclusion as the adjudicator and for 
broadly the same reasons.  I appreciate  Mr P will be disappointed with this outcome but Ill 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say, what I think  is more 
likely to have happened given the information  available.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P initially  made three specific  complaints to both Cofunds and this service. They relate to:
1.the delay in Cofunds carrying out his instructions to disinvest his funds to cash on the 
1st working day after his 55th birthday.
2.a lower than expected  Pension  Commencement  Lump (PCLS)  sum because of the 
delay.
3.the deduction of charges from his fund due to the delay in disinvesting  his funds.
Ref: DRN41697493Having looked  closely at the information its clear Mr P invested in the Cofunds Pension 
Account (CPA) which is provided and administered by Company S. This is relevant in the 
circumstances of this complaint in terms of who was responsible for carrying out certain 
actions at given  times.
Both parties  agree Mr Ps adviser submitted the application on 25 April 2018 and Cofunds 
sent the application to Company  S on 26 April 2018.  They confirmed to him on 10 May 2018 
that whilst  his payment  requests had been  set up, his pension funds can only be disinvested 
after he turned  55. Company S, then has a service  level agreement to process  this request 
within 10 working days.
I appreciate Mr P had spent time in planning  his retirement and I have noted  he hasnt been 
in the best of health and so submitted  his request  well in advance in anticipation  of securing 
his PCLS and pension  payment as soon as possible after his 55th birthday. But, both firms 
must abide by the relevant HMRC regulations. Im also not able to comment on internal  
workings of a company, but Im persuaded a timescale of within 10 days  seems reasonable 
and broadly in line with industry standards. 
The date of Mr Ps 55th birthday fell on a weekend  and so the first opportunity to begin to 
process his request, in compliance with HMRC regulations, was Monday 21st May. Company 
S undertook a valuation of Mr Ps account on 25 May in order  to calculate  the PCLS and 
ordered a sale request  on 29 May. The funds were  disinvested  on 30 May, and received by 
Cofunds on 1 June 2018. Im persuaded this is within a fair and reasonable timescale.
I appreciate Mr P feels strongly  that as a client of Cofunds they should bear ultimate 
responsibility and had they acted  more quickly he wouldnt have suffered a financial loss. Im 
afraid I dont agree. Im not able to hold Cofunds  responsible for when Company S carried 
out the request, as they had no control over the process.
I have also taken note of the two telephone  conversations that Mr P says took place 
between his advisor and Cofunds  representatives  on 24 May.  Unfortunately, Cofunds are 
unable to provide  recordings of these  telephone  calls so Im not able to comment  on what 
was said. Whilst I dont  wish to dispute  Mr Ps advisors recollection of the discussion I would 
find it most unusual for a guarantee  to be given for a specific valuation  date when the 
administrators were within their own timescale  and the fund had yet to be valued at that 
point. I say this because at the time Mr Ps advisor telephone Cofunds, on 24 May, the fund 
hadnt actually  been valued  and so Im not sure why a date of 23 May would  be given, as 
there would be no way of knowing  whether the fund value would be higher  or lower than that 
of the actual valuation on 25 May. That would only be known after the event, with hindsight. 
From what  Ive seen, Im not persuaded the disinvestments of the funds were unduly  
delayed. I accept Mr P would have liked to realise  his PCLS at the earliest opportunity but I 
dont agree Cofunds have  acted unfairly.  This is because I dont agree Cofunds  had any 
control over the process of disinvesting the funds and so I cant fairly hold them  responsible 
for any delay, about which Mr P complains.
Cofunds havent disputed,  after receiving Mr Ps pension funds on 1 June  2018  they delayed  
the payment to Mr P. Ive considered the compensation  awarded which  I note included  an 
interest payment  and recognition of the trouble and upset this matter caused. Im persuaded 
this is broadly in line with what  I would expect to see and I find it a fair and reasonable 
award.
Ref: DRN41697494I appreciate the points  Mr P makes that in his view,  moving to a new technical platform  is a 
poor excuse  for the customer service he has received  and the delay in responding to his 
complaint. I can understand Mr Ps frustration  but companies carry out technical upgrades 
with a view to providing a seamless service for customers  in the future. That doesnt excuse 
delays in responding but does explain it. In this case I note Cofunds did respond to his 
complaint within  the timescales permitted, albeit Mr P was dissatisfied with their final 
response.
I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed but Im unable to uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4169749