K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about Scottish Widows Limited  (Scottish Widows). Hes unhappy that 
following an update to Scottish  Widows  system hes no longer able to view specific  
information for his Personal Pension  Plan (PPP) online.
background
Scottish Widows  online  system originally included functionality which  allowed Mr D to view 
current as well as historic  unit prices.  When Scottish Widows upgraded its system this 
functionality was lost. Mr D complained. 
Scottish Widows  responded to Mr D and in summary said:
due to a lack of demand for the unit history function it had decided  to remove  this
its development focus as a business  was centred on other  ways  to improve  its 
service to customers
it noted Mr Ds feedback and said the unit history function  may be something  added 
again in the future
it was unable to uphold his complaint
Unhappy with Scottish Widows response, Mr D referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said:
while she understood why Mr D was unhappy she didnt think  Scottish Widows had 
done anything  wrong
Scottish Widows  was entitled to decide what information it provided online to its 
customers
Mr D responded and disagreed with our investigator. He said his complaint wasnt  a matter  
of whether Scottish Widows had made  a mistake;  it was a question of it providing  information 
that should be available to customers so they could make informed decisions about their 
investments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Ds complaint.  Ill explain why, but before I do, I should emphasise  that while Ive 
taken note of the correspondence, arguments  and comments made by both parties,  I have 
limited my response to what  I consider  to be the issues  central to this complaint. 
Its clear to me that access to current and historic  unit prices applicable to his PPP is 
something of real importance to Mr D. Specifically he says this information  helps  him to 
understand the performance of the fund his PPP is invested in and forms an essential part of 
the investment  decisions he makes. Because of this I can understand why Mr D is deeply 
concerned and frustrated  by the fact that Scottish Widows has withdrawn this function from 
its online system.
But I think its also important to reflect on the role of this service. Our role isnt to tell a 
company how to operate. The Financial Conduct Authority is responsible for this. Moreover, 
Ref: DRN49426792the system Scottish Widows  chooses to put in place is legitimate exercise of its commercial 
decision. Its entitled to withdraw  the unit price  functionality  from its online service.
I can see why having unit price information is a real necessity for Mr D and can appreciate  
that being able to access this information  as and when  he likes online is a real benefit and 
convenience for him. But Im mindful  that accessing  the information  Mr D wants isnt 
something thats restricted to Scottish  Widows online system. Scottish Widows has 
confirmed Mr D can contact it directly  to request the information he needs. I think  this 
alternative is reasonable.
I dont doubt Mr Ds sincerity in bringing  his complaint to this service or his strength of feeling  
on the matter. But for the reasons outlined above I wont  be requiring Scottish Widows do 
anything further.  
I understand D will be disappointed with my decision but the way in which Scottish  Widows 
chooses to provide information to its customers is very much a commercial decision that it 
wouldnt be appropriate for this Service to intervene on. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4942679