K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Bradford & Bingley plc mis-sold a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr S in 1996 in connection with a 
mortgage. The policy provided Mr S with cover if he couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. Mr S paid a monthly  amount  for the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. Mr S disagreed with
the adjudicators  opinion  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
From the evidence I have  seen I dont think that Bradford & Bingley recommended  the policy  
to Mr S personally, so the key question I need  to consider is:
- Did Bradford & Bingley give Mr S information that was clear,  fair and not misleading  
in order to put him in a position where he could  make  an informed choice about the 
insurance he was considering buying?
If the answer  to this question is no, then I need  to consider whether Mr S is worse off as a 
result. That is, would he have done  something different  such  as not taking out the policy  
if there had been  no problems  with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr S says Bradford & Bingley told him he had to take the PPI to get the mortgage he 
wanted. So he doesnt consider he was given a proper choice. Ive noted everything Mr S 
has said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr S and Bradford & 
Bingley when the policy sold. Im also mindful that these events took place over twenty years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened  can fade over time.
Bradford & Bingley  hasnt  been able to provide  much paperwork from the time the policy  was 
sold. Thats  not surprising  given the amount of time thats passed since  the sale,  and its 
similar to some other cases  Ive seen.
So without anything  else to support  what Mr S has told me, I havent  been able to safely 
conclude that Bradford  & Bingley didnt make  him aware that the policy was optional.
Ref: DRN44454732Mr S satisfied the eligibility requirements  of the policy when taking it out.
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated to Mr S before he agreed  to 
buy it. But he chose to take out the policy, knowing he would have to pay something for it. 
The policy was competitively priced  and had a reasonable  benefit.  So I dont think  Mr S 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Mr S wasnt  affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover.  So I dont think he 
needed better information about the policys  exclusions  and limitations.
Bradford & Bingley  didnt  recommend the policy to Mr S, so it didnt have to check his 
circumstances to make sure it was suitable  for him. He had to decide that for himself.
But even if Bradford & Bingley had recommended  the policy, from what  Ive seen of Mr Ss 
circumstances I dont  think  it was unsuitable  for him. The policy wouldve paid out in addition 
to the statutory sick pay Mr S says he was entitled to, and wouldve meant he couldve used 
those benefits  pay for other expenses. And Mr S was borrowing a large amount for a long 
time, secured on his home, so failing to make the repayments promptly  couldve been  
serious for him. So I think  Mr S wouldve had some  use for the policy, despite his existing 
arrangements.
In summary,  I think Mr S agreed to take out the cover, knowing he didnt have to. And given  
it provided broadly  what I think  he expected when he agreed to it, I dont think  he would have 
made a different decision (and decided against  taking it out) if he had been  better  informed 
about its cost and terms.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4445473