K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC wrongly  opened  up a joint account for her with 
her ex-husband. 
background
Ms F had a large amount  of money  in her current account and decided to open a savings 
account to put it int. Barclays did this, but by mistake set up a joint account  with her ex-
husband, even  though  they have been divorced  for many years.  It seems  that the details of 
an old joint account that Ms F had with her husband  was accidently copied and used to open 
a new one. 
Ms F didnt know that this had happened  until her ex-husband told her. Since then, Ms F had 
said that her ex-husband has used the knowledge  of the money  that she had in this account 
to stop paying for some  things  that he used to.     
Barclays apologised for the mistake  and shut the account. They said that they have now put 
a fix in place  to stop it happening again  to Ms F or any other customer.
In recognition of the mistake that they made, and the impact  that it had had on Ms F, 
Barclays offered to pay Ms F a total of £350 in compensation (£250 for wrongly opening up 
the joint account and £100  for the delay in sorting  it out).
Our investigator thought that Barclays were  right to accept that they had made  a mistake, 
and to offer Ms F compensation. Although they have closed  the account, he thought that the 
amount that Barclays had offered was a fair sum in the circumstances. He didnt think that 
we could order Barclays to pay for things that Ms Fs ex-husband was now refusing  to pay 
for. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays have accepted that what they did is wrong, so what I need to decide here is 
whether they should pay more than the amount that they have offered. I dont think that they 
should, and I believe that they have acted fairly here. Ill explain why.  
 
We are a quick and informal service and because of this, we arent able to provide a remedy  
like a court  could. 
Specifically, we dont  order damages for the things that Ms Fs ex-husband is now refusing 
to pay for in the same way a court  would.  
Also, we cant punish or fine Barclays. Instead, our role is to quickly  and informally look into 
the complaints  referred to us. And, if a business  has made a mistake, to make sure that 
people are put in the same position as they would  have been had the mistake not been 
made.  
Here, Barclays cant change  the fact that Ms Fs ex-husband saw the money in the joint 
account, but they have closed the account  now and have taken steps  to try and prevent  this 
Ref: DRN40738562from happening  again. Its difficult to see what else Barclays could do to put their mistake  
right here.
So then I need  to think about the impact this had on Ms F. Its clear  that this happened at an 
unfortunate time for Ms F and has made things more difficult between her and her ex-
husband. Its also clear that there was a delay  in Barclays sorting  this out for Ms F. But I 
think that Barclays offer of £350 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to compensate 
her for this. I know  that Ms F will be disappointed by my decision,  but I dont uphold  her 
complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Dan Bunting
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4073856