K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 1992 and 2001. Mr and Mrs U say Nationwide  Building Society mis-sold them  the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs U made  a complaint to Nationwide about the alleged  mis-sale of two PPI 
policies. Nationwide  didnt  agree  it had mis-sold  the policies.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs U didnt agree so the complaint was 
referred to me. After looking at all the information on file, I wrote a provisional decision in 
which I explained I didnt  think  the policies had been  mis-sold. My provisional  decision read 
as follows: 
Based on what Ive seen  so far, I dont currently think the policies  were  mis-sold. 
2001 sale 
Mr and Mrs U had a meeting in which they took out a new mortgage  and agreed to take PPI 
alongside this. They say they decided  to take the PPI to cover Mr U only and looking at the 
mortgage application it looks like they were given  a choice when deciding to take the policy.  
They decided to take unemployment cover  only that would cover  Mr U for up to 12 months 
per claim if he was made redundant. 
Mr and Mrs U say the exclusions  werent clearly explained to them  at the time and they refer 
specifically to the following term:
If you stop working but are paid up to a certain date then under the policy youll  be treated as 
being employed until that payment date expires.
Mr and Mrs U say this mattered  to them because Mr U often had 12 months notice periods 
worked into his employment contracts  and he also received payment in lieu of his notice if 
his contract was terminated  before  the end of the notice period.
As a result, if Mr U was made  redundant, Mr and Mrs U say he wouldnt have been able to 
claim on the policy until his notice period ended.  They also say that its unlikely he wouldve 
needed to claim on the policy because he had a 12 month notice period  and they say that, 
if his contract was terminated  early and he received 12 months pay in lieu of working  his 
notice, he would still be classed as employed  for 12 months after receiving the payment. 
The first thing I need to do is consider whether or not Nationwide recommended the policy to 
Mr U. This makes  a difference to what Nationwide was expected  to do during the sale.  If it 
recommended the policy, it had to make sure it was suitable for Mr U based on his 
circumstances and, to some extent, those  of his wife. If it didnt recommend the policy,  it only 
had to make  sure Mr and Mrs U had the information they needed  to decide that for 
themselves.
Nationwide says it didnt  recommend the policy to Mr U - while  Mr and Mrs U seem to 
effectively say it did. But this doesnt strike me as a point Mr and Mrs U feel especially 
strongly about as their complaint concerns  the information they were given. And as I havent 
Ref: DRN45061382seen anything compelling to suggest the policy was recommended by Nationwide, Im not 
currently persuaded it was. 
This means  Nationwide  only had to make sure Mr and Mrs U had the information they 
needed to decide for themselves whether  the policy was right for them   and that means it 
had to make  the significant features of the policy  clear to them.
Nationwide says that it provided Mr and Mrs U with a policy  document that set out the details 
of the policy. Mr and Mr U say they didnt receive  a policy  document  until 2009.  Looking at 
the mortgage offer from August 2001, it said in the section on PPI: your  policy  is enclosed.  
So on balance, I think its more likely Nationwide did provide  a copy of the policy  document 
around that time. 
However, as the policy document was long and densely worded, and as it wouldnt 
necessarily have been given to Mr and Mrs U with lots of time and space  for them  to read it, 
its possible Nationwide didnt provide them with the clear information  it should have.
But even if that was the case, Im not currently persuaded the term Mr and Mrs U have 
complained about was one that Nationwide had to point out to them.  I say this because,  
notwithstanding what I know  about  Mr Us circumstances, Im not persuaded the term in 
question was unusual  or in some  way unreasonable. 
In my experience, most PPI policies  would pay out for unemployment  from the point at which 
a policyholder stopped  working  and being  paid as its at this point that the risk of the 
policyholder missing their monthly repayments  either materialises or goes up. 
This means  that if a policyholder is made  redundant but has to work their notice period, its 
often only when that period ends that PPI kicks in. I acknowledge  that, if the policyholder  
receives payment  in lieu of their notice period, the situation is different to the extent  that 
theyre not going into work day-in-day-out. However,  as theyre still being paid during their 
notice period despite not having  to work,  there isnt anything that the PPI needs to protect  
the policyholder  against  until the notice period ends.  
With that being the case, I dont think its unusual or unreasonable that the policy in question  
states that, if the policyholder stops  working  but continues to be paid up to a certain date, 
theyll be treated as employed  until the date in question  passes. As a result, I dont  think  
Nationwide had to draw Mr and Mrs Us attention  to the term in question. 
Having considered Mr Us other  personal circumstances at the time of the sale it doesnt 
looks like he was affected by any of the exclusions on the PPI cover. So I dont  currently  
think it was mis-sold.
1992 sale
Mr and Mrs U took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 1992  and took PPI alongside  it. They 
made the same arguments for both sales, so Ive followed  the same thought process for the 
1992 sale as I did for the 2001 sale. Looking at the mortgage application I think  
Mr and Mrs U were given a choice to take the policy, and they chose to take it. 
Ive again seen nothing that makes me think Nationwide didnt follow it normal  process by 
giving a personalised recommendation  to Mr and Mrs U. So I dont think it had to make sure 
Ref: DRN45061383the policy was right Mr U  but it did have to give him enough information so he could make 
sure he wanted it. 
For this sale, there was a letter sent to Mr and Mrs U after the mortgage  application  was 
completed explaining the PPI would be free for the first year.  But theres nothing to show  a 
policy document was sent to Mr and Mrs U. Nationwide has sent me a copy  of the policy 
document that was in place at the time of the sale.  This shows that in order  for Mr U to 
receive payment  under the unemployment  benefit  he needed to either be claiming  
unemployment benefit or be registered for work  at the Unemployment  Benefit Office. And the 
exclusion around notice  periods didnt apply for this policy. 
In addition to this, the policy couldve covered Mr U for up to 24 months per unemployment 
claim. So I dont think  better information about  the policy wouldve affected his decision to 
take it out.
Having carefully considered all of the information Ive been provided  with, I dont think 
Nationwide mis-sold the PPI policies to Mr and Mrs U. 
Ive also thought about whether Nationwide needs  to give back  to Mr and Mrs U some  of the 
commission they paid.  The Supreme  Court  ruling and new rules  and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr and Mrs Us 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Nationwide 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs U paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
Nationwide responded to my provisional decision and agreed with my findings. Mr and Mrs U 
didnt respond  with any additional comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any additional  comments or evidence for me to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional decision. 
So, for the reasons explained  above,  I dont think the PPI policies were mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4506138