K820x#14Complaint
Mr M has complained that TSB Bank Plc wont refund unauthorised transactions and that it 
failed to make a reasonable adjustment.
Background
Mr M is deaf. He requires a British Sign Language  interpreter  when talking to others.  He 
uses the Next Generation  Text (NGT) relay  service to make phone  calls.
Mr M said his online  banking and debit card were  affected by TSBs technology failures in 
April 2018. He said he was without money for 4-5 days. During this time, he had to borrow 
money from his sister and use his credit card. As a result, he incurred  bank charges. He also 
complained about duplicated transactions on his account.
In addition, Mr M said there were four transactions on his account, which  he didnt recognise: 
an ATM  cash withdrawal  and three  payments to a gambling merchant.
He tried to raise a complaint in branch  but TSB staff couldnt provide a British  Sign 
Language interpreter. He said staff told him they would make an appointment when he and 
an interpreter could attend.  He said there  were  35 to 40 failed attempts to book an 
appointment. 
Mr M said he made 50 trips to the branch by taxi. And as he couldnt  deal with his complaint 
in branch, he had to use the Next Generation Text relay service, which cost him around  
£250. He also said when he called TSB, the advisers would hang-up, as they couldnt 
understand what he was saying.
He asked TSB to:
remove the duplicate  transactions
reimburse his bank charges, taxi fares and the costs of using Next Generation  text
refund  the unauthorised transactions
pay compensation of £500.
TSB acknowledged that Mr M had been affected by its system  update.  It said it had fixed the 
problems and corrected  the duplicate transactions. It said it was aware hed had difficulties 
raising his complaint in branch and for this, it agreed  to pay him £100.  It said there was only 
one appointment,  which  had been  cancelled because the interpreter couldnt attend.  It also 
agreed to pay him £50 for his expenses.  And it said if he provided evidence  that his 
expenses exceeded  £50, then it would consider a further payment. 
TSB paid £150  into his account.
However, TSB didnt  refund the unauthorised transactions. It said they were  made  with his 
debit card and PIN and were consistent with previous activity  on his account.
Mr M wasnt happy with TSBs  decision so he brought his complaint to this service.  He is 
asking for a refund of the unauthorised transactions and for compensation of £500.
An investigator looked into his complaint and decided not to uphold  it because:
the disputed  transactions  were carried out with Mr Ms debit card and PIN
the four transactions were consistent  with previous activity on the account
Ref: DRN43085122three transactions were to a gambling  merchant which hed used before
Mr M hadnt  reported his card as missing or lost
he was unable to answer questions about how a third party might have his card or 
know his PIN.
The investigator concluded that, on balance,  Mr M had authorised  the disputed transactions.  
The investigator didnt  think it was reasonable to expect TSB to find a BSL interpreter 
without advance notice.  She considered it had acted  appropriately by making an 
appointment, allowing it time to find an interpreter. She thought the compensation payment 
of £150 was a fair and reasonable settlement, especially as Mr M couldnt  provide proof  of 
his expenses.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  the transactions,  the 
relevant regulations and the evidence.  Both Mr M and TSB have read the investigators view,  
so I wont repeat every detail here,  only those that form the basis  of my decision.  However,  I 
can assure Mr M that Ive read the file, including his comments. Having reviewed the 
evidence, Im afraid Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint. I will explain why.
In short,  TSB is required  to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  The relevant 
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017  (the PSRs 2017).  
Mr M says he didnt  make the disputed  cash withdrawal and payments and he wants  a 
refund. So my primary concern is to come  to a view about whether or not I think  he 
authorised the transactions. 
Having reviewed the transaction history, Im satisfied his genuine  card and PIN were used in 
order for the disputed transaction  to take place. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own,  enough to enable  TSB to 
hold him liable. So I also need  to think about  whether the evidence  suggests that its more 
likely than not that Mr M consented  to the transactions  by making  them himself or allowing 
someone else to use his card. 
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for TSB to conclude  that Mr M authorised  
the transactions. This is because:
the disputed  transactions  were made using Mr Ms genuine card and PIN
when Mr M called TSB, he confirmed he still had his debit  card. He said no one 
had permission to use his card and he hadnt shared his PIN with anyone else
Mr M was unable  to answer  our questions about  how a third party  couldve  
known his PIN or taken and returned  his card to him without him noticing
his statement shows hed made regular payments of similar amounts to the same 
gambling merchant  before  the disputed transactions
Ref: DRN43085123hed received a credit  in his account  from the same merchant, two weeks before 
the disputed transactions
his statement shows regular gambling activity and the disputed  transactions were 
not unusual for his account
hed used the same ATM for genuine  cash withdrawals.
Ive thought about whether a third party carried out the disputed transactions  but there is no 
evidence to support  this scenario. It would  have to have been  someone close  to Mr M 
because he had his card on him and was still using it. But Mr M couldnt  provide any 
information about who might have access to his card or PIN. He simply said he couldnt 
remember.
Mr M has asked  for CCTV evidence but this wasnt available. CCTV footage might have 
shown someone  else making the cash withdrawal and payments. But Mr M didnt have to 
make the transactions in person to be liable for them under  the relevant rules.  He can still be 
held responsible for them if he allowed  someone else to use his card.  So even if CCTV had 
been available,  looking at all of the evidence in this particular case, I dont think I could  be 
sure that he wasnt involved.
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr M authorised the disputed 
transactions. It follows that TSB is entitled to hold him liable  for them.
The investigator asked  Mr M to provide evidence supporting his claim for £500 
compensation, such as receipts, but he hasnt  provided anything. He said hes thrown away 
whatever proof he had. In these circumstances, I wont be asking TSB to pay anything  more.
Im sorry  to send disappointing  news but I hope the reasons for my decision are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is I am not upholding  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4308512