K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that Intrinsic Financial Services Limited wrongly  advised  her to take out a 
level term assurance policy in 2006, which did not match her decreasing  term mortgage term 
and did not last the necessary 25 years. As a result, she is now left with no cover.
background
An adjudicator at this service  felt her complaint should be upheld.
He said Intrinsic should find out what  the cost of premiums on a suitable 25 year decreasing 
term policy would have  cost and pay Mrs R the difference in the costs up to the date her 
policy ended.  It should also set up a new decreasing  term policy to match the remaining  term 
of her mortgage and charge her whatever  the cost of the premiums would have been if this 
policy had been  set up in the first place.
Intrinsic did not agree,  and said:
It has not seen any evidence to support Mrs Rs contention that her husband took out 
a separate 25 year policy  when her policy provider turned down his application or 
that this policy is still active
Theres no evidence to support the original adjudicators view that this 
recommendation was purely driven by commission; this policy attracted less 
commission than a 25 year one
Equally, the adjudicator did not have sufficient evidence to question  whether the 
original demands and needs  document  had ever been sent. This would have been 
sent to Mrs R by the provider; this explains why it does  not have a copy
The Fact Find indicates  that Mr and Mrs R were planning to make overpayments  on 
their mortgage and use Mr Rs future  pension  lump sum towards paying off any 
outstanding balance
This demonstrates  they were planning  to pay off their mortgage  after 13 years and 
appears to have been the basis for the subsequent recommendation (even though  
this is not stated)
This would explain  the rationale for a level term policy as the outstanding balance 
would not reduce  significantly in the early  years of a repayment  mortgage
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I do not accept  that there is any justification in this instance for a level term 
recommendation. As the mortgage debt would be decreasing each year Mrs R only needed 
decreasing term protection for it. The amount outstanding decreases slowly at first on all 
repayment mortgages but it does  reduce. Certainly after 13 years the debt would be 
significantly reduced. I am very surprised Intrinsic  has sought to make  this argument.
In the vast majority of cases the most  appropriate recommendation is for cover  which  
matches the size, term and type of mortgage. So the key issue, in this case, is whether there  
is sufficient evidence to safely conclude that Mrs R only wanted  insurance cover for 13 years 
on the basis that she and her husband fully intended to pay off the mortgage when he 
retired.
Ref: DRN48409342In fact, the evidence  strongly indicates that Mrs R was looking for insurance cover which 
matched the new mortgage, and the advisor recorded this on several occasions including 
stating that Mrs R was looking for decreasing term cover. 
Firstly, as he has recommended the mortgage  he was aware  of its size, term and nature so 
there can be no doubt that he understood what cover  matching that should  have been. 
However, the advisors recommendation is subsequently based  on this statement:
Reason for Recommendation:  YOU  REQUESTING COVER  FOR  FULL  MORTGAGE 
AMOUNT OF 227,000  FOR  THE TERM OF THE MORTGAGE OF 13 YEARS.
As he knew the mortgage was for 25 years, this statement was clearly inaccurate and 
misleading. I previously considered Intrinsics jurisdiction objections to this service 
considering this complaint. In my decision  I explained why I was satisfied Mr R first became 
aware of this obvious error recently.  Ill not, therefore, repeat these arguments but I think  the 
evidence suggests  the advisor made  a clear mistake in relation to the length  of the 
mortgage.
I have considered Intrinsics speculations  as to why Mrs R might  have only wanted cover  for 
13 years  (none of which justifies  the level term recommendation) but I have seen no 
persuasive evidence  to support these. It seems to me that the reference  to Mr and Mrs R 
hoping to be able to pay off some  or all of the outstanding mortgage  early  via 
overpayments and a possible  pension lump sum  merely indicate there was a discussion 
about how they would continue to afford  such a large  mortgage  in retirement. If they had a 
clear intention to pay off the entire  outstanding balance when Mr R reached  65, the advisor 
would have needed to explore the financial feasibility of this before  recommending  protection 
which would end many  years before the mortgage was paid off. He did not do this.
So I have  seen no persuasive evidence to justify  his apparent recommendation for a 13 year 
policy  which seems  likely to have  simply been  an error.
I note that Intrinsic wanted to see evidence that Mr R took out a policy  lasting the length of 
the mortgage with another  provider,  presumably  to demonstrate that they were  both looking 
for long-term  mortgage cover.  I am satisfied that this complaint should be upheld, for the 
reasons outlined above, irrespective of whether Mr R took out a 25 year policy at the time or 
not. 
However, for completeness I asked Mrs R if her husband could provide such  detail.  She said 
he regularly looked  for cheaper policies and so tended to replace policies quite often so may 
not have details of the one taken out in 2006. She was subsequently able to supply copies of 
policies taken out in 2011, 2012  and 2016  by her husband, all of which  provided sufficient 
cover for the outstanding mortgage  and up until 2021. This indicates to me that Mr R more  
than likely also took out one in 2006.
I am therefore satisfied  this complaint  should be upheld, and with the redress  proposed by 
the adjudicator.
Intrinsic must find out what  the cost of premiums on a 25 year decreasing  term policy would 
have been, based on Mrs Rs age, circumstances etc., and refund the differences between 
the cost of these  monthly premiums and the cost of her actual premiums  up to the date of 
settlement of this complaint i.e. the date at which  it has been  able to access a suitable policy  
Ref: DRN48409343for Mrs R going forward. It should then add 8% simple interest per annum to each premium 
difference from the date each premium was paid to the date of settlement of this complaint.
It must also offer Mrs R a new decreasing  term policy for the remaining period of her 
mortgage (until 2031)  and at the same monthly  premium cost that such a policy would  have 
cost if she had taken  this out in 2006.
In practice, I assume it will need to source a policy  in the open market, and Mrs R will need 
to undertake a new medical underwriting assessment, before the insurer agrees to a policy 
and premium cost. Intrinsic will then need to pay the difference  between the premium costs  
and what these should have been  over the lifetime  of this new policy.  i.e. not based on the 
new medical underwriting weighting.
I strongly recommend  that it pays this as a single upfront lump sum to the policy  provider to 
avoid any future dispute. But it can, of course,  pay its share of the monthly premium instead 
either via a direct debit  to the policy provider  or to Mrs R herself.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Intrinsic  Financial Services Limited to pay compensation 
as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4840934