K820x#14complaint
Miss T has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly and 
reasonably refused to cover her claim for vet fees for her dog, It said the cause  of her claim 
was excluded under  her policy.
Miss T represented by her father  Mr T but I shall refer to Miss T throughout for the sake of 
simplicity.
background
Miss T bought her policy on 28 December 2015  over the telephone  and it started on 2 
January 2016.  It is a lifetime policy, which provides cover up to the annual  limit for her dog, 
which is £2,000.  It also excludes cover for any conditions, which occur before the policy 
started and any conditions, which started  within the first 14 days of the policy  start date.  
Red Sands  said Miss Ts dog first suffered from otitis according to the vet history on 8 
January 2016,  which was within the first 14 days of the policy starting and so her was 
excluded. Miss T said she wasnt aware  of this.
Red Sands  said due to this, all ear and allergy problems were now excluded. Miss T 
disagreed and brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think Red Sands had 
done anything  wrong. Miss T remained unhappy so her complaint has been passed  to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
The chronology of events in this complaint is important, so Ill recount  it from the evidence  
available to me.
Miss T phoned up to buy this policy on 28 December  2015. Her puppy was still at the 
breeders but obviously, Miss T believed in good faith that her puppy was just a normal 
healthy puppy with no issues, as otherwise she would have not chosen  him. So she 
answered the questions and agreed  to all the assumptions requested by Red Sands  properly  
and she did nothing wrong in doing  that either. The policy started on 2 January 2016.
This policy in line with almost every  other  pet policy is sold on an non advised basis, which  
means Red Sands has no duty to advise a consumer,  like Miss T, if this policy  is suitable for 
her needs,  only to make sure its terms and conditions are clear. Ill come back to the issue of 
clarity later. 
When Miss T brought  her puppy home,  she (as any new pet owner would do) took him to the 
vet. This visit was on 8 January 2016, so within 14 days of the policy starting.  The vet noted  
the puppy had discharge from his ears. So this was entered on her dogs vet history.  There 
was no duty under this policy for Miss T to have  told Red Sands this, at the time. 
The vet saw Miss Ts dog again on 20 January where his ears were still a bit mucky. And 
again, on 19 October where  both ears were  dirty  and smelly, the right ear was inflamed, 
Ref: DRN47098652and that it was a continuation issue from January. The vet then saw Miss Ts dog again on 
15 December where both ears were  inflamed  and again on 27 December where allergies  
were discussed.
A claim  goes in for treatment already incurred and then the vet phones  Red Sands to ask if 
the allergy test, which is very expensive, would be covered.  Red Sands said it would  be 
something that was capable  of being  covered but would be subject to review of the claim 
and that guarantees are not given out on the phone. On that basis following presumably a 
conversation between the vet and Miss T, Miss T went  ahead with incurring  the costs  of the 
allergy testing.
Then Red Sands said given the ear problems  started within 14 days of the start date of the 
policy, it and any related issues were excluded. It also then imposed two exclusions on the 
policy for ears and allergies and Miss T then wasnt covered for the cost of the allergy tests 
or the rest of the claim.
Its clear Miss T relied on what  her vet said about the call she had with Red Sands but thats 
not a matter I can concern myself with. I can only consider if Red Sands did anything wrong 
in refusing to pay this claim  by saying the condition was excluded.
I think the policy is very clear in explaining that conditions  are not covered if they started 
before the policy began or within 14 days of the policy start date. The reason for this is that 
there is a 14-day cooling off period where  Miss T could have cancelled the policy  with a full 
refund of any premium  paid. So its consequently not unreasonable  that any conditions  that 
might have developed in those first 14 days would be excluded. And I dont think  theres 
anything wrong  with that.
Its usual that Red Sands,  in common with all other  pet insurers,  rely on the vet history  
supplied by the vet in assessing any claim and I also have no issue with that as its clear 
evidence made  at the time so its contemporaneous.  If there is any dispute with the content 
of that medical  history, that remains solely an issue between  the pet owner and the vet. And 
again, its not an issue I can consider, or one, which I think  Red Sands (or any pet insurer) 
has a duty to consider. 
Its also clear  from the call recording  between  the vet and Red Sands that the allergy tests 
were being  advised by the vet given  the problems with the dogs ears to see if that was why 
he was constantly  having infections.  So I dont consider Red Sands did anything  wrong  with 
linking the two as it has, most  especially given  the contents of this call recording, since it was 
the vet herself  who was linking them.
It actually doesnt  matter much whether Red Sands knew of the vet visit on 8 January 2016  
as the claims assessment  is done  on the vet history and in this case, what  the vet herself 
said directly to Red Sands. And here, its also not sadly very relevant whether Miss T knew  
her new puppy had discharge from his ears then either. Its an evidential fact that the vet 
recorded in the vet history and therefore one which Red Sands is entitled to rely on in its 
assessment of the this claim. 
Red Sands  also in common with many  other  pet insurers do not give a guaranteed pre-
authorisation on claims in this manner, simply as the advisers on the telephone do not have  
that authority.
Ref: DRN47098653So whilst I do understand Miss T will be very disappointed with my decision, I dont think Red 
Sands has done  anything  wrong in its assessment of this claim.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4709865