K821x#15complaint
Mr F is unhappy  that the value of his pension  had been calculated incorrectly by Aviva  Life & 
Pensions UK Limited.  He says if hed have known the true value he wouldnt have taken a 
lump sum payment.   
background
Mr F had a pension plan with Aviva. In 2015  he wanted to access  his pension fund early on 
the grounds of ill health. Aviva told Mr F the fund value was £4,487.82. Concerned  that the 
low fund value could  be eaten up in fees, Mr F decided to withdraw the fund in full.
On 27 February 2018 Aviva wrote to Mr F. It said it had discovered an error  relating to the 
final fund value of his plan and a further payment may be due. Before  issuing any payment it 
needed to verify Mr Fs identify by carrying out an online check  with a reference agency.  
Aviva wrote to Mr F again on 12 March 2018.  Aviva  said that a review  of his policy had 
identified that the settlement value was incorrectly  calculated. As a result,  when the policy  
was terminated  on 20 October 2015,  the value  paid was less than it should have been. Aviva  
apologised and said it had taken steps to ensure  that Mr F didnt lose out financially. A 
cheque for £16,279.54 was enclosed. That was made up of the shortfall as at 20 October 
2015 of £15,755 plus an increment of £524.54.  The letter said there may be a tax charge for 
additional payments from a pension contract  which is no longer in force.  But Aviva had 
agreed with HMRC that Aviva would settle the charge on the payment so there  was no tax 
for Mr F to pay. 
Mr F complained to Aviva about the amount  of interest  the increment  that had been 
added. Mr F said hed been  told it would be £5,092.91 whereas the actual amount paid was 
£524.54. Aviva paid Mr F £150  for the disappointment hed suffered and the fact that Aviva  
had initially  failed to log the issue as a complaint.   
Mr F contacted us towards the end of August 2018.  He said if hed known the correct value 
of his policy in October  2015 he wouldnt have cashed it in. He queried why he hadnt been  
given any options  and he said that hed asked Aviva for information which  hadnt  been 
forthcoming. 
We asked Mr F if he could  return any of the money  hed received.  He said he couldnt. He 
set out his situation at some length.  In summary hes a recovering alcoholic and a 
compulsive gambler. He explained the effect  on him, as someone  with addiction 
behaviourism, of receiving  a sum of money  which was more  than his current yearly  income.  
It caused his recovery  to flounder. He was worried that his housing  benefit would be stopped 
and hed end up having to use the money to pay his rent. He opened online casino accounts 
(evidence of which he provided)  in an attempt to make enough money to cover the loss of 
benefits he expected to suffer as a result of receiving  the lump  sum. Unfortunately, this 
wasn't successful and the money was lost.  
Our investigator didnt  think Aviva  had done  enough to put right the error it had made. In her 
view issued on 24 January 2019  she said, in summary:
She accepted  what Mr F had said about if hed have known how much the plan was 
worth hed have kept it and taken benefits later. 
Ref: DRN49743432The correct calculation meant he was entitled to more than four times  the amount he 
initially received.  It was irresponsible on Avivas part to simply send him a cheque for 
such a large amount  of money  without discussing it first with him. 
There was no evidence that Mr F was told he could reinvest the funds. 
Aviva  should have encouraged Mr F to seek legal advice before deciding what  to do 
with the additional funds.
Mr F had provided detailed information about  his circumstances. Aviva had confirmed 
it knew he was vulnerable. Had Aviva explained  to Mr F his options and encouraged 
him to seek advice, it was more  likely  than not hed have chosen  to keep his funds 
invested in a pension plan.
Because the funds were no longer available, she didnt think Aviva  should have to 
open a new plan for Mr F. But Aviva should increase its offer for distress and 
inconvenience by £800 to pay Mr F £950  in total.
Mr F raised  some points.  Very briefly:
Aviva  hadnt clarified exactly what error had been made   its actuaries were 
supposed to provide  that information. His policy  had arisen  out of his membership of 
a former employers pension scheme  which had been wound  up and the benefits 
bought out with Aviva (originally Friends Life). The policy  was a deferred annuity and 
not a contributions based personal pension. 
He was inclined  to accept the final valuation  Aviva had paid him as correct.  But he 
was concerned about loss of growth  from October  2015  to his normal retirement 
date, originally 2025 but could  be 2027.  If hed been  in employment and not in receipt 
of benefits he could have reinvested the two sums he got from Aviva and so hed get 
the growth if the policy hadnt been cashed  in. He took full responsibility  for the 
capital sums he did receive but he should  get compensation for the expected growth  
between 2015  and 2025/2027.
He didnt really know  what  to expect by way of compensation (for non financial loss) 
but he was happy  with an additional  £800 and that the effects on him personally had 
been understood.
In summary he was seeking  compensation for the loss of growth between 2015  and 
2025/2027; he wanted Aviva to supply figures  to confirm the final valuation; Aviva 
should confirm  hed have no future tax liability; he wanted to know if the mistake was 
confined to his policy or a system  error; and he wasnt  sure if the interest  settlement 
was sufficient. 
We asked for some  more  information from Aviva. It confirmed that the policy   a deferred 
annuity - had been set up as Mr F had explained  following the winding up of his former 
employers scheme. The policy  provided benefits payable  at age 65 of a fixed pension of 
£2,366.57 pa. which would increase in payment by 5% pa with a five year guarantee period  
and a 50% spouses pension of £1,183.29 pa. Benefits cant  usually be taken prior to normal 
retirement date (age 65) but Mr F was accepted  under ill health and so was allowed to take 
them early, at age 55. Upon  early  retirement the normal retirement benefits are reduced  and 
the reduced pension is converted to a lump sum using applicable annuity rates. Mr F was 
offered a pension of £296.20 pa. or a lump  sum of £4,487.82 which he took (£4,488). 
Unfortunately errors were  made  within this calculation. Initially  a mistake was made  when 
adjusting the value to allow for early payment of the benefits at age 55 rather than the 
original expected retirement age of 65. In addition, the annuity rates used  to convert  the 
reduced retirement benefits assumed  the annuity  wouldn't increase in payment and that no 
Ref: DRN49743433spouse's pension would  be payable.  The combined  effect was that the lump sum that should  
have been paid was £20,243 (giving rise to the redress  of £15,755 paid in March  2018).
The investigator was concerned that the deferred  annuity benefits that Mr F would be giving  
up if he decided to take his early  on the grounds  of ill health as a lump sum hadnt been 
clearly set out to Mr F in the information  provided to him in August 2015. Aviva said it 
appeared Mr F had taken  advice and he was also qualified himself.  
The investigator put forward a different way of resolving Mr Fs complaint.  She said: 
There was no dispute that the fund value quoted and paid to Mr F was wrong. The 
full correct value  wasnt paid out until 2018.  
Mr F decided to take his benefits  as a lump  sum based on the information  he was 
given. It may be that hed have been  aware of his options with the lump  sum quoted.  
But he wouldnt have been  aware that the lump sum was wrong. 
What Mr F had said about not cashing  in his pension  in 2015 if hed known the true 
value was credible.  Hed have left the plan until he reached age 65 in 2025. But hed 
already had the value of his policy calculated to his early retirement point. And he 
wasnt in a position to repay the money hed received. 
Aviva  should consider  paying Mr F an annuity in the same  format as his deferred 
annuity from his normal retirement date.  In the event  of his premature  death (before 
his normal retirement  date)  any death benefits  should be paid in accordance with the 
terms of the policy.
But Aviva  can take into account the amounts Mr F has already received. If, for 
example, the income Mr F would have expected  to receive at age 65 was £1,000  pa 
and the reduced  pension he exchanged for a transfer value in 2015  was £300, we'd 
expect Mr F to receive a starting  level of income of £700  pa at his normal retirement 
age. Aviva should take a similar approach to any income benefits payable from the 
policy after Mr F's death.
A payment of £800  (for trouble and upset) had already been agreed.
Aviva noted  that Mr F couldnt repay any of the money hed had. It was willing to increase 
the trouble and upset payment to £800.  But it wanted to clarify  why Mr F should  also get an 
annuity and whether that wasnt giving him the benefit of the money  twice.  And the 
paperwork hed been given had made it clear that there  were  guarantees and he should 
seek independent financial advice. Given his former occupation Mr F would have been 
aware of the guarantees hed be giving up. Aviva  had agreed with HMRC  that it would settle 
the charge on the payment so there was no tax for Mr F to pay. Aviva queried  how Mr F had 
used the payment and if it had been  invested. 
The investigator said that the settlement shed  proposed did take into account that Mr F had 
already received a lump sum so he wouldnt be getting that money twice.  She maintained 
that he hadnt been clearly told that hed be giving  up a guaranteed annuity. His previous 
occupation didnt  absolve Aviva of its responsibility to make  Mr F aware he was giving up a 
valuable guaranteed annuity. She referred  to her original view letter dated 24 January  2019 
in which  shed explained what had happened  to the payment.  She said the £800  for trouble 
and upset was in addition to the £150  already paid  so £950 in total.
Aviva reviewed its file and said Mr F had contacted it in October 2015 to take the benefits of 
his policy  early on the grounds  of ill health.  Aviva  had provided the documentation it had sent 
to Mr F but it hadnt been able to locate  the telephone call hed made to Aviva. In 2017 hed 
Ref: DRN49743434taken the benefits of another  policy as a lump sum. Hed been given the relevant 
documentation and hed confirmed hed taken financial advice. 
Aviva was unaware of Mr Fs addictive behaviour in 2015 or in 2018 when the further  
payment was made. Aviva referred again  to Mr Fs former occupation and said hed have  
been aware there were options  about  investing the payment hed got. He could have  
approached the adviser hed used in 2017 or the Citizens Advice Bureau or asked  a friend or 
relative to help him. It didnt appear  that Mr F had contacted Aviva in 2018 after hed 
received the payment. Aviva  also asked if there  was any evidence  to support what Mr F had 
said about not encashing the policy if hed have known its true value. Aviva also felt the 
distress and inconvenience award  was a bit too high although it conceded the £150  initially  
paid was on the low side.
The investigator pointed  out that the fund value  of the other policy  was very small which 
seemed to reinforce  what Mr F had said about only taking a lump sum because  the fund 
value was small and would be eroded by fees. She couldnt provide anything else to show  
that Mr F wouldnt  have encashed the policy which is the subject of his complaint aside from 
his testimony, which shed already shared with Aviva. She thought what  hed said was 
plausible and she had no reason to doubt it. On reflection  she agreed that Aviva wasnt  
necessarily aware of Mr Fs gambling  problem but she maintained  it was wrong  simply to 
pay the additional funds without further  discussion. She revised  the compensation for 
distress and inconvenience to £400 (in total). But she pointed out that was in addition to the 
annuity benefits shed recommended.
Aviva agreed to the trouble  and upset payment of £400 but not to the recommendation to 
pay Mr F an annuity from his normal retirement  date. It referred to what it had said previously 
and asked for the matter to be referred  to an ombudsman. 
The investigator updated Mr F. She explained  that shed revised her view as to how Aviva 
should redress him and she set out the recommendation shed made  which would mean  
Aviva would pay Mr F an income from age 65 although it would  be lower than the annuity 
originally quoted (£2,366.57)  to take into account that Mr F had already received some  
money from the policy. She pointed out that shed reduced the award for distress  and 
inconvenience. She said shed interpreted some  information Aviva  had provided about its 
awareness of Mr Fs circumstances too widely. She still thought it was wrong for Aviva to 
send the money  without  contacting Mr F first. But she no longer thought  Aviva  ought to have 
been aware that there was a risk that it would be spent on gambling..  She explained Aviva  
hadnt agreed to the annuity so an ombudsmans decision would be needed.  
Mr F said he was pleased  with the recommendation to try and have some  guaranteed 
pension annuity  and death benefits put back in place  for his retirement. But he wasnt really  
satisfied with the outcome. Ive summarised the main points he made  in several  emails.  
He said he hadnt  had an explanation for the mistake aside from that it was human  error. 
When Aviva  had corrected its error  two and a half years later it had displayed  a lack of 
diligence and care to Mr F as the policyholder. He said there were unanswered questions 
such as how the error  was discovered; whether it affected other policyholders;  how the final 
payment made in 2018 was calculated;  how the tax implications were handled and what was 
the annual fund growth between October 2015 and March 2018,  in respect of which a 
derisory interest amount  was added to the final payment. for the shortfall  on the initial  
payment. 
Ref: DRN49743435He also queried  why no options  were  discussed when the error came to light. He suggested 
Aviva had delayed  in responding to us during  our investigation. He also raised a number of 
queries about  the annuity that Aviva would have  to pay, which he suggested would be a 
fraction of its original value. He didnt agree with the reduction in the trouble and upset  
compensation. He also queried if hed be bound by an ombudsmans  decision or if he could 
still obtain compensation from the courts. And he provided some press  articles, about 
annuities and a report of fines imposed in relation to outsourcing and failing to protect  clients  
assets. 
Mr F also suggested a way of estimating what fund value may have been  necessary to 
provide benefits  from the policy, based on the amount of the annuity  and that it was set to 
grow by 5% pa, ignoring any spouses benefits and given his life expectancy  which (based 
on the Office for National Statistics  data) was age 84. The fund required  to pay a pension of 
£2,366 pa escalating at 5% pa for 20 years was £78,222. That reaffirmed he definitely 
wouldnt have cashed in the policy. He also said that an annuity  was paid for life and he 
queried if Aviva had acted  legally  in issuing two lump sum payments when it was aware  that 
it was a guaranteed annuity  policy. 
Mr F also said he still had concerns about the tax implications  whether the payment hed 
received was net or gross and if he might be due a tax rebate. He remained dissatisfied with 
the compensation. Aviva had sent him a cheque for £150 which was before hed contacted 
this office and before he knew that the policy was a deferred annuity with valuable 
guaranteed benefits. An error was made  in 2015 but that was followed up with corrective  
payment made without  offering  options, discussion or explanation. He was vulnerable and 
should never have  been  put in that position. He didnt  think  Aviva had acted as it should  
have done during our investigation  and had continued to be vague and lacking in 
transparency. He remained puzzled  about  the interest payment and why a much higher 
figure than the £524.54 actually paid had been quoted.
The investigator shared  Mr Fs further comments with Aviva.  It said that Mr F had contacted 
Aviva on 28 May 2018 about the interest  (the increment payment of £524.54 set out in 
Avivas letter  of 12 March  2018).  No call recording  was available.  But the note of the call 
confirms that Mr F was told the wrong figure. 
Mr F said the explanation  Aviva had given didnt make sense. He also repeated that he was 
concerned about  any tax implications. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very grateful to Mr F for the very personal and detailed information  hes provided.  And for 
allowing us to share it with Aviva. 
The circumstances of this complaint are unique. The sequence  of events was highly unusual 
and some aspects are disputed.
What isnt in dispute is that Mr F applied in 2015  to take his benefits from the policy early on 
the grounds of ill health. Mr F says he didnt appreciate  that the policy  was a deferred 
Ref: DRN49743436annuity. But it seems  from what he told the investigator that he knew  the policy had come 
about following  his membership of a former employers pension.  And on page two of the 
retirement pack that Aviva sent Mr F in 2015 said that Mr F had a defined benefit  policy  
which guaranteed to pay him a set pension income which  was shown on his quote.  
Theres also a letter dated 19 August  2015 sent in response to a telephone call from Mr F. In 
it, Aviva  confirmed  the policy was a corporate  deferred annuity set up on 1 July 1989 with 
proceeds from the winding up of Mr Fs former employers pension  scheme. Aviva also 
confirmed the policy would provide an annual pension  of £2,366.57 from 2 June 2025  along 
with a spouse's pension  of £1,183.29 in the event of death after retirement. That was on a 
joint life basis, annually  in advance with 5% escalation and payments guaranteed for five 
years. Aviva  added that there was no automatic right for Mr F to take the benefits  at any 
other time. But Aviva would consider allowing  benefits to be taken early if Mr F was in ill 
health or serious ill health as defined. 
In applying to take the benefits early  on the grounds  of ill health Mr F confirmed hed had 
regulated financial  advice. And that he was qualified on his own account to make  that sort of 
decision. If Mr F didnt fully understand, from what Aviva had said and his own knowledge, 
that hed be giving up a guaranteed annuity   a pension for life  in return for a one off lump  
sum payment, I think it was up to his adviser to make him aware of that. 
Mr F has said hes not sure if Aviva acted  legally. I dont think there  was anything which 
precluded Aviva from allowing Mr F to take a lump  sum payment on ill health grounds in lieu 
of the deferred  annuity  he was entitled to be paid from age 65. 
Aviva later discovered it had made an error. As Mr F has pointed  out, its unclear  how the 
mistake came to light or if it affected other policyholders. I havent  pressed Aviva about it as I 
dont think it would make  any difference to the outcome in Mr Fs case.  First, theres no 
dispute that an error was made  and, secondly, we deal with individual complaints and, as 
Ive said, the situation  here was unique.
Aviva has, as Ive set out above, given some explanation as to how the mistake was made. It 
was indeed human error which I accept does happen sometimes, often in a situation  such  as 
this where a non routine manual calculation was required. I appreciate  that Mr F might  want 
some more details but again, if its accepted that an error was made, Im not sure that a 
more detailed explanation, if one can be provided, will add much.  
Mr F has also said that hes had no information as to how the corrected lump sum was 
calculated. Although he suggested  he was inclined to accept  the value as correct,  hes since  
said the cost of providing the deferred annuity  indicates a much higher  fund value was 
required than the £20,243 that Aviva has paid. But the figure hes suggested is based on the 
annuity that hed have  got from age 65, whereas his benefits (as a lump  sum) were paid 
some ten years early, at age 55 so the figure  will be substantially discounted. Avivas figure 
will have been calculated  by its actuaries.  I dont  think the precise basis  of the calculation  
would be straightforward  or readily  available and may in part at least be based  on 
commercially sensitive  information. And in any event, given the redress  Ive suggested 
below, if Mr F had received a higher  settlement  figure then the residual benefits at 65 would 
be lower.
The crux of Mr Fs complaint is that he received, without warning, a cheque  for a very 
substantial amount which, in the circumstances hes described, he spent. On the one hand, 
Aviva has paid money to Mr F that he was entitled to. The money was paid late and Mr F 
Ref: DRN49743437wasnt expecting it. But arguably  Aviva isnt directly  responsible for the fact that Mr F acted 
as he did and lost the money. On that basis I can see why Aviva might  feel it would be unfair  
to expect it to pay compensation other  than for distress and inconvenience. And that might 
well have been my view if the amount had been smaller. I dont think  Id be particularly 
critical if Aviva had simply sent a cheque for a small top up payment.
But here the second payment of £15,755  represented the bulk  about three quarters  of 
the fund value. And the increment of £524.54 brought  it up to £16,279.54.  By anyones 
standards thats a very significant amount of money to just be sent out of the blue.  
I recognise that Aviva had written to Mr F in February 2015  saying that he might be entitled 
to a further payment. But I think, once  Aviva knew the amount involved,  it should have given 
Mr F some indication  about the size of the payment. As well as some  options and an 
invitation to discuss  things further with Aviva. I also agree Mr F should have been advised to 
take advice. It seems hed taken  advice in 2015 and also in 2017 when he cashed in his 
other policy. I think hed have been inclined to take advice about the further lump sum 
payment before confirming to Aviva  what  he wanted to do - whether to simply take the extra  
lump sum payment or try to work something  else out and even if he wasnt in a position to 
repay the first payment  so that the entire  exercise  of taking his benefits early  as a lump sum 
could be reversed. 
I appreciate that Mr F could have taken advice when  he got the cheque. But from what  hes 
told us I can see the situation was different when  he actually  had the money  or the cheque  
at least  in his hand. It caught him by surprise. And Ive no doubt that the amount was much  
more than hed have been expecting. He was immediately  worried about losing his benefits. 
That, coupled with his additive behaviour, led him to embark on an ill fated strategy which  
ultimately resulted  in the money  being lost. 
Aviva knew  that Mr Fs health  wasnt good. But I accept that at the time Aviva  wasnt aware 
of Mr Fs particular  problems and didnt know he was vulnerable  because  of the issues  hes 
since described. But I think, all that aside, Aviva  should have taken more  care.  Id say that in 
any event and not just in Mr Fs case. I dont think its good  customer service to simply send 
a cheque for such a large amount without considering the possibility that the policyholder 
may have  made a different  decision  earlier if hed known  the true value of the policy. 
Aviva has asked for evidence to substantiate  Mr Fs claim that he wouldnt have taken his 
benefits early and as a lump sum if hed have known the correct  value.  Like the investigator I 
accept what Mr F has said about that. I can see the difference between a decision to take 
the relatively small lump  sum initially offered and the much  larger  corrected value, especially 
as Mr F was in receipt of benefits. 
I agree  with the investigator that the complaint should be upheld and for the reasons she 
gave. Aviva made an error in calculating the correct value of Mr Fs policy.  Aviva then didnt 
handle the further payment well. 
There was then also an issue  when  Mr F queried the increment for the period  between 
October 2015 and March  2018. I note all Mr F has said about that, including  why the 
explanation given (that the number  was misread with the decimal point being in the wrong 
place) doesnt make sense. But, however  it came  about, Aviva  accepted  that an error was 
made which caused Mr F disappointment for which  Aviva paid £150 compensation. 
Ref: DRN49743438Mr F has said the increment is too low. Often, where  a consumer has been  kept out of his 
money, we will say that interest  at 8% pa should be added. Thats the court  judgment rate. 
But it will depend on the circumstances  of the particular case. Here, if more  interest  had 
been added, I think it would have  been  spent along  with the rest of the money. Im not going 
to say Aviva  should pay more interest. 
Mr F has also mentioned investment growth up to 2025. I can see his argument  that, with 
advice, he could have  invested the settlement  proceeds.  But the approach to redress Ive 
adopted below is different  and I dont think Mr F is also entitled to a notional investment 
return as well. 
Mr F has said he remains concerned about  any tax implications. But hes conceded the 
situation seems favourable. From what Ive seen Aviva has settled  the tax due direct  with 
HMRC. Mr Fs not had any indication from HMRC  otherwise. Im not going  to ask Aviva  for 
further details  of the arrangement it reached  with HMRC. 
As Ive said the circumstances  of this case are unique. Deciding whats a fair and reasonable 
outcome isnt easy. There isnt an obvious remedy or solution.  There are several  different 
approaches that might be regarded as reasonable. What the investigator  suggested  was 
somewhat unusual. But, as Ive said, so are the circumstances  of this case. I think what the 
investigator suggested was a fair compromise.  So Im going to adopt her approach.  
Aviva will need to consider Mr Fs position  when he reaches age 65 and pay him an annuity 
in the same format  as his deferred annuity but taking into account, as the investigator set 
out, the amounts already  paid. Any death  benefits  should be paid as indicated by the 
investigator. 
The outcome feels  fair  it takes  into account that Mr F has had the two lump sum payments. 
Despite Avivas failings  I dont think it would be fair to ignore  that and to require  Aviva  to 
reinstate the policy and pay the full amount of the benefits to Mr F when he gets to age 65. 
And Aviva, although it didnt agree to the solution  when the investigator suggested it, hasnt 
said why or that the proposal is unworkable. It means a line can be drawn under this matter  
for the time being at least. 
I also agree  with what the investigator said about the payment for distress  and 
inconvenience. Aviva  should pay Mr F, in total, £400. As Aviva  has already paid Mr F the 
£150 mentioned  above,  a further payment  of £250 will be due. I know Mr F is disappointed 
but I agree with the reasons given by the investigator as to why she felt, on reflection, a 
lower amount was fair and reasonable. 
I recognise theres some uncertainty  for Mr F as he wont  know until he reaches age 65 what  
further pension  he might receive.  And hes raised  some issues which, for the reasons Ive 
explained, Im not going to look into further.  Our statutory responsibility is to resolve 
complaints as quickly as possible  and with minimum formality. As Ive said Ive concentrated 
on the main issues. I dont think it would be in either parties interests  to prolong matters 
further and unnecessarily.  
Lastly Mr F has mentioned legal proceedings. If he doesnt accept my decision then he and 
Aviva wont  be bound by it. Mr F will be free to pursue the matter by other means, including  
taking court action.
Ref: DRN49743439my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited must  redress  Mr F as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4974343