K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold  him a monthly paid payment protection insurance 
(PPI) alongside a mortgage.
background
In late 1991, Mr H applied for a mortgage. At the same time, Bank of Scotland sold Mr H a 
PPI policy covering him for accident, sickness and unemployment. Neither Bank of 
Scotland nor Mr H can say how the policy was sold to him.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr H
didnt agree with the adjudicator. So the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ive first considered whether Bank of Scotland gave  Mr H a choice about buying PPI.
Mr H says he wasnt told anything about PPI and didnt know  he had it. He said he lost his 
job in 1994 and if hed known he had PPI, he wouldve made a claim.
I wasnt present at the meeting with the Bank of Scotland, so I cant  say what was discussed.  
In circumstances  like this, where  some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory,  
I have to make a decision based on what I think  is most likely to have happened   looking at 
whats available. 
Bank of Scotland  no longer has Mr Hs paperwork from the time of sale. Banks often  only 
keep records for around six years  and Mr Hs mortgage account was closed  much  longer 
ago than that. I dont  have  enough information  to fairly conclude that the optional nature of 
PPI wouldnt have  been made  clear  to Mr H. Nor can I know  if it wouldve been possible for 
Mr H to make a successful claim.  So, I cant fairly uphold his complaint on this ground.
Bank of Scotland  says it recommended  PPI to Mr H. That means it also had to check  if PPI 
was right for him. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances, I think it was. Ill explain 
why.
Mr H was eligible for PPI. 
He doesnt  appear  to have been affected  by any of the main  things  the policy didnt 
cover.
Mr H couldnt remember how much sick pay he wouldve  got, he said it was possible  
he wouldve only got statutory sick pay. The policy  wouldve paid out on top of any 
sick pay Mr H got from his employer, for up to 12 months  per successful claim. So I 
think PPI couldve been useful to him to protect  his home. He couldve made 
repeated claims on the policy. 
Ref: DRN47557662He also thought he may have had some savings  at the time, but couldnt  remember 
how much  he mightve had. I cant see that Mr Hs other resources wouldve made 
the PPI unsuitable for him. 
He said his partner  wouldve  help meet his mortgage repayments,  but help of this 
kind cant always be guaranteed when the time comes. 
I cant see that the policy was unaffordable  for Mr H and he couldve cancelled the 
monthly paid policy  at any time without losing out financially. 
Its possible that the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr H could  have been  clearer. 
However, I dont think having better information  would  have put him off deciding to buy the 
PPI. So, overall, I think the PPI couldve provided Mr H with valuable protection  and I cant  
see that Mr H has lost out because of anything that Bank of Scotland  couldve done better. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think Mr Hs mis-sale complaint should be upheld.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:
 When the policy was sold, Bank  of Scotland expected to get a high level of 
commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  
have told Mr H about that. Because Bank  of Scotland didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair.
 To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think  that is fair in this 
case. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already  done this, 
so I dont award  any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4755766