K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains about the amount that shes been charged by Hitachi  Capital (UK) plc, 
trading as Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions, on the early termination of her hire agreement  
with it.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mrs T for her to use for her work  as a driving instructor  under a 
hire agreement with Hitachi Capital that she signed in November 2015.  She extended the 
term of the hire agreement for twelve months by a modifying agreement that was effective  
from January 2018. She complained to Hitachi Capital about  a knocking noise coming from 
the car in October 2018  but it was unable to arrange for the car to be repaired by a garage 
within a time frame and distance that was acceptable to her. She asked Hitachi Capital  for, 
and received, a quote for the early termination of her agreement.  Mrs T terminated her 
agreement and received an invoice for the outstanding charges and end of contract damage 
charges (from which her bond of £150  was deducted). Mrs T complained to Hitachi  Capital  
and said that she returned the car in mid-November 2018 and paid half of the payment for 
that month  so shouldnt  have to pay for another month. She wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that Hitachi 
Capital did everything  that it could do to assist Mrs T with booking  the car in for a repair  but 
the time and location werent acceptable  to her. And he said that a courtesy car wouldve 
been available to her once her car had been booked in for the repair   which  he thought  was 
reasonable. He also said Hitachi Capitals early  termination calculation  in November 2018 
stated that the early  termination figure didnt include the rental due at the end of November 
2018 which she would be expected to pay. He also said Mrs T had been charged  £375 for 
end of contract damage  but she wasnt disputing  that charge.  So he didnt  think  that 
Hitachi Capital had done anything wrong.  
Mrs T has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that she 
had to cancel  work  due to the knocking  sound coming from the car for over a week  and she 
expected Hitachi  Capital to provide her with a courtesy car while it sorted the problem out 
but it couldnt find a garage for approximately  ten days and it was too far away.  She says 
that Hitachi Capital  received the car back in October and she paid it 50 percent of the 
monthly payment  but it still insisted that she should pay for another month. And she says 
that she had to pay for a new car so that she could continue with her work.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs T complained to Hitachi Capital about a knocking noise coming  from the car in late 
October 2018. It says that the closest garages  to her location were  unable to book  the car in 
for about two weeks so she was offered a booking the following week but the garage was 24 
miles from her location which wasnt acceptable  to her. And Hitachi Capital  says that she 
wouldve been offered a courtesy car when her car was booked  in for a repair   but that a 
booking was never made.
Ref: DRN43138372Mrs T then asked  Hitachi Capital for a quote  for the early termination of her agreement.  
Hitachi Capital provided a quote  for the termination  of the agreement with effect from the 
beginning of December  2018 of £281.68  and it said that the quote  didnt include the rental 
payable due at the end of November 2018 which it still expected to be paid in addition  to the 
early termination payment.
Mrs T terminated the agreement in November 2018  and paid the termination payment. But 
she didnt make the payment that was due at the end of November. Hitachi  Capital then 
invoiced her for the November payment  and end of contract damage charges (which  Mrs T 
hasnt disputed) from which it deducted  her bond of £150.
I consider that Hitachi Capital clearly set out the termination charges that were  due from 
Mrs T and clearly  set out that she also needed  to make her November payment. Mrs T 
terminated her agreement but didnt make the November  payment that was due. So I 
consider that it was fair and reasonable  for Hitachi Capital to charge her for the payment that 
she hadnt made. Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence  to show  that Hitachi  
Capital has acted incorrectly. So I find that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable for me to require 
it to waive  the charge  that its made to Mrs T  or to take any other action in response to her 
complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4313837