K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains that Virgin Money  plc hasnt given him the rewards  he expected  when he 
took out a credit card account with it.
background
Mr P said that he took out a credit  card account  with Virgin.  He paid a fee of £160 to hold the 
card. He expected that the spending on this card would earn him reward  points in the form of 
miles he could use to travel on Virgins related airline. He said hed confirmed that an offer 
that Virgin had sent him was linked to his card, which would allow him to earn bonus miles 
for taking  out the card and for meeting spending targets  in each of the first three  months. But 
then he said he didnt  get the miles he was expecting. 
Mr P sent us marketing  material  which suggested  he could get 15,000  miles for taking  out 
the card, then 6,000 miles a month for each of the first three months, if he spent a minimum 
of £1,000 in each of those first three months.
Virgin said that it gave  Mr P incorrect advice, because it had told him this offer had been put 
on his account,  and it wasnt. It told us that this offer was only open to people who had been  
personally invited  to apply, and it said that Mr P hadnt been. Mr P had sent it some  
marketing material, which he said showed  he had been invited to apply, but Virgin  said that 
didnt have Mr Ps name on it. 
Virgin said that even  though Mr P wasnt entitled to this bonus offer,  it had still given him 
some extra miles. It had given him the initial 15,000 miles for taking out the card. And it had 
put 6,000 miles on his account for the first qualifying  period, because  hed met the qualifying 
spend for that month.  It initially  said that it wouldnt give him anything  for the second 
qualifying period, because he hadnt  met the qualifying spend in that month. But it has since  
told us that it has credited  his account with £105.  And he could use that amount to buy 6,000 
miles if he wanted to.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that Virgin  had made a mistake  in 
telling Mr P how many air miles  he was entitled to. But our investigator thought that Virgin  
had made  up for that. It had given him the introductory offer of 15,000  miles that he thought  
he was going  to get. And it had given  him 6,000 miles for the first qualifying period. It had 
then given him £105, which h could use to purchase 6,000 more  miles, for the second 
qualifying period. 
Our investigator said that Mr P wasnt actually entitled to this offer,  because  it was only open 
to people who had been personally  invited to apply, and Mr P hadnt been personally invited. 
But our investigator thought that what Virgin had done provided a fair outcome  to this case.
Mr P didnt agree with that. He said hed been sent marketing  material to invite  him to take 
out this card.  His name wasnt on the material itself, but that was just because  there  was no 
name on the contents of the envelope. 
Mr P said that hed met the qualifying spend  in the first two months, and then hadnt  spent  
quite the same amount in the third month, because by then he was getting conflicting 
information about whether he would get the reward miles hed been expecting. And he said 
he hadnt been offered any pro rata refund if he decided to cancel the card. 
Ref: DRN46987362Because Mr P didnt  agree  with our investigator, this case  was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-It did look to me as if Virgin had made some mistakes in dealing  with Mr Ps account. It 
accepted that it told him he was getting a particular offer for bonus miles,  that it then said 
wasnt on his account. It says that it wrongly  advised  him about that. 
-Then Virgin made another mistake  when it was trying to sort out Mr Ps complaint. It told 
him that he had spent  enough for the bonus miles in his first reward  month, but not his 
second. Virgin then seems to have  accepted  that Mr P had spent enough in the first and 
the second periods, but not in the third. It paid him some extra  compensation, so he 
could buy the relevant  amount  of miles for the second reward period if he wanted to. 
-Mr P has always insisted that he was invited to apply  for these extra  bonus miles.  When  
Mr P sent Virgin some  promotional material about  this bonus miles offer, Virgin  said it 
didnt know if that material had actually been  sent to him. It said that his name  wasnt on 
it, and it asked him to provide further information. And when Virgin wrote to our service, it 
said that Mr P hadnt supplied marketing information with his personal details on. 
-There didnt seem to be any name  on the marketing material that Mr P showed us. And 
sometimes marketing material isnt personally  addressed. So we asked Virgin where his 
name wouldve  shown  on the marketing information that it issued. 
-Virgin then said that theres never any name  shown on the marketing material for this 
promotion. Its only ever on the envelope. That fit with what Mr P said from the start. So it 
did seem  to me that it was a bit unhelpful for Virgin to ask Mr P for further evidence,  
when he was never going to be able to show Virgin a leaflet with his name on it. And 
Virgin told us that it had checked  its own databases, and it knew that Mr P wasnt 
included in any mailing for this extra offer. So there didnt seem to have  been  any reason 
to ask Mr P to provide further  evidence, if Virgin knew that Mr P didnt have  that.
-It did seem likely that Mr P wasnt actually invited to apply for this promotion. But it didnt 
seem as if Mr P knew that when he applied for the card. I said that he might just have 
opened a wrong envelope, by mistake. And, thinking he was going  to get this offer, Mr P 
paid Virgin £160 to hold the card for a year. Mr P pointed out that he hadnt  been offered 
a pro rata refund if he cancelled  his card. 
-I thought that Virgin had made genuine  and well-intentioned efforts to sort this problem 
out. Unfortunately, Id also noted  a number  of mistakes made by Virgin when it had been 
trying to resolve this issue.  
-Considering  this case as a whole, I thought  it was fair to ask Virgin to pay Mr P a little 
more compensation,  to make  up for its mistakes,  and for the fact that he had paid for a 
card which  didnt  include the benefits he thought he would  receive. 
-Virgin had already given Mr P a number of reward  miles,  and a payment of £105. I said 
Id bear that in mind when I thought about  the appropriate resolution in this case. I would 
Ref: DRN46987363also bear in mind that Mr Ps spending  for the third month was only just below the target 
spend to receive  6,000 more reward miles, and that he told us hed only missed that 
target because there was then some question about whether or not hed get the reward. 
-I thought it would be fair to ask Virgin to pay Mr P a further £105, to make up for what 
had gone wrong in this case.  From  what Virgin had told us, I understood that Mr P could 
then, if he wished,  use that money to buy the last instalment of 6,000 reward  miles which 
he thought he was going to get when he took out this card.  I thought that would  provide  a 
fair and reasonable resolution  to this complaint. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr P wrote to accept my decision. He said that what I was proposing to award was 
something hed asked Virgin to do. Virgin wanted  to make further comments, for me to 
consider before I reached my final view.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Virgin sent us a detailed response  to my provisional decision. It said that the fee Mr P had 
paid wasnt to hold the card but was an annual fee for this type of card,  which offered more 
reward miles than an alternative, free card. Virgin set out for us the differences  between the 
rewards available on both the fee-paid  and free cards.  Whilst it isnt clear from what Virgin  
has sent, it appears as if Virgin is suggesting that Mr P would still derive  a benefit from the 
fee he paid, even if he didnt get this extra offer. 
Virgin said that Mr P expected additional bonus  miles  from an offer that certain customers 
got a promotional mailing about, but this offer didnt show  on Mr Ps account. Virgin works 
with a partner  business to provide reward miles. And Virgin  said that it didnt  actually send 
out this mailing,  or select customers for the extra offer, itself. 
Virgin said it appreciated that it may have seemed unhelpful, to have asked Mr P to send 
evidence of the offer he believed he had received. It said it had done that in an effort  to 
identify why Mr P was so sure he was eligible for the offer. It said that it doesnt have access  
to the relevant data to confirm if Mr P had been  included in the mailing, so it couldnt  tell 
whether the offer shouldve  shown  on Mr Ps account or not.
I appreciate that this may have  been a well-intentioned attempt  to help Mr P. I dont think  
that Virgin intentionally asked Mr P to send evidence which he would never have had. But 
one of the reasons Mr P thought this offer should  show on his account was because Virgin 
had at first told him that. So I think its understandable that he was a bit reluctant to accept 
what Virgin said, when it changed its mind. And I still think  its unfortunate that what  Virgin  
then did amounted to asking  Mr P to send evidence  that he would never have  had. 
Virgin said it didnt have  access  to the database to just check  if Mr P had been included  in 
the mailing for this offer. But Virgin confirmed in its response to us that it has since  managed  
to find out that he wasnt  on that list. So it seems likely that Virgin did have the option to 
check that list, when  Mr P queried whether it should  be on his account or not. 
Ref: DRN46987364Virgin said that it thought that it was possible that someone  else in Mr Ps household had 
received the offer,  and Mr P had just presumed  he was also eligible. Virgin told us that 
Mr Ps partner  did receive the offer. 
Virgin said that it had made a goodwill  gesture of payment and reward  miles, to apologise for 
the fact that it had given Mr P incorrect information and to acknowledge that he felt he had 
received poor service.  It said that it agreed  with my comment that it had made well-
intentioned efforts to resolve the problem and it wanted me to consider its comments in 
making my final decision. 
Ive done that. I do think that Virgin made  a mistake when it told Mr P that he was eligible for 
the extra reward miles, and Virgin has accepted that. Because of that Mr P spent money  on 
this card,  that he couldve spent elsewhere.  He has lost out on the chance of other rewards,  
for quite  a high level of personal spending on a credit card. I also said that I thought  Virgin 
has tried to put things  right, but unfortunately ended up making a couple of further  mistakes  
when it did that. Its explained why it thinks that a well-intentioned attempt to help Mr P may 
have actually ended up being quite unhelpful.  
I think its right to acknowledge that Virgin has tried to sort this out. But I also still think that 
those attempts, unfortunately,  involved  a couple  of further mistakes. So I still think  Virgin 
hasnt done quite enough to make up for whats gone wrong here.  I still think that Virgin  
should pay Mr P the amount of £105 I suggested in my provisional decision.
Ill now make  the award I proposed there.
my final decision
My final decision is that Virgin Money  plc must  pay Mr P £105.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4698736