K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out the MPPI policy in 2003  with a mortgage.  They  paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. The policy covered just Mr D for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
The policy was sold as part of a package called a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). 
The TMPP also provided life cover. But Im only looking at the sale of the MPPI here, as 
thats what Mr and Mrs D have complained about.
I sent Mr and Mrs D and Bank of Scotland my provisional decision on 10 January 2019  
explaining why I wasnt intending to uphold the complaint. I said that before I made my final 
decision, Id consider any further information  from the parties, so long as I received it before 
10 February 2019.
I havent received  any further points from the parties in response  to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions as in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
Ive explained  my reasons again  below.
Ive decided that the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs D have said that the MPPI wasnt presented as optional. This mightve  
happened. However, the mortgage  paperwork  from the time set out that Mr and Mrs D 
didnt need to buy any insurance  through  Halifax,  and the only insurance it listed  as a 
condition of the mortgage was buildings insurance. Theres no way of me knowing now 
exactly what Mr and Mrs D were told at the time.  But Ive thought about what  I know 
about Bank  of Scotlands sales practice  then.  And taking  everything into account, I just 
dont think theres enough  here for me to say Bank of Scotland didnt present the MPPI as 
optional. So I think its most likely  that Bank of Scotland made it clear that Mr and Mrs D 
didnt have  to take out the MPPI and they chose to take it out.
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI  to Mr D so it had to check  that the MPPI was 
right for him  and based  on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time, 
I think that it was. For example Mr D wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  
on the MPPI cover.  And whilst  I understand Mr D has said he was entitled  to sick pay and 
that they had savings,  the policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months  if Mr D was unable  
to work  or lost his job, at what  couldve been  a difficult time. The mortgage was a 
significant financial commitment secured on their home.  And I think the MPPI was a 
Ref: DRN46887292sensible precaution.  So I dont think I can say it was wrong of Bank of Scotland  to 
recommend the cover.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs D about the MPPI wasnt  
as clear as it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have  put them off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs D have said. But for the reasons  explained  above,  
these points dont  change my conclusion.
This means  I dont  think the MPPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr and Mrs D paid for it. But Bank of Scotland  has already offered to give 
Mr and Mrs D back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think  it needs  to do anything  more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4688729