K820x#14complaint
Ms E complains  that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis- sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about the sale of PPI policy. The policy provided cover  for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms E disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms E says the PPI was sold to her at the same time she arranged  her mortgage in 1990. 
Santander on the other hand says the PPI was sold to Ms E in April 1996 and has provided 
us with a screenshot from the insurer to support  what  its said.  Having reviewed the available  
information, including the screenshot from the insurer, I think its more likely that the PPI was 
sold to Ms E in April 1996.
Santander says Ms E would have been given a choice about  the PPI. Theres limited  
information available from the time the PPI was sold to Ms E in 1996,  which  isnt unusual  
given the sale took place  over 23 years ago. As a result, Santander hasnt been able to 
provide us with copies  of Ms Es actual paperwork from the time of sale. So, Ive based my 
findings on the information I do have  and what I think is most likely to have happened at the 
time of sale.
Ms E says she was told that her mortgage application could be declined  if she didnt agree to 
the PPI. Given the PPI was added to Ms Es mortgage account some  years after her 
mortgage was arranged, I think its unlikely that Ms E would have thought she had to take 
the PPI in order to have  the mortgage. And I think its more  likely that she agreed to it, 
knowing she had a choice. 
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Ms E, and the policy  seems  to have been right 
for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time. She was eligible for cover  
and I cant see that she would have been affected  by any of things the policy didnt cover  
such as pre-existing medical  conditions.
Ms E has told us that she would have received six months full pay followed by six months 
half pay from her employer  if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us she had some 
savings as well as a critical illness policy and mortgage endowment policy  which she could  
have used to help cover her mortgage repayments.
Ref: DRN45812382Having thought about what  Ms E has said about  her sick pay and savings, I dont think  this 
means the PPI wasnt right for her. I say this because  the PPI would  have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Ms E would  have received from her employer and would have paid 
out for longer than she would receive full pay. Taking a mortgage is a large, long term 
financial commitment. If repayments arent met borrowers stand to lose their home.  The PPI 
would have covered the mortgage repayments for up to 12 months  for each  claim if Ms E 
was unable to work  because  of sickness or if she was ever made redundant. The PPI also 
would have enabled her to use her savings for any other financial commitments  she may 
have had at what  could be a difficult time.
Ive also thought about Ms E has told us about  her critical  illness  policy and mortgage 
endowment policy.  Using  what I know generally about critical illness policies, its likely that 
this type of policy would only pay a benefit  in the event  of serious illness.  So I dont think  this 
meant that the accident and sickness element of Ms Es PPI policy  was unsuitable.  Ive also 
considered what  Ms E has said about  her endowment policy.  But the PPI would have meant 
that she didnt  need to surrender her endowment  policy   which  presumably she would have 
wanted to keep for the reasons she originally took it out.
In addition to making  sure the policy was suitable for Ms E, Santander also had to give her 
clear enough  information  about  the PPI. I think its possible that Santander didnt give her all 
the information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt  as clear  as it should have 
been, for the reasons  Ive already explained,  I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have stopped Ms E buying  it.
Finally, Ms E has said that she feels that her policy was mis-sold because  Santander  didnt 
tell her about any commission it may have earned  on the premiums she paid for her policy.  
But the rules and the Supreme Court  judgment in relation to undisclosed commission  relate 
to the unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair  relationship 
provisions  which were added to the Consumer Credit Act in 2006   came into force  on 
6 April 2007. The changes made  in 2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions 
would only apply to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements  
taken out before then, which were still running  on 6 April 2008. In this case,  Ms Es mortgage  
ended in 2004. So Santander  doesnt  need to refund any of the commission Ms E paid for 
the PPI she had with her mortgage.
 Based  on what Ive said above, I dont think its likely the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4581238