K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains about the end of contract  refurbishment costs LeasePlan UK Limited 
(LeasePlan) asked  her to pay when  she returned a car she was financing  with them.
background
Mrs P took receipt of a new car in June 2016. She financed the deal through a hire 
agreement with LeasePlan and returned the car at the end of that agreement.
But she was disappointed when she received an invoice from them  asking her to pay for 
repairs the company  said were necessary  to return the car to the condition  stipulated by the 
contract. LeasePlan dropped one of the charges and the outstanding charges are now as 
follows:
bonnet scratch  £143
rear bumper scratch £150
near side door scratch £93 
Mrs P complained to LeasePlan. She said she thought the scratches were fair wear and tear 
and that the pictures in the inspection report didnt demonstrate they were  as serious as 
LeasePlan said they were. She also complained that LeasePlan had treated her original 
enquiries as a complaint and had issued  their final response on that basis. She said this 
didnt given them enough  time for understanding and recourse.
LeasePlan said the damage was evidently beyond reasonable wear  and tear and was fairly 
chargeable.
So Mrs P referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  her opinion. 
She explained that the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA) provided the 
industry guidelines about what  should  be considered fair wear and tear. So she considered  
the pictures in the report against  this standard. She said that the BVRLA guidance  said:
scratches and abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable, relative to the vehicles age and 
mileage, and provided the primer or bare metal  is not showing.
She thought  bare metal was showing  in the picture  of the scratches  to the bonnet and the 
door and that the scratch to the bumper was longer than 25mm. So she thought the charges 
had been fairly made.
But Mrs P disagreed. She said bare metal  wasnt visible on the picture of the bonnet or the 
door and it wasnt possible to work out if the bumper scratch  was longer than 25mm.  So she 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mrs P so please let me explain 
why.
Ref: DRN44851552Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs P acquired her car under a hire agreement. The hire agreement is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of Mrs Ps finance agreement said that the car should be returned  in good and 
substantial repair (fair wear and tear excepted).
As the adjudicator has explained, its the BVRLA  who provide the guidance  on what  should  
be considered  fair wear  and tear when cars are returned at the end of a hire period. 
So Ive reviewed the photographs provided by the company who inspected Mrs Ps car and 
for the same reasons  the adjudicator has given I agree that each area of damage is beyond 
what the BVRLA would  consider fair wear and tear. 
The guidance says that scratches smaller  than 25mm  are acceptable if bare metal  is not 
showing and it goes  on to explain  that a maximum of four surface  scratches are acceptable.
I think bare metal is visible on the bonnet and the door and I can see more  than four 
scratches on the bumper  one of which, using the ruler thats been provided  for guidance, 
appears to be a little over 25mm. 
So I think all of the charges have been  fairly applied.
I understand Mrs P is disappointed LeasePlan took her early enquiries  about the charges as 
a complaint. She thinks this meant she was prevented from making a more  fulsome  reply  
and didnt give her enough time for understanding and recourse. But I dont  think this has 
disadvantaged Mrs P as I dont think it would have changed the outcome here and Im 
persuaded she has been able to develop a full understanding and had sufficient access to 
recourse through  this process.
So I think LeasePlans actions have been reasonable and Im not asking them to take any 
further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4485155