K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a regular premium payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy taken out in connection  with a credit  card.
Background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in November 2001.  The policy cost 
no more than 79p per £100  of the outstanding card balance and covered Miss C in the event 
she wasnt working due to accident,  sickness or unemployment. Following a successful 
claim, it would repay 5% of the outstanding  balance at the point of claim for 11 months  and 
then clear the balance at month 12 if she was still unable to work. The policy would also pay 
the outstanding balance  up to £10,000 in the event of Miss Cs death. 
Lloyds says the credit card lending finished  no later than June 2006.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Cs case.
Lloyds says this was an advised sale so it not only had to provide Miss C with enough 
information about the policy so she could make an informed decision about  it. It also had to 
ensure the policy  was right or suitable  for her based  on her needs and circumstances at the 
time. 
did Lloyds make it clear  to Miss C she had a choice about  PPI?
Lloyds has provided  a copy of Miss Cs credit card application form which shows a tick in a 
box by the PPI on the form indicating she has chosen to take it out, and she has signed the 
application form. Although Miss C has said the form was filled in by the advisor, it wasnt  
unusual for a business to complete the form for the consumer to sign following a discussion 
in a branch. 
So I think it is more likely  than not Lloyds presented the policy to Miss C as optional  and she 
chose to take it out. 
did things  happen  as they should have done  was Miss  C properly  advised and 
informed?
if not  has Miss C lost out?
I dont have enough evidence to know whether Lloyds advised Miss C with reasonable care 
and skill. But, based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that the PPI 
policy was suitable  for her. 
She was eligible for the policy and she has told us that in 2001she was in good health,  in 
employment, and she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Ref: DRN42674942Miss C says she may have had some occupational sick pay entitlement  which would have  
helped her if things  went  wrong. But the policy would  have  paid out in addition  to her sick 
pay and until she recovered  or the balance was cleared. It would also pay out if she lost her 
job until she returned to employment or her balance was cleared. Miss C says she had no 
savings or other means to help her repayments.  So I think  Miss C had a need  for her cover  
and it would have  been useful to her if she found  herself unable to work. It would have 
helped her financially  at what  would be a difficult time.
I have seen nothing  to suggest that the policy  was unaffordable  for Miss C. The 
PPI transactions  and costs wouldve appeared on her monthly credit card statements, and in 
the event that the costs werent acceptable to Miss C, or became unaffordable,  she couldve 
cancelled the policy at any point without penalty.  But she didnt for several  years.
I dont have enough evidence to know whether Lloyds provided Miss C with sufficient 
information to make an informed decision about  her PPI. But as Ive decided above the 
policy was suitable  for her, I think on the balance of probabilities its unlikely that more 
information about the PPI wouldve caused her to decide not to take the PPI out. 
Miss C says that at the same time as taking out PPI with her credit card she took out PPI 
with loans, and that the loans PPI has been  refunded by Lloyds. While  I take this into 
account, I must decide this case on the evidence  related to the credit  card PPI sale and 
Lloyds decision to refund  PPI on her loans does not change  my view of the credit card PPI 
sale. 
So overall, while I think there mayve been  some failings in the sale of the PPI, I think its 
more likely than not, that Miss C had a choice and chose  to take out the PPI policy, that it 
was suitable for her and I dont think she would have  come to a different decision and turned 
down the PPI if Lloyds had given  her more information. So I dont think Miss C lost out as a 
result of anything Lloyds did wrong when it sold her PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Miss C has not lost out as a result  of taking 
out PPI with her credit  card, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4267494