K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Caxton FX Ltd has unfairly applied domestic transaction charges to his 
account despite the transactions  being made abroad.
background
Mr G has a prepaid Caxton card and has been  charged when using it to make payments 
while abroad. Hes specifically raised concerns about four payments hes been  charged for, 
three completed in the US and one in Italy.  
Caxton says that the payments in question were all processed in the UK so are classified as 
domestic and were chargeable. Caxton also says that it has no influence  on how a merchant 
processes a transaction and cant give Mr G warning before the fee applies. 
Mr G referred  his complaint to this service and an investigator looked  at it. He didnt feel 
Caxton had made a mistake by applying the fee so didnt ask it to take any further  action. 
Mr G didnt agree and asked for his case to be appealed  so its been passed to me to make  
a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Gs frustration here. Hes been charged for making transactions  that, on 
the face of it, have  no relationship to the UK. And I appreciate  that its not obvious how a 
transactions going to be processed at the point of sale.  But I need to be fair to both sides.  
And I think Caxtons made  some  reasonable points here. 
Caxtons explained  that the four transactions in question were all routed  via the UK which  
means they were  treated  as domestic and the fee applied. And whilst I accept everything 
Mr G says about what he understood when he made  the payments, I havent found  Caxtons 
made a mistake.  
Caxton has no influence  on how a merchant processes a transaction.  Even  if the merchant 
operates outside of the UK and accepts payments in different currencies, its banking  
arrangements can still take place here. And thats the key to this complaint. Caxtons 
supplied evidence to show  the payments Mr Gs complained about were all processed via 
the UK so I think the domestic transaction fee has been fairly applied.  
Mr G complains that he wasnt notified  in advance of Caxton applying the fee. But due to the 
nature of the transactions  the fee is applied for I wouldnt expect the Caxton to provide a 
warning in advance. The fees Caxton will apply  are set out clearly  in its tariff of charges so 
Mr G is aware  hell be charged for a domestic transaction. The transactions Ive looked at 
were all processed in the UK so I havent  found anything to show Caxtons made a mistake. 
Caxton said Mr G could check with a merchant before making a payment to see how it will 
be processed. I appreciate thats  not going  to be convenient in all cases. But as Caxton has 
no influence on how a merchant processes  payments,  theres nothing it can do in advance to 
ensure Mr G is aware if a domestic transaction fee will apply. 
Ref: DRN45117212Ultimately, Mr G and Caxton are both bound by the terms  of the account. So Mr G knows a 
charge will be applied  if a domestic transaction is made and is now aware that it may not 
always be obvious how a merchant will process  a payment. For the reasons Ive given above 
Im satisfied the domestic transaction  fees have  been correctly  applied so Im not telling 
Caxton to refund them  or take any further action. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4511721