K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  Uncle Buck  provided  to Mr C between  
December 2017  and July 2018.  Mr Cs lending history is as follows:
Loan 1 for £100 taken in December  2017  and to be repaid in three  monthly 
instalments with the highest being  £46.25.  
Loan 2 for £250 taken in March  2018 and to be repaid in three monthly instalments 
with the highest being £104.18.
Loan 3 for £200 taken in July 2018 and to be repaid in three monthly instalments with 
the highest being £78.58. 
Mr C repaid all his loans.  Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint should  be 
upheld. Mr C disagreed  and the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Ref: DRN42682972Uncle Buck  asked Mr C for his monthly income,  which he said was £1,500. It asked him 
about his monthly  outgoings and Mr C said his disposable income was between  £500 and 
£300 a month.  And Uncle Buck checked  Mr Cs credit report for each loan. Mr C told us that 
he was reliant on payday  loans and couldnt  afford to repay them in a sustainable manner. 
He said Uncle Bucks  checks  of his credit report would have shown the extent of his 
borrowing and a number  of defaults.
But given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Cs circumstances  at the time and 
his history with Uncle Buck, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the 
amount of information  needed to show the lending was unsustainable. I cant see that Uncle  
Bucks searches of Mr Cs file showed any recent  defaults that should  have  prompted  it to 
make further  checks. So there  wasnt anything in the information Mr C provided or the 
information Uncle Buck shouldve  been aware of, which meant  it wouldve been  
proportionate to start verifying what Mr C was saying. 
And so, as it looked  like Mr C had sufficient  disposable income to repay his loans 
sustainably, I cant say it was wrong  for Uncle Buck to have provided them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4268297