K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited is responsible  for poor service  in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with a complaint against one insurer or other  
regulated financial  firm at a time. Where a consumer brings  us a complaint about  an 
insurance claim we deal with it as a complaint against the insurance company. We name 
that company  in our decision. We dont  name  other parties.
Acromas was the insurer responsible for dealing  with claims under Mr Hs policy.  It was 
branded with the name of a members organisation that transferred its business  to a home 
assistance company.  Where I refer to Acromas  or the insurer I include other businesses and 
individuals for whose actions I hold Acromas  responsible.
For a number of years  Mr H had had a home  emergency policy.  It covered home 
emergencies including  electrical failure.  It also covered his central heating. Mr H had a boiler 
fuelled by LPG (liquid petroleum gas). 
Mr H had some boiler repairs under the policy, including in 2016  and 2017.  In January 2018 
the insurer helped  with an electrical  problem.  In February 2018  Mr Hs boiler broke down.  He 
complained about the response from the insurer. Its final response letter  in March 2018 said 
it was sending him £250.00 for the inconvenience caused.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. His complaint form included  the following points:
1.The insurer couldnt repair his boiler because of the transfer of business from the 
members organisation  to the home assistance  company.
2.The insurer sent uncertified engineers who did illegal repairs. 
3.The insurer went back of an offer of repair, resulting  in a costly  boiler  replacement.
4.Mr H complains that the insurer should reimburse  his expenses and refund his 
premiums.
5.He also says the insurer should make  a report under the Ridor scheme.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She didnt think 
that the insurer had dealt  with all aspects  of Mr Hs complaint fairly. She recommended  that 
the insurer should pay Mr H an additional £100.00 compensation for trouble and upset.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to Acromas on 27 September 2019.  I summarise my findings:
Id found evidence of some  delay, poor communication and withdrawal of an offer of 
a fixed price repair. Whilst I hadnt found that these shortcomings caused Mr H a 
Ref: DRN43426312recoverable financial loss, I found that they caused Mr H distress  and inconvenience 
at an already difficult time for him.
I kept in mind that the policy provided  for a BER payment of £250.00. So I didnt think  
the final response letter or the investigators recommendation went  far enough to 
compensate him. 
Subject to any further information from Mr H or from Acromas, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct  Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited  to pay Mr H  in addition to the £250.00 it had paid - a further £250.00 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Acromas accepts the provisional decision.
Mr H disagrees  with the provisional decision.  He says, in summary, that:
The boiler was newly fitted in 2007.
The boiler was always serviced by the insurer or its subcontractors.
The insurer was taking money for cover they were unable to provide. 
On two separate occasions after routine services in 2012 & 2015 the insurer had to 
attend after the service where  they found  damaged gaskets which caused cables, 
electrodes etc. to be replaced.  On the 2012 visit the Co2 emissions were 
dangerously high  which was RIDOR reportable.  The engineer who found  this was 
not registered for LPG.
The insurer used uncertified engineers  who caused unseen unrepaired damage to 
the boiler which later failed. 
An uncertified electrician admitted he shouldnt be working on the side of the 
consumer unit he was working on.  A qualified electrician attended and said that this 
was also RIDOR reportable.
The insurer made promises  but then reneged on them - and generally  lied.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at over twenty transcripts of telephone calls.
boiler repairs 2012
Mr H has recently  sent us a record of a visit in November 2012. It includes a record as 
follows:
Co2% VERY HIGH
So I accept  that there  had been a problem in 2012.
Ref: DRN43426313But theres not enough detail or engineering evidence to show that the insurer  was 
responsible for poor quality servicing or repairs at that time. So theres  not enough detail or 
engineering evidence to show that poor quality repairs  caused  problems  later.
boiler repairs 2015
Mr H has recently  sent us records of visits in August  2015.  These  include a record as follows
Boiler  inoperable
Main heat exchanger  seal damaged
And I can see that the insurer  said it needed new parts including electrodes, a gasket and an 
ignition lead.
But theres not enough detail or engineering evidence to show that the insurer  was 
responsible for poor quality servicing or repairs at that time. So theres  not enough detail or 
engineering evidence to show that poor quality repairs  caused  problems  later.
boiler repairs 2016 and 2017
Ive seen the insurers notes of some  boiler repairs in 2016 and 2017. Theres  no evidence  
that Mr H complained at that time. And theres  not enough detail or engineering evidence  to 
show that the insurer was responsible for poor quality servicing or repairs  at that time. So 
theres not enough detail  or engineering evidence to show that poor quality repairs caused 
problems later.
policy terms on renewal April 2017
The applicable  policy  terms were  those dated  6 July 2016. The policy  renewal date was in 
early April 2017. Mr H had cover  called Home  Emergency Response and Central Heating 
Plus.
The policy terms said that a boiler  would be beyond economic repair (BER) if the parts  
required to make a repair  are no longer readily  available or  in the case  of a boiler  ten or 
more years old - the cost of parts (including  VAT) required  to repair  it exceeds its current  
value based on age and condition. If a boiler was ten or more  years old, the insurer  would 
make a BER payment  of £250.00.
The policy terms also said that the insurer would reimburse accommodation costs up to 
£150.00 per night (including VAT) for up to 7 nights where an emergency made Mr Hs home 
uninhabitable for 48 hours  or more.  There was an exclusion for meals  (including drinks), 
parking, or any other extra costs that exceed  the basic  room rate.
electrical repair January  2018
Ive seen the insurers notes of an electrical repair in January 2018. Theres  no evidence  that 
Mr H complained at that time. Theres not enough  detail or technical evidence to show  that 
the insurer was responsible for poor quality - or illegal - repairs  at that time.
As Mr H had made a claim  and received service under the policy, I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct  the insurer to refund any of his premiums.
Ref: DRN43426314boiler breakdown  February 2018
Mr H already had a problem when he and his wife contacted the insurer  on 
22 February 2018. His boiler had broken down so he had no central heating. Thats  why he 
contacted the insurer.  I think  it was bound to take at least a day or two to resolve his 
problem.
I accept that the insurer gave  Mr H some  conflicting and incorrect information  about the 
involvement of the home assistance  company.
The insurer  didnt respond as quickly as it mightve done. It arranged  a visit on 
Saturday 24 February. 
But the insurer had offered to pay for any engineer Mr H could  find sooner. And it arranged 
hotel accommodation.
It took until 27 February for the insurer to decide  the boiler was BER.   Mr H disagreed with 
the insurers figures (around  £1,000.00) for the cost of repairs. But I find it likely  that those 
costs were more than the value of the old boiler. So I dont find that the insurer  treated Mr H 
unfairly by saying it was BER. 
The insurer  offered Mr H the alternatives  of a £250.00 BER contribution  or a repair  for a 
fixed price.  It later withdrew its offer of a repair. I think this was because the boiler supplier 
said Mr Hs boiler was in poor condition.
I dont think the insurer  treated  Mr H fairly by making  an offer and then withdrawing  it. But I 
note that  rather than paying for a repair  Mr H decided to have a new boiler. I think  this 
shows that the time had come for him to pay for a new boiler.  So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct  the insurer to contribute more than £250.00 towards  the cost of that.
health and safety
I think Mr H is referring to the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences 
Regulations. But I dont  think  hes saying there  was any injury or disease.  And theres not 
enough detail  or engineering evidence to show that the insurer  was responsible  for causing  
or reporting a dangerous occurrence.
overall
Ive found evidence of some  delay, poor communication and withdrawal of an offer of a fixed  
price repair.  Whilst  I havent found  that these shortcomings caused  Mr H a recoverable  
financial loss, I find that they caused  Mr H distress  and inconvenience  at an already difficult  
time for him.
I keep in mind that the policy provided for a BER payment of £250.00. So I dont think  the 
final response letter or the investigators  recommendation  went far enough to compensate 
him. I find it fair and reasonable  to direct the insurer to pay Mr H  in addition to the £250.00 
it has paid - a further £250.00 for distress  and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN43426315my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Acromas Insurance  Company Limited to pay Mr H  in addition  to the £250.00  it has 
paid - a further  £250.00 for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4342631