K820x#14complaint
Miss P says Cash On Go Limited  (trading  as Peachy) irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about a high-cost short-term loan Peachy provided  to Miss P in December 
2018. Miss P borrowed an initial amount of £150 which was to be paid back  in one 
instalment of £183.60. Just under two weeks later, Miss P topped up this loan by a further 
£80 and arranged  to pay the whole  amount  in six monthly instalments, with the highest 
instalment payment being around  £80.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Ps complaint and thought Peacheys checks  for the loan 
went far enough. Miss P disagreed so the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Peachy needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Peachy should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ps complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Miss P disagreed with the adjudicators  view because she thought Peachys checks  didnt go 
far enough and it should have been  aware that she was struggling financially and had other  
borrowing from short-term lenders as well as other debts. So, it shouldnt have lent to her.
Ref: DRN47481452Peachy has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving  any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Miss P about her employment status and she confirmed she 
was employed and had a monthly income of £2,340. Peachy also checked Miss Ps normal  
monthly living costs. Miss P declared these  as £1,580 per month. Peachy says it also 
searched Miss Ps credit file, but it hasnt provided the results of its search. But Ive seen a 
copy of her credit file and there werent any recent  adverse  entries like defaults  or county 
court judgements (CCJs)  recorded on it at the time the loan was taken out.
The loan was Miss Ps first one with Peachy and so she had no history of borrowing 
previously from this lender. And even though she had to make  six monthly  repayments,  the 
highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the information  she declared 
to Peachy.  And there wasnt  anything in the information Miss P provided which would have 
given Peachy cause  for concern, So I think it was reasonable  of Peachy to have relied on 
what Miss P gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact  of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Peachy to carry out. Given  these, I think the checks Peachy  carried  out before lending the 
loan went far enough  and I wouldnt  have  expected  it at this stage  to undertake  any more in-
depth checks. 
The information Miss P declared to Peachy at the time of the loans may not have been an 
accurate reflection of her financial circumstances, but I think Peachy was entitled  to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what  Peachy knew about     
Miss P, I wouldnt have expected Peachy to verify the information Miss P gave it. This 
therefore means, I cant say that its done something wrong in lending  Miss P this loan.
I appreciate that my findings  are likely  to disappoint Miss P, but I hope my explanation will 
help her understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Miss Ps complaint  and make no award against Cash On Go Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4748145