K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way in which a section 75 complaint was dealt with by 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC.
background
Mr W raised a section  75 claim  with Tesco regarding a stainless steel exhaust system which 
had been fitted to his car. Hes explained that when he contacted Tesco  about his claim he 
was asked to send supporting documents to a designated  email  address. Mr W says he sent 
his documents  and received an acknowledgement. Later on, Mr W was advised by Tesco 
that it hadnt received his documents because they had been sent to an incorrect  email  
address.
Mr W says he was advised during the call that this was his error and that Tesco wouldnt 
have provided  him with an incorrect email address. He says the call handler was rude and 
that the conversation was unacceptable in both tone and content. Hes unhappy that he had 
to provide all of his documents again and that the progress of his claim was delayed  as a 
result.
To resolve  his complaint  Mr W wants Tesco to acknowledge that it made  an error and to pay 
compensation.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that whilst  it was likely that there had 
been an error by Tesco  in losing  Mr Ws supporting documents, she didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Tesco to ask for the information again. The investigator also said that the 
manner in which Tesco asked for the information  wasnt unprofessional or rude. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said the call hander had insisted that he had sent his documents to 
the wrong email  address and imped  that he was lying when he said hed been  told to use 
this email address.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws complaint  relates to the content  and tone of a telephone conversation with a Tesco 
call handler. Hes also unhappy that Tesco says it didnt receive an email he sent because  
he received an acknowledgement saying it had been received. As part of my consideration 
of this complaint  Ive listened to all of the available calls between Mr W and Tesco.  Ive also 
looked at the acknowledgement which Mr W received in response to his email. Mr Ws email 
attaching his supporting documents is no longer available.
I can see that Mr W sent two emails to Tesco in August 2018. The first email  was 
acknowledged at 16.09 and the second email  (which included Mr Ws documents) was 
acknowledged at 16.13. The emails were  sent to an email address which Mr W says he was 
asked to use in an earlier conversation with Tesco in July 2018.
Based on what Ive seen,  I think Mr W was told to use the email address he used.  Im also 
satisfied that having  sent the email  to this email address, he received acknowledgements  for 
Ref: DRN40885382both emails. I can therefore understand how frustrating it mustve  been for Mr W to receive  a 
call from Tesco in which he was advised that his documents hadnt  been received.
Ive noted Mr Ws concerns about this call, in particular his concerns that the call handler  
insisted that hed sent his documents to the wrong email address and implied that Mr W 
wasnt telling  the truth when he said hed been told to use this email address.
Ive listened carefully  to the call. The call handler says he can see that Mr W sent his email 
to the disputes  team  and explained that he was unable  to obtain it from that team. The call 
handler asks Mr W to re-send the email  to a different email address. I can see how Mr W 
might interpret this as being told that hed used the wrong email address but I dont think  this 
was the call handlers intention. The call handler didnt say that Mr W hadnt  sent the email, 
nor did he say that Mr W used an incorrect email address.
Its clear from the call that the call handler suspects that the disputes  team  has misplaced 
the email. There hasnt been  an explicit  acknowledgement by Tesco  that this was what 
happened but it seems  very likely that the email wasnt uploaded to Mr Ws file as a result of 
human error. This is why the call handler wanted Mr W to re-send the email.
Having listened  to the call, I cant say that the call handler was rude or combative. Its clear 
that Mr W was frustrated  with the situation  and rightly so. Mr W has said that the call handler 
implied that he was lying when  he explained that hed been told to use a particular email 
address. I dont think the call handler  implied  that Mr W was lying, but he did say that it 
wasnt himself  personally who had asked Mr W to use the disputes  team  email address and I 
can see how Mr W might have felt that this implied that he was lying.  However, I dont think  
this was the call handlers intention. Its more likely that his words were  misinterpreted by Mr 
W.
My overall impression of the call is that the call handler is doing his best to progress Mr Ws 
case and address Mr Ws frustration. Its unfortunate that Mr Ws documents were lost due to 
an error by Tesco but I cant say that it was unreasonable for Tesco to ask for them again 
and I dont think the manner in which they were requested  was unreasonable. The call 
handler acknowledged towards  the end of the conversation that Mr W was entitled to make a 
complaint about  his documents going  missing and I think he acted fairly in registering this 
complaint for Mr W.
Ive taken into account what Mr W has said about having to spend extra time re-sending the 
documents in support of his claim.  During  the call in August 2018 the call handler suggested 
to Mr W that he forward his original email. I appreciate that it may have taken Mr W some  
time to compile his original email and attach various  documents but I dont think he would 
have been inconvenienced by forwarding  this email to a different email address.
Taking everything into account,  Im of the view that there was an error by Tesco  in losing  Mr 
Ws documents. But I dont think Tesco acted unreasonably in asking Mr W to provide  the 
documents again. I appreciate that Mr W feels strongly  that the call handler implied that he 
was lying and was rude to him but having  listened  to the call I dont find that this was the 
case. Because of this I wont be asking Tesco to do anything  further.
Ref: DRN40885383my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 January 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4088538