K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that his section 75 claim under  the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 hasnt been 
upheld by Bank of Scotland  plc.
background
Mr M paid for a holiday  flat using  his credit card. Mr M claims the holiday flat was not as had 
been described and in fact had a serious infestation problem.  Mr M made a section 75 claim  
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  He believes Bank of Scotland should  be jointly liable 
for any breaches of contract or misrepresentations made by the supplier. 
Bank of Scotland didnt uphold this complaint.  They believe the debtor  creditor  supplier 
chain has been  broken.  This is due to the involvement of a third party. Bank  of Scotland did 
however offer to pay Mr M £50 compensation to acknowledge the customer  service  failing in 
the delay of responding to him. Unhappy with this decision, the matter was referred to our 
service.
An adjudicator has already looked at this complaint. He didnt uphold  the complaint and felt 
the claim failed under  section 75. 
In light of Mr M remaining  unhappy, the case  has now been referred to me for careful 
consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I too am unable to uphold  this complaint 
for the reasons expressed by the adjudicator.
As has already  been explained by both Bank  of Scotland and the adjudicator, in order  for a 
section 75 claim to be successful there  must be an unbroken chain between the debtor, 
creditor and supplier. Im afraid in this case Mr M actually  made  the payment to a third party. 
This third party was acting  as the lettings agent.  The third party collected the payment from 
Mr M, on behalf  of the landlord/property owner. 
Having carefully considered all of the evidence I believe the chain has indeed been  broken. 
And this therefore  means the section  75 claim is unsuccessful. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4171767