K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that despite paying cash for some  purchases they were also charged to her 
store card provided by NewDay Ltd. She wants a refund.
background
The retailer  said the receipts Ms B has shown the payments for both transactions  were 
made with a store card not cash. The store has also double checked  its takings for the day 
and they balance. 
NewDay says that Ms B opened  the store card account and a temporary  card was issued 
allowing purchases  to be made straight  away. She mayve been asked for a debit or credit 
card by the store staff but thats only for proof of identity not to debit  payments  from. 
Purchases on the new card allow a discount  to be applied. Theres  no evidence Ms B paid 
with cash.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said 
NewDay and the retailer  have provided evidence  to show the transactions  were  
made in store using a credit  card.  Ms B also hasnt been able to provide any 
evidence that the payments were made with cash and she says she received a 
discount on the purchases.
On the available evidence she isnt satisfied  the purchases were made using cash.  
Its also unlikely Ms B wouldve been  given the discount if using cash  as it relates to 
credit card payment.  Its more  likely the purchases were  made  on the card. Shes not 
persuaded NewDay has made an error.
Ms B remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. She wants a refund. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
The receipts provided by Ms B show she paid for these purchase on her card.  And the 
retailer says its takings  for the day balance. Its also been pointed  out that although Ms B 
mayve been asked for a debit or credit card to verify  her identity, it wasnt used for the 
payments. And if shed  paid with cash,  she wouldnt have been given the discount shown on 
the receipts.
Taking everything into account  I dont think on balance that Ms B has shown that she paid 
with cash. And I think its more likely  she paid for these two purchases on her card,  than not. 
Im not persuaded that Ms B was charged twice  for these two purchases as she suggests. 
And I dont  think I can fairly  or reasonably ask NewDay  to make any refund to her as shed 
like.
Ref: DRN44262982Overall I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4426298