K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid)  irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about six payday loans  and a running account (flex credit)  facility that 
Quick Quid provided to Mr C from April 2010  onwards. Mr Cs last loan was provided in 
August 2013.  Our adjudicator upheld Mr Cs complaint and thought that he shouldnt have 
been provided with loan six and any further funds after the second drawdown  on the flex 
credit facility. Quick Quid disagreed. So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr C, I think that Quick  Quid 
should reasonably have  seen that Mr C was unlikely to have been able to make his 
payments in a sustainable manner when it provided  loan six and the third drawdown  on the 
flex credit facility. I say this because:
by loan six, Mr C was into his seventh  month of owing Quick  Quid  money (in this 
chain of lending). In my view,  Mr Cs loan history up until this point was in itself a 
Ref: DRN44288702clear demonstration  of his inability to settle his loans over the life of the credit 
agreement.   
Mr C was provided with the third drawdown on his flex credit  facility  even after he 
was late in making a payment. So Quick Quid ought to have realised that Mr C may 
have been experiencing financial difficulty and offered assistance instead of allowing 
Mr C to drawdown further expensive credit. 
Mr C had to pay interest  and charges on advances that Quick Quid shouldnt have provided 
him with. So I think that he lost out and Quick  Quid should put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loan six;
remove all interest and charges added to the flex credit  facility from the third 
drawdown (9 September 2013) onwards. The payments Mr C made should be used 
to reduce the new balance. Any payments Mr C made over and above  the new 
balance should  be treated  as overpayments;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest,  charges and 
overpayments from the date they were  paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Its possible that an outstanding balance may remain  on the flex credit  facility  even after all 
adjustments have  been made.  Should  this be the case, Quick Quid can deduct  this amount 
from the compensation it needs to pay for loan six, if it wishes to do so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Cs complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019. 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4428870