K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  them a mortgage  payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
In 1998, Mr and Mrs M took out an MPPI policy to cover a mortgage.  The mortgage had 
started in 1997.  Mr and Mrs M paid a monthly amount for the MPPI, which only covered  
Mr M. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  because:
I think its likely that Bank of Scotland made Mr and Mrs M aware  that they had a choice 
about buying the MPPI, and they chose to take it. I say this because the MPPI didnt start 
until sometime after the mortgage  did. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs M, and it seems  to have been 
right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. While  Mr M 
had six months full sick pay, and six months  half sick pay, the MPPI wouldve  paid out 
on top of this for up to 12 months. So his sick pay wouldve been left available  for other 
things. The MPPI  also covered him for unemployment. And Mr and Mrs M had no other 
means of making repayments. 
I think Bank of Scotland couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But 
even if it had, I think Mr and Mrs M would still have bought it. Falling  behind  with their 
mortgage repayments couldve led to them losing their home. And given their 
circumstances, I think  the MPPI  wouldve provided a useful benefit if Mr M was unable to 
work, as it would have  reduced  the risk of that happening.    
Its possible that Bank of Scotland didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But Mr and Mrs M dont appear  to have been affected by any of those  things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ms comments,  including what  they said about not being 
able to claim while receiving sick pay. But these points dont change my conclusion. The 
MPPI wouldve paid out alongside any sick pay that Mr M was receiving, so this wouldnt 
have stopped them from claiming. 
Ref: DRN47504072my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4750407