K821x#15complaint
Ms W complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
Ms W borrowed six loans between  September  2012  and June 2013.  The loan amounts 
varied from £150 to £450. Ive set out some of the loan information  in the table below;
loan 
numberdate taken loan amount 
(£)date repaidmax 
repayment
(£)
1 15/09/12 300 15/10/12 390
2 15/10/12 250 14/12/12 325
3 15/12/12 200 04/02/13 260
4 09/04/13 150 15/05/13 195
5 23/05/13 150 14/06/13 195
6 16/06/13 450 15/01/13 585
Loan 1 was due to be repaid in one instalment and all subsequent loans were  due to be 
repaid in two instalments. Ms W went into debt management after taking  out loan 6.
Ms W complained to Mr Lender  about  all her loans but it didnt uphold any part of her 
complaint. Mr Lender said it carried out proportionate checks before lending  and acted 
positively when it became aware  she was in debt management.
Unhappy with Mr Lenders response, Ms W referred her complaint to this service.  One of our 
adjudicators looked  at her complaint and thought that Mr Lender didnt irresponsibly lend 
loans 1 to 3. Our adjudicator thought that Ms W had been reliant  on the loans from loan 4 
onwards and so Mr Lender shouldnt have lent her those loans.
Mr Lender didnt give any reasons for disagreeing with our adjudicator  but asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. Ms W accepted  the adjudication  and as theres  been  no further 
dispute about loans 1 to 3, my decision focusses  on loans 4 to 6
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN42463662But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Ms W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because The Office of Fair Tradings guidance  ILG expected  lenders to 
check that loan repayments were  sustainable  for borrowers. And it follows  that a lender 
should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to 
make their repayments sustainably if they have to borrow further to meet  those repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ws complaint.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders  lending history with Ms W, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Ws case,  I think that this point was reached  by 
loan 4. I say this because:
From  loan 4 onwards  Ms W was provided with a new loan less than two months after 
settling a previous  one. While  there was a gap here,  this gap wasnt  sufficient to 
allow Mr Lender reasonably believe Ms Ws finances had improved. And so
Mr Lender ought  to have  realised it was more likely that Ms W had to borrow  further 
to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that Ms 
Ws indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Ms W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Mr Lender.  Loan  6 
was taken out 9 months after Ms Ws first. And it was for a larger amount. Ms W had 
paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service  a debt to Mr Lender over a long 
period.
Ref: DRN42463663I think that Ms W lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ws indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
these loans were likely  to have had negative implications on Ms Ws ability  to access  
mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 4 onwards and Mr Lender should  put things right.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms W paid on loans  4 to 6;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan 4 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 4 to 6 should be removed from 
Ms Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest.  Mr Lender must  give 
Ms W a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Ws complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should pay Ms W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4246366