K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Coutts & Company:
-mis-sold him a bridging loan in 2007;
-has taken an aggressive approach to recovering repayment of debt even though  hes 
maintained interest payments;
-has made low interest rate products available to other customers in recent years but 
it hasnt offered these  products to Mr P;
-has caused him and his family  stress, anxiety and ill health  due to its actions; and
-hasnt been  supportive in helping  him find alternative finance with another  lender.
background
In 2001 Mr P took out a mortgage with Coutts  to purchase Property A. In 2007  he took out a 
further bridging loan with Coutts to purchase  Property B while he tried to sell Property A.
Following the financial  crisis, Mr P tried to sell Property A. He was left unable  to repay his 
mortgage or the bridging loan. Mr P complains that Coutts will only grant  him short  term 
extensions to the bridging facility and Mr P has struggled to sell his properties.
In 2015 Mr P was given  notice that hed need  to move his banking facilities  elsewhere.  In 
January 2016  Mr Ps accounts were moved  to Coutts  Debt Management Operations  
department. Mr P complained and received a final response on 23 February 2016. Mr P 
initially brought his complaint to us but asked for the matter to be put on hold while  he tried 
to sort things out with Coutts.
In 2016 Coutts  gave  Mr P notice that it was intending to take legal action to take possession 
of his property  to repay the outstanding borrowing. Mr P managed to sell Property  A in the 
same year and a proportion of the money owed was repaid. Mr Ps still trying  to sell Property 
B to repay his bridging loan with Coutts. 
In 2017 Coutts  decided  to start legal  proceedings again to take possession of Property B to 
repay the outstanding borrowing. In 2017  Mr P complained to Coutts through  a third party  
representative. Coutts sent its final response on 8 December 2017 and it gave referral rights 
to us if Mr P remained unhappy.  Mr P brought his complaint to us again  more  specifically 
this time about the mis-sale of the bridging loan and Coutts  treatment of him in recent years.  
Coutts agreed to put its legal action to recover the debt on hold while  we looked into the 
complaint. 
Coutts wouldnt give its consent for us to look into the complaint about  the sale of the 
bridging loan in 2007. It also didnt  give its consent for us to look at the fairness of the 
interest thats been charged on Mr Ps mortgage  and bridging  loan any earlier than six years  
before the matter  was referred  to us. Coutts  has agreed to us looking at the other parts of Mr 
Ps complaint concerning its attempts to get the loan repaid in recent years.  I issued a 
jurisdiction decision in March 2019 which confirmed that were unable  to look at Mr Ps 
complaint about  the mis-sale of the bridging  loan or the fairness of the interest charged on 
his mortgage debt before April 2010.
Our investigator looked into the parts of the complaint that we can look into. She didnt think  
Coutts had treated Mr P unfairly and she didnt think it should have offered Mr P lower 
interest rates when  it had continued to hold back on enforcing its security  to repay the 
Ref: DRN42828032bridging loan.  She thought Coutts had shown a reasonable  degree  of forbearance in its 
handling of Mr Ps loans.
Mr P disagreed. He asked  that an ombudsman look at his complaint. This complaint has now 
been passed to me to consider and reach a final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that Mr P will have been  under considerable pressure due to his financial 
situation for a number  of years now. Mr Ps said hed like the ombudsman to consider every 
point that he has made  to us. I understand Mr Ps strength of feeling  on this subject and Id 
like to reassure him that I dont underestimate how important this complaint is to him. 
Were an informal dispute service, set up as a free alternative to the courts. Im able to 
determine what I consider  is at the heart of a dispute  and this means I wont be addressing  
every point brought to us by Mr P in this decision.  Ive already explained in my jurisdiction 
decision that I dont  have the power to look at some parts of the complaint because  these 
issues have been  brought to us out of time. And for the issues I have the power to consider, 
Ive determined what I think is at the crux of this complaint. This reflects  the informal nature 
of our service and my role within it.
As Ive said above,  I issued a jurisdiction decision on 15 March 2019, setting out which  parts 
of this complaint  we can look into. Mr Ps complaints about the mis-sale of his bridging loan, 
and the rate of interest he was charged  before April 2010 are not matters that I have the 
power to determine.  Nothing Ive seen since has changed my mind  about that. So I now turn 
to the parts  of Mr Ps complaint we can consider.
has Coutts treated  Mr P unfairly when  trying to recover amounts owed to it?
Ive looked at the contact history between Mr P and Coutts (including the Debt Management 
Operations) since the bridging loan was taken out in 2007. As might  be imagined,  there  has 
been a great  deal of interaction between  Mr P and his lender. 
I can see that Mr P has worked hard to keep  Coutts  up-to-date with his plans to market his 
properties and he has tried to refinance his borrowing elsewhere.
Ive also looked  in detail at the way Coutts  has interacted  with Mr P over the years.  Mr Ps 
complained that Coutts has been aggressive in the way it has tried to recover  money owed 
to it. Having looked at the written correspondence  sent by Coutts, the nature of its actions, 
and the contact history  between the parties,  I havent seen any evidence  that I think  shows 
aggressive or unfair treatment. In fact, I think Coutts has shown considerable forbearance in 
the way it has handled  the repayment  of amounts owed by Mr P, outside of an agreed term.
From the evidence provided, I can see that Coutts  has agreed a number of extensions to the 
bridging loan to allow Mr P to try to sell his properties and achieve the best price possible. I 
think its fair to say that it was in Coutts best interests too for Mr P sells his own properties 
rather than it seek possession. This would typically attract  a lower sales price. Its also worth 
noting that Mr Ps properties are of a high value and as such will require fairly  specialist  
marketing and can be costly to maintain.
Ref: DRN42828033From 2012,  Coutts  seems  to become increasingly concerned  about  its position. The last 
agreed extension  of the bridging loan expired in 2013. By this point I think Coutts  makes  it 
reasonably clear that it wont be able to refinance Mr Ps borrowing again. It explains this is 
because Mr P has two expired loan facilities with it and two properties  that he hasnt 
managed to sell.
However, Coutts doesnt start legal proceedings until 2016.  Im persuaded that this period  of 
ongoing negotiation, while Mr P maintained payments of interest, was intended to give Mr P 
time to carry on trying  to market the properties and consider his options  elsewhere. I note 
Coutts called  off legal proceedings when Mr P made  a significant repayment and it only 
started legal  action again immediately prior to this complaint. It has now put action on hold 
while weve looked  into Mr Ps concerns.
Mr P has said hed have liked Coutts to do more  to help him refinance elsewhere. I can see 
that the situation must have become increasingly frustrating for Mr P, and why he turned to 
Coutts to recommend different lenders  or options that he may have. Coutts suggested that 
Mr P should  contact other high street lenders to see if he could  refinance  elsewhere. 
Realistically, I think it would have been very difficult for Mr P to refinance elsewhere  at this 
point, especially with a high street lender. However, this is due to Mr Ps particular financial 
situation and the wider  mortgage lending appetite at the time. I note there  werent 
contractual barriers  that prevented Mr P from going elsewhere, such  as an Early Repayment 
Charge or a similar break cost in his bridging  loan agreement. I also dont  think  Coutts had a 
responsibility to source alternative financing for Mr P, although I understand why Mr P would 
have liked it to do more  to help him.
Mr Ps complained about the rate of interest hes paid on his borrowing. Hes said that he 
knows people on interest rate deals that were  lower than interest he was paying.  Ive 
considered the interest rate that Coutts was charging on Mr Ps mortgage facility  and his 
bridging facility. Both were provided on tracker rates, tracking the Coutts  base rate. The 
Coutts base rate seems to have followed the Bank of England  base rate. 
The mortgage was agreed at a tracker of 1.25% above Coutts base rate. The bridge facility 
was at 1.75% above Coutts base  rate. This sort of level of interest rate doesnt seem  
unreasonably high to me. Mr P will have also benefitted from Bank of England base rate 
(and Coutts base  rate) being at record lows.  While  Mr P may look back and wish that hed 
tried to lock into a lower  interest rate deal, Im also conscious that he was trying to sell his 
properties and planned to repay the borrowing. So, while a fixed  rate deal may have given 
Mr P access  to lower interest  rates,  the break costs (such as an associated  ERC if the debt 
was repaid early)  would have been  expensive.
Overall I dont think Coutts needed to make another interest rate deal available  to Mr P when 
he was out of an agreed term on his borrowing. The interest rate Mr P was paying would 
have been part of his ongoing negotiation  with Coutts. I dont think Coutts has treated him 
unfairly in this particular  aspect of his complaint.
I can see that Mr P has gone  to great  efforts to try to sell his properties and repay his 
borrowing with Coutts, in line with agreements he entered into prior to the financial crisis.  
However, having looked at all the evidence and considered  Coutts interactions with him and 
its conduct, I dont think  Coutts  has acted in an aggressive manner or that its been 
unreasonable in refusing to offer lower  interest rates while Mr P is outside of agreed  
Ref: DRN42828034facilities. I also dont think it had a duty to source  alternative finance for Mr P when he didnt 
manage to sell his properties  and repay his loans within extended timescales.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4282803