K820x#14Complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC changed the address for statements on her 
joint account without  her consent. This led to problems when she applied for an equity 
release and needed bank  statements  showing  her address. She also complains about the 
poor service she received  when she complained. The complaint is brought  on her behalf by 
her son.
Background
Mrs Ms account was in the joint names  of herself  and her husband.  They separated in 2009 
and Mr M gave the bank  his new address.  Mrs Ms address didnt change. But the bank only 
sent statements  to Mr M.
When Mrs M applied for an equity release, she was required to supply bank statements 
showing her address. When Barclays sent her copy statements, she realised  the address 
was her ex-husbands. The bank wasnt able to provide her with statements showing her 
address. When Mrs M complained, it agreed to send a letter confirming her address. It 
initially did this as part of its final response  to her complaint. Mrs M  through  her son  
complained again and asked for a separate letter. The bank provided this. But Mrs M says 
the delay in providing the required information  delayed the equity release. She wants  
compensation for the address being changed without her consent  and for the stress 
Barclays caused her.
Our investigators didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that 
Barclays acted in line with the terms and conditions  of the account. The second investigator 
who looked at the complaint thought that, although Barclays had initially been reluctant to 
provide the letter Mrs M needed, it did send this without any undue delay.
Mrs Ms son, on her behalf,  didnt  agree  so the complaint  has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M separated in 2009. Mr M told the bank his new address. The account  terms 
and conditions say that correspondence  about the account, including  statements, will be 
sent to the first named  party  in this case Mr M. Ive not seen evidence  to show  that Mr M 
and/or Mrs M told the bank they had separated. And there  was no request to send  
correspondence to both of them. Mrs M would have  known  that, over the years, she hadnt  
received any statements  for the account and she could have contacted Barclays if shed 
wanted them.
When she applied for an equity release, Mrs Ms solicitor asked her to provide  bank  
statements showing her correspondence address.  When she requested  this from Barclays,  it 
provided copy statements, but they showed  Mr Ms address. 
Mrs M complained and asked the bank to provide a letter that she could give to her solicitor  
to confirm her address.  The bank provided this, but as part of its response to her complaint. 
Its not clear whether  her solicitor would  have accepted this, but she wanted  not 
unreasonably  a separate  letter.
Ref: DRN49510802Ive listened to the call on 4 March  in which her son asked for that separate  letter. And I can 
understand why he was frustrated. Firstly he believed  Barclays  had wrongly changed 
Mrs Ms correspondence address  Ive already set out why I dont think this was the case. 
Secondly, the call handler initially didnt understand the full details and didnt think he would 
be able to supply  what was required. But he agreed to re-open  the complaint.
Mr M phoned again on 7 March  as hed not heard  anything.  He told us the bank hadnt  done 
anything following his earlier call. I dont think this is right. Barclays had re-opened his 
mothers complaint and it was being investigated. His second call allowed Mr M to clarify 
with the complaint handler exactly what was required. And the letter  was sent on the same  
day.
Following Mrs Ms request, Barclays has now arranged for her to receive duplicate 
correspondence and statements.
I dont find that the bank  made a mistake  when it updated the correspondence address 
records for the account. When Mrs M complained, it provided the information she needed. 
Her son then asked for this information  in a separate letter and the bank provided it without 
any undue  delay. Whilst I appreciate Mrs M and her son had to make some phone  calls to 
get what they needed, this wasnt due to a mistake  by Barclays. So I dont award any 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4951080