K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) hasnt treated him fairly as it has applied  a 
default to his credit file. 
background
In 2015, Mr M took out a personal loan for £18,000 with BoS, with a monthly repayment of 
£346.58. In June 2018, BoS sent a default  notice to Mr M as his account was in arrears. The 
default notice  letter said Mr M had to pay £1386.32 by 8 July 2018. This amount was equal 
to four missed payments.
On 7 July 2018,  Mr M called BoS to make  the payment. He said he was surprised when after 
several attempts  the payment was declined,  as he said there  were  sufficient funds  in his 
account. On checking his bank account,  he said his available funds had been reduced by the 
payment hed attempted to make. On speaking to his bank he was given an authorisation 
code to confirm  the transaction. Mr M spoke to BoS again this time giving it the authorisation 
code, and was told the transaction had gone through.  
In September  2018, Mr M, on checking  his loan, saw the payment hadnt been credited to 
his account. BoS said when Mr M called the second time to check whether the transaction  
had been successful; he was incorrectly told it was. It said this was because the first advisor  
was still updating  Mr Ms account to say the transaction had actually been declined.  
BoS said it could  see that Mr M had intended  to repay the arrears  and had been  told the 
default would be stopped.  But it said it was his responsibility to check the payment was 
actually made. BoS said the default had been applied correctly  as it reflected the true 
conduct of Mr Ms account.  But accepted Mr M had been incorrectly told the payment had 
been successful  when it had been declined. BoS offered  £60 compensation for giving 
conflicting information.
Mr M wasnt happy with this response and referred his complaint to us. He again  said there 
were sufficient funds for the payment to have been  taken. And his account shouldnt have 
been defaulted as it was BoS  fault it hadnt  been  taken. He wanted the adverse information 
removed from his credit file. He said the interest  rate on his mortgage has been increased as 
a result of the default being  added.
Our investigator accepted that Mr M had attempted to make the payment to prevent the 
default but said that the default had been  applied correctly. 
Mr M has asked  for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
I can understand why Mr M would  be upset at finding out that arrears on a loan he thought 
hed paid were  still outstanding. And I can also appreciate his concern that this had led to a 
default being recorded on his credit file. So Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN43433662account history
Mr M first fell behind with the loan repayments  in 2016, and from then direct debits were 
regularly rejected. The loan statements show that Mr M at various  times made ad-hoc 
payments to bring  the account up to date. 
In June 2016, Mr M told BoS he was having  short term financial difficulty  but his situation 
would improve by the end of July 2016.  BoS agreed  a repayment plan with Mr M, reducing 
his monthly repayment  to £116 and the interest  being applied to the loan account was 
frozen.
In January 2017, Mr M expected to sell his home  and to settle  the loan. In May 2017, Mr M 
called to find out when his payment plan was due to end and to update  his address. He was 
told he needed to update  his address  in branch. Again he said hed settle  the debt saying it 
would be done  by the end of the following month.  From BoS records  Mr M didnt update  his 
address details nor did he settle the account.
Mr M didnt  make his May 2017  payment, so had broken his repayment  plan.  He spoke to 
BoS and again said hed settle the account by the end of June 2017,  as hed sold his home.  
He added that he was worried about a default being added  to his account. BoS said it could 
add a promise to pay note to his account  but couldnt promise  that the default wouldnt be 
applied. I think BoS could have applied a default,  at this point as Mr M had broken his 
repayment plan,  but it didnt do this.
Since then,  Mr M did at times bring the account up to date, but still regularly missed  making  
his monthly commitment.  And by June 2018 he had missed  a total of four payments, BoS,  at 
this time, sent him the default notice. 
sufficient funds
Mr M has provided his bank statements for this period which do show a balance on his 
account sufficient  for the payment to have been  successful.  On checking the statement 
further, I can see that on 7 July 2018, the day he tried to make  the payment  to BoS, a 
substantial credit was paid into the account  from another lender. 
So, I can understand his thinking  the payment had been made,  as he knew  the funds were  in 
his account, and he had an authorisation code which would indicate the funds had been  
reserved for BoS to take. But while I can understand his frustration that he thought he had 
cleared his arrears,  its also clear  from his July 2018  statement that the amount hadnt  been 
taken from his account. And given the difficulty hed had in trying  to make  the payment, I 
would have thought this would have been something he would  have checked,  at the time.
adverse credit information
Lenders are expected  to ensure that a credit file is an accurate reflection of how a borrower 
has managed their account.  The Information  Commissioners Office (ICO) says when a 
consumer is at least three months behind with their payments  then a default may be 
registered. And it would  expect a default  to be registered  by the time the consumer  is six 
months behind with their payments. 
Ref: DRN43433663Mr M didnt  always  make  his required minimum monthly repayments  in full or on time. And I 
think its clear  that he was experiencing some financial difficulty. So I would look to see that 
BoS treated  him in a positive and sensitive way.  
I can see from Mr Ms account  history that BoS did try to help him at various  times  while  he 
was having difficulty  in making  his payments, by reducing his monthly  repayments,  freezing 
the interest applied. And by not applying a default  at times when it could have. Mr M also 
told BoS, a number of times, that the account was going to be settled. And, even though
Mr M may have thought  the payment hed tried to make had gone through; he didnt make 
any further payments  from July 2018 until he settled the account in January 2019.
So I think BoS did act reasonably in recording this on Mr Ms credit file, as the account was 
in arrears. As Mr M has now repaid the debt in full, the default would show  as being 
satisfied. So, Im not going to ask BoS to remove that information. 
Mr M has said that he was initially offered a mortgage but when his buyer fell through  he had 
to re-apply for another mortgage. The first mortgage offer,  he said,  was made  at a better rate 
than the second offer which was affected  by the default.
I can understand why Mr M may think he was charged more interest on his mortgage 
because of the adverse information showing on his report. But while that is a reasonable 
conclusion, Mr M had also missed  payments before and after the default was applied, which  
would also have been present on his file. And I cant know  what  weight would have been 
attached to all of the adverse information,  by his lender.
BoS has accepted that it did give Mr M conflicting  information and has offered £60 
compensation. As Im not upholding  the complaint it will be for Mr M to decide whether he 
wants to accept the offer.
my final decision
So, for the reasons outlined above Im not upholding  Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019. 
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4343366