K822xcomplaint
Miss H and Mr H complain about  the customer service they received from Hastings
Insurance Services Limited  after they changed the car insured on their motor insurance
policy.
background 
Mr H has a motor insurance policy with Hastings. Miss H is the sole named driver on this
policy. The policy  renewed on 1 December 2018. Mr H, the main  policyholder,  paid the initial
deposit, but the insured  car belonged on Miss H and an arrangement was in place for her to
pay the balance  of the monthly instalments of the premium by direct  debit.
This arrangement had been in place  for several years. And there were no problems until
after Miss H called Hastings, on 8 February  2019, to change  the details of the car insured
under the policy.
The change of car meant there was a small increase of £5.89 in the premium  and an
amendment fee of £20 was charged.  Miss H agreed  that the additional sum would be spread
across the remaining months of the policy term. She was told her revised monthly payment
due on 13 February 2019  would be £75.33 and was also given details of the payments due
for the remainder of the policy term. During the call Miss H told Hastings that they were
writing to her at the wrong  house number, so a neighbour  was receiving her letters.  Hastings
agreed to send a revised payment schedule.
A copy of the revised payment schedule was sent to both Mr H and Miss H. This schedule
didnt make any reference to a payment  being due on 13 February 2019. It showed the first
payment being  due on 13 March 2019. And the schedule didnt show the same payments
Miss H had been advised of during the call with Hastings on 8 February  2019.  The payments
on the schedule  varied considerably from month to month, from as little as £9.91, to as much
as £140.81.
Hastings tried to collect the payment due on 13 February 2019 from Miss Hs account but
were unable to do so as there were insufficient  funds  available. Hastings then wrote to
Mr H advising  him that the payment would be taken  from his account. Mr Hs wife called
Hastings, on his behalf, on 15 February 2019, to query why they were  taking  the money from
his account, when Miss H had told him shed made the payment. She was asked to send
proof the payment had been  made,  as Hastings had no record  of it. During the conversation
Hastings agreed  to remove Mr Hs payment details from the policy and confirmed this had
been done.
Miss H called Hastings on 16 February  to raise further issues.  She said shed  been  charged
a fee to amend her address, but although  shed received  one letter correctly addressed to
her, her neighbour  had received three wrongly  addressed letters  for her the same day. She
wanted the fee shed  paid refunded as her address hadnt been updated. She also said the
payment schedule shed received had inconsistent payments and, as a single parent, she
struggled to budget without regular payment amounts. Hastings said the wrong address on
their system had been marked as inactive, so no further letters should be sent there.
On 2 March 2019 Miss H called Hastings as shed received a letter  telling her the policy
would be cancelled, as she hadnt paid the instalment due on 13 February  2019.  Miss H
spoke to several people at Hastings. She was initially told the only way to stop the
Ref: DRN48600722cancellation was to make the outstanding  payment. She tried to explain that the revised
schedule shed received didnt list a payment due on 13 February  2019.  When she said she
couldnt afford to make  the payment, she was told Hastings had written advising her of the
outstanding payment, so there  was nothing that could be done. And that the schedule on
their system clearly  showed a payment was due on 13 February 2019.
Eventually Miss H spoke to someone  who asked her to email a copy of the schedule shed
received. She did this and when Hastings called her back, theyd reviewed the schedule
shed been sent, and as this didnt include any payment for February 2019, they agreed to
write off the February payment. Miss H was told as there was no longer an outstanding
payment the policy wouldnt  cancel. She was also told that Hastings technical team had
admitted there was a problem with her payment schedule.  Miss H confirmed that she was
happy with a payment of around  £75 a month.  She was taken through a new payment
schedule, with payments  at around  this level, and told this would be sent to her. Miss H also
complained that one of the people shed spoken to earlier had called her a liar. She was told
this would be looked into.
Despite the discussion  about having regular payments Hastings then sent a revised
schedule to Mr H and Miss H, the same  day, which had monthly payments which varied  from
£9.91 to £140.81.
Miss H next contacted  Hastings on 25 March 2019.  She wanted  to speak to the person shed
spoken to on 2 March 2019 as shed received further schedules  detailing inconsistent
payments, letters  were still going to her neighbours address, and now her name  was wrong
on some  of the letters. Miss H said shed  been emailing them  but had yet to receive  a
response. Miss H was told a complaint had been logged on her behalf and someone who
knew the history of the case would look into things and contact her.
Miss H didnt hear back from the person shed spoken to at Hastings in early March.  She
called again on 5 April 2019 seeking confirmation of her monthly  payments, as the schedule
shed been sent didnt  match the payments she agreed to make. She told Hastings shed
been calling  and emailing every day to try and get things resolved  but hadnt  heard from
them. Miss H also wanted to know whether her policy was still in place as she didnt know
what payment Hastings had taken in March, and whether this had gone through.  She was
also unhappy that Hastings continued  to contact her father about the payments, as this was
putting strain  on her relationship with him.
Hastings logged a complaint for Miss H who told them  shed already contacted our service.
She was told the issues shed raised  were being looked and they would contact her as soon
as they could explain what was going on. She was offered £10 compensation for their failure
to contact her as shed  requested, which she didnt accept.
Mr H was sent a letter  of 5 April 2019 telling  him he hed needed to pay £75.36 and arrange
to set up a new direct  debit. He was told the policy would cancel on 21 April 2019 if the
payment wasnt received.  On 13 April 2019 Mr H was sent a further letter  warning him the
policy would be cancelled if payment wasnt received by 21 April 2019.
On 22 April 2019 Hastings sent Miss H a letter advising her that the policy was cancelled  on
21 April 2019.
Miss H spoke to Hastings again on 23 April 2019.  She hadnt  received the letter about the
cancellation, when  she spoke to them. She told them that letters were still being  sent to her
Ref: DRN48600723neighbour, and sometimes  these contained just blank sheets of headed  paper. She was told
further correspondence could be sent by email. Hastings said they were looking into what
had happened  with her payment schedule and sorting this out. She told them again that she
was a single  parent and couldnt budget for inconsistent payments. She expressed her
disappointment that she hadnt been able to contact the person who seemed to understand
the problems she was having.
Hastings called Miss H back the same  day and told her something  had gone horribly  wrong
with her direct debit. She was told the policy  had been cancelled but had now been
reinstated. Despite  this conversation both Mr and Miss H were sent two separate  further
payment schedules on 23 April 2019 with different payment  details. One set out payments
varying from £18.59  to £105.94 and the other  £72.36  to £85.72.
Hastings called Miss H again on 24 April 2019  in response to her complaint and told her the
problems shed been experiencing were due to system errors, and they couldnt guarantee
that these wouldnt  happen again.  But her payment plan had been  adjusted.  Hastings told
her that when the policy was reinstated £48 interest  had been added to the premium,  but
theyd written this off and given her £100  compensation. These sums had been taken off the
outstanding premium which meant she had seven payments of £67.62 left to make.
Hastings apologised  for the number  of times Miss H had needed to call and explain what
had happened. They also apologised for the person Miss H had spoken to on 2 March 2019
saying hed been very rude and obnoxious.  Hastings  said a new payment schedule was
being sent to her by post and email. They confirmed her direct debit was in place and said if
she had any further  problems, she should  contact  them.
And a schedule setting  out these payments was sent to her, using her correct  name  and
address on that date.
Miss H was unhappy with the customer service shed received from Hastings and
complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case  and said Hastings had
already said the customer service  theyd provided  was poor,  so what she had to consider
was whether the compensation of £148 was fair and reasonable.
She said there was no doubt that Hastings  sending inconsistent  payments schedules and
sending letters to the wrong address had caused Miss H inconvenience, and shed found
trying to sort this out very frustrating. But she said the payments Hastings attempted to take
in February and March  2019 were in line with the schedule sent to Mr H. So even though
Hastings had sent Miss H schedules  with inconsistent  payments, she didnt think  this should
have led to missing payments.
And she said when  Miss H disputed the payment schedules and the date the first payment
was due, Hastings  agreed to write  of the February  payment and told her exactly what  she
needed to pay each month between March and November 2019. So she was satisfied  they
did tell Miss H the correct  amount she was due to pay each  month.
Our investigator said that she understood the situation had put a strain on the relationship
between Miss H and her father. But as he was the policyholder, she said Hastings  were
entitled to attempt to take the payments from him, if they werent made by Miss H. So our 
investigator didnt  think  theyd done anything  wrong.
While our investigator understood  that Miss H was very concerned  to discover  her policy  had
Ref: DRN48600724been cancelled,  and she was driving without insurance for two days, she didnt think theyre
been any significant impact, particularly as Hastings agreed to reinstate the policy, despite
there being two missed  payments.
Our investigator thought Hastings compensation offer was fair and reasonable and she didnt
ask them  to do anything  further.
Miss H was unhappy with our investigators opinion so the case  came to me for a
decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 28 February  2020. In it I said: -
Hastings have accepted that the level of service  they provided to Mr H and Miss H was poor.
But I still need to look at the service  provided  to consider whether the compensation theyve
offered is fair and reasonable.
Mr H is the policyholder and so responsible  for the monthly  premium  payments, if these
arent made under the arrangement agreed between Hastings and Miss H. Yet when  his wife
spoke to Hastings  on Mr Hs behalf,  they agreed  to remove  his payment details from the
policy. There was no discussion about him being  the policyholder, Hastings just agreed  to do
as hed requested.  As theyd done this, I can understand why Mr H would have then been
upset about receiving letters from Hastings telling him he had to make  the missed  payments
and set up a new direct debit. Miss H has told us this has impacted on her relationship  with
her father and I can see how it could have  done.
Miss H has told us shes a single parent with two children, one of whom is unwell, and she
needs to carefully  budget each month.  Ive listened to all the calls between her and Hastings
and, from the first call, she made clear to them  the impact not having a regular fixed monthly
payment had on her. I accept that during her conversation on 8 February  2019 she was told
a payment of £76.36 was due on 13 February  2019.  But she then received a payment
schedule which didnt  show  a payment  as being  due until 13 March  2019. In her 
circumstances, when  shes  explained how carefully  she needs to budget, I can understand
why she simply  accepted the payments  set out in the schedule, as it gave her one less bill to
pay in February 2019.
Miss H is mistaken about why she was charged  a fee of £20. This was in respect  of
changing the details of the car insured  under the policy. This charge is clearly  set out in the
policy terms and conditions. So, despite  the errors made by Hastings I dont  agree this
needs to be refunded.
Miss H called Hastings on 2 March 2019 to try and sort out her payments. Hastings have
described the person she spoke to first as rude  and obnoxious.  Ive listened to the call and
he simply wouldnt accept what Miss H was saying. He argued  with her, said it wasnt
possible for the payment schedule shed received to be different to the one he could see on
their system, and when  she was clearly upset and had said she couldnt afford to make a
payment that day, he didnt really try to help. When Miss H offered to send a picture of the
schedule shed received, she was simply told this wouldnt help, and her policy would cancel
unless she made a payment that day.
Miss H did eventually speak to someone who asked for a copy of the payment schedule and
confirmed that Hastings technical team had admitted theyre been a problem with her
payment schedule. They wrote off the outstanding payment and confirmed  the policy
Ref: DRN48600725wouldnt be cancelled. But to reach this outcome had involved Miss H spending hours  on the
phone with Hastings.
After all this Miss H continued to receive  incorrect schedules, her name was spelt incorrectly,
and letters were  still being sent to her neighbour. Shes told us she left messages for the
person shed spoken to last on 2 March  2019  to call her and sent emails to try and get this
resolved over a period of weeks. But they didnt get back to her. I accept that this left her in a
position where she had no idea what payments she was supposed to be making, as the
schedule shed been sent didnt match  the payments shed  been  given over the phone.  And
in her circumstances,  this must have been  difficult and upsetting.  Particularly as she spent
so much time trying to resolve  the issues.
Given all that had happened Im not surprised Miss H wasnt  happy  with the £10 Hastings
offered for failing to return her calls or reply to her emails. Although the person Miss H spoke
to on 5 April 2019  tried to help, the situation wasnt  resolved. She continued  to receive
incorrect payment schedules.
She finally received  a payment schedule  with consistent monthly payments after speaking  to
Hastings on 24 April 2019.  They accepted she had lots of problems due to system errors,
but even then, said they couldnt guarantee the problems  wouldnt arise again.
I can understand why Miss H was upset to learn the policy had been cancelled  in April,  then
reinstated. Considering all the problems shed reported to Hastings I dont think the policy
should have cancelled, as she was trying  to contact them to confirm  what  payment was due.
I appreciate why shes upset about  what might have happened while  she was unknowingly
uninsured, but fortunately nothing did happen.
Even though  Mr H was the policyholder, as Hastings had agreed to remove  his payment
details from there system,  I can see that he would then have been upset when he continued
to receive letters from Hastings about the outstanding payments.
With all problems Miss H has had and time shes spent trying repeatedly to resolve these
issues with Hastings I dont think the compensation offered for the trouble and upset she and
Mr H have suffered is adequate given the poor customer service theyve experienced.
And to put things  right I said I required Hastings to do the following: -
Pay Mr H £100 compensation for the trouble and upset he has experienced.
Pay Miss H £250  compensation  for the trouble and upset she experienced.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr and Miss Hs complaint.
Mr and Miss H have  indicated that they accept my provisional decision. Hastings havent 
responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Miss H have accepted my provisional decision, and theres been no response 
from Hastings, I see no reason to review  my decision.
Ref: DRN48600726my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr and Miss Hs complaint against Hastings Insurance  Services  Limited. 
And to put things  right I require them to do the following:-
Pay Mr H £100 compensation for the trouble and upset he has experienced.
Pay Miss H £250  compensation  for the trouble and upset she experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Miss H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 May 2020.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4860072