K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that a finance agreement she entered  into with RCI Financial Services  
Limited (RCI) was mis-sold to her as she wasnt given  a chance to review  the terms of the 
contract and they didnt  take into account  her true financial circumstances. 
background
Miss A has been represented throughout this complaint by her father. Whilst many of the 
comments I refer to in this decision may be his, for ease I have referred to Miss A 
throughout.
Miss A took receipt of a new car in June 2017.  She financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with RCI. 
But Miss A says the finance wasnt affordable. She says the sales person at the dealership  
asked her for details  of her current employment; her salary and the time shed spent at her 
current address but that he didnt ask her about  her outgoings.  And she says that, in those 
circumstances, he couldnt  have established  whether  the loan was affordable for her. She 
says that the contract she eventually saw had recorded a previous employer and that the 
time at her current address had been  exaggerated.
Miss A also says that she wasnt given the finance  agreement for 15 months  when she 
asked for them.  She says that at the point of supply she was simply asked to record her 
signature in a signature box on a tablet. And she says the dates on the finance papers 
demonstrate that she wasnt  provided  with them to sign as they were dated on the date the 
car was supplied to her and the delivery driver didnt have a printer.
RCI said that the employer and time at address were obtained from Miss A and copied  to the 
paperwork. They said they had performed a credit check that showed Miss A had a good 
credit score and there was no outstanding  debt.  They have subsequently explained that the 
income statement  provided by Miss A was compared to the indebtedness on the credit file 
and that this suggested the threshold, after which additional checks on outgoings would be 
required, had not been met and additional evidence was therefore not requested.  RCI said 
that as the monthly payments had been met on the agreement  this would suggest that the 
payments were affordable to Miss A.
RCI went on to explain that Miss A had signed  the finance agreements  that they said had 
been presented  to her. They didnt  think it reasonable to suggest that Miss A wouldnt have 
wanted to consider the documents before signing them and they explained that when Miss A 
split up from her partner she had contacted the dealership  about  the agreement  and said 
she wouldnt  be able to afford it and thats  why further copies were sent to her. 
But Miss A was dissatisfied with RCIs response and she referred her complaint to this 
service. Our investigator didnt think there  was sufficient evidence  that the agreement had 
been mis-sold. He explained that it wasnt for this service to determine the methods RCI 
used to approve affordability. But in this case he noted that theyd used an automated  
approval system and that the details  Miss A had provided didnt pass  the threshold beyond  
which additional information about outgoings  would need to be gathered.  He was satisfied 
that their process had been sufficient and he noted  that, as payments hadnt been missed, 
this would support  a view that the finance  was affordable.
Ref: DRN46615222He went on to consider  whether Miss A had been provided with the agreement. He thought it 
was likely she had been as the finance  documents were all signed and he noted that a 
welcome pack had been  sent to her a couple  of days  after shed taken receipt  of the car and 
in it the contractual details were set out. He was persuaded  by the dealerships  explanation  
that a further copy of the finance  agreement had been provided  to Miss A when she 
contacted them to explain shed split up with her partner and could no longer afford the 
repayments. Overall, he didnt think there was evidence that RCI had done anything wrong.
But Miss A disagreed  and she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss A but I agree with the investigators view.  Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
affordability
Before agreeing to provide credit a business should check that the credit is affordable. The 
type of checks which  a business should carry out should be proportionate, so (for instance) a 
mortgage lender  will ask for bank statements and payslips, but a catalogue  offering a low 
credit limit doesnt have  to go into so much detail. 
In considering this complaint, Ive looked at whether RCI carried  out proportionate checks, 
and at what information they had been given about Miss As financial circumstances.
The methods RCI used to establish affordability  were for them  to decide but the practices  
and procedures they used had to be effective. And the depth of their analysis could be 
proportionate to the amount of money  being  requested.
The full process  by which RCI ascertains affordability has not been explained to me and I 
understand that. To reveal detail of the process  is a commercially sensitive decision which  
could expose  them to fraud  if in the wrong  hands.
However, whilst  the business hasnt explained  the algorithms used to make  a decision they 
have explained  the information  they used and their rationale for accepting Miss As finance  
application. They considered Miss As income  statement in tandem with evidence of her 
indebtedness obtained from her credit  file. They noted her credit  score was good  and that 
she had no debt so, in those circumstances, they didnt ask for further evidence  as they 
decided it wasnt necessary.
Miss A hasnt missed  a payment towards  her agreement and whilst I understand shes 
explained that this is because her family  and previous partner supported  her, I do think  her 
Ref: DRN46615223payment history provides some further  evidence that the monthly instalments were  
affordable for her.
I therefore dont  think it would be fair to suggest that the credit  checks werent sufficient.
provision of the agreement
The agreement has been signed by Miss A and I think its reasonable to say that, in so 
doing, she confirmed  that she was prepared  to accept the conditions in it.
I understand that the date on the agreement is the date the car was supplied. I dont find this 
particularly concerning as Id expect  the supply date to be the date on the agreement. Ive 
noted Miss As testimony that she couldnt  have signed it on the day of receipt  but that hasnt 
persuaded me that it was most likely she hadnt  considered it or been presented with it 
earlier. I think its likely she wouldnt  have been prepared to sign a document without 
considering what  was in it and I think  she would  have  expected  to be asked to sign some 
form of contract. So in the circumstances I think its more likely than not that she was given 
the contract  when the car was supplied.
And regardless, Ive seen  RCIs system  notes and its clear  a welcome pack  was sent a 
couple of days  later. The welcome pack included the finance documents  and reminded 
Miss A of her right to withdraw from the contract  within 14 days.  Im persuaded that its most 
likely this was sent and I note the address RCI have for Miss A appears to be correct.
So overall, Im not persuaded that RCI have done  anything wrong here and Im not asking 
them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4661522