K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 1995 on 
both a Visa card and a MasterCard. Mrs G says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, mis-sold  her PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain  why.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs G didnt have to take 
out PPI and she chose to take out this cover  although I can understand why she cant  
remember this. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mrs Gs credit card application form. 
This included a section  for PPI with both a yes and no option for the cover. The yes 
option has been ticked and Mrs G signed  the form, agreeing for PPI to be added to both her 
Visa and MasterCard. So I think this reflected what she wanted  at the time.
Mrs G cant remember  if Barclays recommend  the PPI to her. Barclays says it thinks that it 
did. As things stand, there isnt enough  information  to determine this point.  But being able to 
do so isnt crucial to the outcome because, had Barclays recommended  the cover, I think it 
wouldve been a suitable recommendation to have  made for the reasons I set out below. As 
a result,  Ive considered the complaint on the same basis as Barclays.
As a recommended  sale Barclays had to check that PPI was right for Mrs G  and based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example she wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the cover.  Mrs G says the PPI wasnt  
suitable for her because  she had significant sick pay from her employers at the time. But she 
was entitled to full sick pay at the discretion of her employers. This means that her sick pay 
wasnt guaranteed  for any length of time.  So I cant say that it would have paid out for as 
long, or even longer than the 12 months the PPI wouldve covered her for. In any event, the 
PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to her sick pay and Mrs G didnt  have any other savings  or 
insurance at the time. So I dont think Mrs Gs sick pay meant  the cover wasnt suitable for 
her and I think it wouldve  been useful had she needed to make  a claim.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs G about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  So I dont think  better 
information about PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the cover to Mrs G. But
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of PPI to Mrs G because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mrs G, 
that was unfair.
Ref: DRN40927662To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays  Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the cost of 
the cover  to Mrs G.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs G any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4092766