K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC (Amtrust) declined  his motor 
warranty claim for the gearbox  on his car due to wear and tear. 
background
Mr A made a claim to Amtrust in July 2018  following issues with his car gearbox. Amtrust  
sent out an engineer to review the damage. Amtrusts engineer  felt the damage  to the 
second gear was due to wear and tear and therefore  shouldnt be covered  under the 
warranty. Mr A was unhappy with this decision  so he asked a specialist garage  and an 
engineer to review  the damage. His engineer said they felt the damage  was due to 
mechanical failure. So Mr A complained to Amtrust about its decision. Amtrust disagreed so 
Mr A asked this service to review  the complaint. He says the damage  should be covered 
under the warranty  and he should get the £120 he paid for his engineer.   
Mr A said he bought the car from a specialist dealer who inspected  it at the point of sale. He 
also provided some additional information from one of his engineers  which again said the 
damage wasnt wear and tear, otherwise the other gears would show  a similar  amount of 
damage to that seen  on the second  gear.  
Our investigator thought the damage was abnormal wear. And that Mr A would expect this 
damage to be covered  under the policy. So she thought Amtrust should  pay the claim. 
Because Amtrust didnt agree with the investigators opinion the case has now been passed 
to me to decide.  
Before reaching my final decision I let Amtrust know I intended  to ask it to reimburse Mr A 
the £120 hed paid for his engineers report and add interest to the settlement. I also asked  
whether its engineers reports were contradictory as the one dated 26 July one said taking 
into consideration the time and mileage  elapsed since the point of policy inception the 
conditions will not have  been developing at this time and have progressed and developed 
thereafter  and the other dated  29 August said we also note that the vehicle has only 
covered 2050-miles since the point of sale and as such in our view the components  were in 
a compromised  state at that stage.  Amtrusts  engineer said the initial  report  doesnt say the 
part was compromised  at the time of sale.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold this 
complaint. And Ill explain why below.
I note that both engineers have said there were only signs of wear on the second gear of 
Mr As car. So I need to consider  whether  Amtrust has fairly declined  the claim for this 
damage in line with its terms and conditions. 
Mr As policy  covers  him for mechanical  breakdown of specified  parts.  The gearbox is a 
covered part. Mechanical breakdown is defined in the policy as the sudden and unforeseen 
breakage of an item (in this case the gearbox).  The policy also says it will only consider 
damage as a result of wear and tear and where something is considered to have come to 
Ref: DRN46433722the end of its natural life when the policyholder has paid an additional  premium.  But Mr A 
didnt pay this additional premium. 
Amtrusts engineer has explained the fault is a wear related  issue  with reasons as to why 
this can occur. But the reports provided  by Amtrust appear to be contradictory in relation to 
when the damage  to the gearbox would have started to develop. Ive asked Amtrust to 
confirm if there is a mistake in the report causing  the contradiction and Amtrust confirmed 
the first report didnt say the fault was developing at the time of sale.  However I still think  
these reports are contradictory as one says the fault wasnt  developing at the time of sale 
and the other says it would have been.  As these reports are contradictory Im less 
persuaded by their findings as I dont  think I can rely on the information contained in them.
Also Mr A bought the car in May 2017  from a specialist dealer who fully inspected the car. 
So if there was any damage to the gearbox  I think its likely this would have  been  seen then. 
Mr As engineer mentioned in his report that as there was no evidence of wear on the other 
gears, then the damage was a result  of mechanical failure. And Im persuaded by Mr As 
engineer that there would have been evidence of wear on the other gears if this was to be 
considered wear and tear. So I believe this to be the more likely explanation  for the damage.  
Mr A had only done a little over 2,000 miles when  the claim was made.  Therefore  Im not 
satisfied this was normal wear and tear. Additionally the specialist garage which reviewed 
the car for Mr A said the wear isnt what they would expect to see with a car of this mileage.  
They concluded the gear had worn due to failure and not age. 
So after considering the reports provided by Mr A, I find these more convincing.  I believe the 
damage to the gearbox is due to premature wear  when considering there  were  no further 
signs of wear on any of the other gears. And the car had only done around 54,000 miles at 
the time.  Mr A has also explained that one day he was unable to select second gear whilst 
driving. So Im also satisfied the failure of the gearbox was sudden as per the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
Therefore Im satisfied  that as this was a mechanical breakdown Amtrust should pay the 
claim subject  to any limits or excesses on the policy. It should  also add 8% simple  interest  
from the date Mr A paid for the repairs  to the date it makes payment, due to the time hes 
been without the money.  
I note Mr A has asked for his engineers fee to be returned. As a report was only necessary 
due to Amtrusts decision to decline the claim unfairly I think  this should be covered and 8% 
simple interest added by Amtrust as well from the date Mr A paid for the report  to the date it 
makes payment. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Amtrust International Underwriters 
DAC to do the following: 
Pay the claim subject  to any limits or excesses on the policy.  
Pay Mr A 8% simple interest  on the claim from the date he paid for the repairs to his 
car until the date of payment. 
Reimburse the cost of Mr As engineers  report of £120 and add 8% simple interest 
on this amount from the date Mr A paid for the report  until the date of payment. 
Ref: DRN46433723If Amtrust International Underwriters DAC considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr A how much  its taken  off. 
It should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4643372