K820x#14complaint
Mr J and Ms W have  complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover a mortgage in 2008.
background
The mortgage was taken out in the joint names of Mr J and Ms W. However, the PPI policy 
covered Ms W only. Mr J and Ms W have stated  that they did not need  PPI, and that it was 
unsuitable due to Ms Ws pre-existing medical condition  (PEMC).
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He concluded that the policy  had not been 
mis-sold. He also noted that it looked  like the successful claim Ms W made under the policy 
resulted in her being paid a benefit  greater than the cost of the premiums, making her better 
off financially  by having had the policy.
On Mr J and Ms Ws behalf, their representative  disagreed with these findings, and asked 
that an ombudsman  review this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr J and Ms Ws case.
In the mortgage  application form signed  by Mr J and Ms W, there  was a section relating to 
PPI. Both Mr J and Ms W signed separately  in this section under a statement confirming that 
they would  like details  of PPI cover. Overall, this indicates to me that PPI was offered to 
them as an optional product to the mortgage.
In the mortgage  offer,  it again confirmed that PPI was optional, and it stated that Mr J and 
Ms W had agreed to take the policy out. Having considered the evidence available from the 
time of the sale, my view is that Mr J and Ms W chose to take out PPI, knowing  that there 
was no requirement  for them to do so.
Mr J and Ms W were  not advised  by Nationwide to take out PPI. However, Nationwide still 
had to give them clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the PPI so that they could 
make a properly informed choice about  it.
There might  have been areas in which Nationwide didnt give Mr J and Ms W as much 
information as it should have done. But taking into account their circumstances  (with  
particular reference  to Ms Ws as the sole PPI policyholder),  my view is that better 
information would not have put them off taking out PPI. I say this for the following reasons:
I acknowledge Ms Ws comments about her sick pay entitlement  from her employer 
when sold PPI. Mr J and Ms W have also said that they could have sold their vehicles to 
cover their mortgage  repayments, but it seems  to me that it might  not be practical to sell 
a vehicle to support  mortgage repayments. They  have also mentioned that their parents 
could have assisted  them,  but I am mindful that they might  not have been  able to 
guarantee getting family assistance  at an unknown date in the future.
Ref: DRN44418592The PPI policy would  have paid a benefit if Ms W had been unable  to work due to 
disability or unemployment, for a period of up to 12 months for any one claim. Even  
taking into account  Ms Ws employee  benefits,  bearing in mind  the importance  of 
meeting mortgage  repayments, on balance my view is that PPI provided a useful benefit 
to her.
Ms W was eligible  for the cover. She has highlighted  the PEMC she had when she took 
the policy out. However, the policy only excluded claims related to a PEMC for the first 
12 months of cover.  Taking into account  that the mortgage was due to run for a term of 
20 years,  it seems to me that this PEMC exclusion  did not make the policy  unsuitable for 
Ms W. And it looks  like she wouldnt have  been  affected by any of the other  main  things 
not covered by the policy that might make it unsuitable for her.
Ive not seen sufficient evidence to conclude that the PPI premium was unaffordable.
My conclusion is that the policy  was not mis-sold.
In addition, the evidence provided shows that the benefits paid to Ms W under her 
successful claim  amount to more  than she paid in premiums. Consequently, the sale of the 
policy has not resulted  in Mr J and Ms W suffering a financial  loss.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4441859