K821x#15complaint
Miss M has complained that esure Insurance Limited unfairly held her responsible for an 
accident with another  driver under  her motor policy.
background
Miss M said she was involved in a road rage incident  with another driver who deliberately hit 
her car coming out of a supermarket petrol station. Miss M said she reported it to the police 
but didnt report  it to esure as there  was little damage to her car, merely some  damage to her 
wing mirror. 
However, the other driver  made a claim to esure  who then contacted  Miss M to discuss the 
circumstances of the accident.  She told esure there  should be some CCTV from the 
supermarket petrol station  car park also. She also explained she had a voice recording on 
her phone. Esure asked  her to send this in. It also asked her provide a statement and a 
diagram of the incident.
Miss M said she didnt hear anything  further.  However, the other driver pursued her claim 
against Miss M and esure didnt inform Miss M this was happening. It ended  up settling the 
other drivers  claim in full, as it didnt believe it would win in court. 
Miss Ms premium increased as a result of this, which isnt part of this complaint.
She complained to esure. It thought its decision on the other drivers claim was correct,  but it 
acknowledged it should been in contact with her as regards its negotiations and settlement 
of the other drivers claim. It paid her £75 compensation for this.
Miss M remained  dissatisfied and brought her complaint to us. The investigator was of the 
view that esure should pay Miss M an additional  £300 as it didnt follow  up on the evidence  
she said she had, and didnt keep her informed. 
Neither Miss M nor esure agreed with the investigators view so Miss Ms complaint has 
been passed to me decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint along  the same  lines as that of the investigator. Ill now explain why.
As the investigator  explained, this service  doesnt decide who is responsible  for causing  an 
accident, as that is a matter for the courts. What we do is assess whether the insurers,  esure  
here came to its decision on liability reasonably and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. Esures policy along  with almost every other  motor  policy  has a term, which 
permits it to take over, defend or settle  any claim as it thinks  fit. However, it must do this 
reasonably, which invariably means  discussing  the issues with its policyholder, examining 
their car to ensure the damage claimed  by the other  driver could  have happened  and taking  
into account any evidence  its policyholder  might  have.  
Esure didnt examine Miss Ms car. It didnt  chase her voice recording evidence, or look at 
the CCTV of the supermarket petrol station. It was aware Miss M had reported the matter as 
Ref: DRN47830782road rage to the police but it didnt pursue that either. It was aware she thought it was a 
malicious claim from the outset but it didnt investigate this, despite the fact that it appears 
the other driver stayed in her car.
Nonetheless taking  all this into account, esures  legal  adviser  said he thought the best 
outcome would have  been each party being 50% to blame as it was one persons word  
against another. That would have still meant  Miss M would have had a fault claim on her 
insurance record, so it wouldnt have made  much difference  to her.
So on this basis, given  esure does have the right to settle any claim as it thinks fit, I do 
consider esure should compensate Miss M more  than its £75 compensation that it paid her. I 
dont think it did enough to keep Miss M informed or to investigate her account of the 
circumstances. 
I consider the sum of a further £300  suggested  by the investigator to be fair and more in line 
with what I have awarded in similar  circumstances. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require esure  Insurance Limited  to pay Miss M a further £300 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4783078