K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains about a travel  insurance policy she took out with Union Reiseversicherung 
AG (URV). She says the policy terms were  unclear  and misleading, and as a result  she 
didnt realise her camera wasnt covered until after shed made a claim. 
My references to URV include its agent. 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I intended to uphold this complaint, and I attach an extract:
Miss C took out a travel insurance policy with URV. During her trip her digital camera was 
water damaged while snorkelling,  when the protective  plastic case failed. Miss C made a 
claim to URV.
URV turned down  Miss Cs claim. It said that the camera wasnt  covered because  Miss C 
hadnt taken the additional  optional cover for gadgets or mobile phones.  And under the 
policy a gadget  included a camera. 
Miss C said URVs  policy terms were  misleading.  The policy  said lost, stolen, damaged or 
delayed possessions were covered  to include electrical items. Shed thought her camera 
was an electrical item. She didnt think it was usual  for a camera to be referred to as a 
gadget. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as he didnt consider the policy terms were 
misleading. He said URV  had given Miss C enough  information to make  an informed 
decision about the cover  she required. Miss C didnt agree so the complaints come to me for 
review. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. 
Miss C has made a number of detailed points in support  of her complaint. Ive considered  all 
of her submissions. But in deciding this complaint I will focus on the points that I consider to 
be central to the dispute.
As the seller of the policy  URV is required to highlight any significant  and/or unusual 
restrictions in the policy so that Miss C, the consumer, is able to make an informed decision 
about whether  the policy is suitable for her. 
In my experience most travel insurance  policies cover valuable items - including  cameras - 
under the personal possessions section. In the policy sold by URV there was no cover for 
cameras under the standard policys possessions  section,  and so Ive considered whether 
URV brought  this unusual policy restriction fairly to Miss Cs attention.  I dont think it did and 
Ill explain  why.
In its summary document, under possessions, URV refers to the cover for valuable items, 
but it doesnt specifically define valuable items.  It says that gadget  cover  is provided only if a 
Ref: DRN49572562separate policy extension is purchased. It doesnt define gadgets in the summary, but refers  
to them  as gadgets including smart/mobile phones and tablet computers. 
Miss Cs point is that she didnt consider a camera to be a gadget so didnt think  shed need 
to pay the additional premium for gadget cover. I think she makes a fair point. It was for URV  
to make it clear that a camera  being  an item commonly taken on holiday  would be 
covered only under  the gadget section of the policy, for payment of an additional  premium,  
and that it was not covered under the possessions section. And I dont  think it was clear  that 
a camera wasnt covered under that section.  Ive seen the gadget definition in the sales 
process, which says it includes photographic  equipment.  But Miss C doesnt recall seeing  
the definition,  and I accept that. I think shed have seen it only if shed decided  she needed 
gadget cover. 
Ive thought about whether Miss C should  have specifically read all the policy  wording to 
check her camera  was covered, given  that shes explained that cover  for her digital camera 
was important for her. But I think shed have reasonably  thought  from the information in the 
policy summary about possessions being  covered  for loss, theft and damage  that her 
camera would have  been covered. And even  if shed read the policy,  given that the specific 
definitions werent  highlighted within the possessions section, I dont think  the restriction  was 
sufficiently clear. 
If the policy summary had made it clear that the camera  wouldnt be covered by the standard 
policy I think it likely, on balance, Miss C would have  taken a different travel insurance  policy  
which did cover  her camera. I say this because she had intended to take her digital camera 
on holiday, which included a boat trip. So the gadget cover wouldnt have been  suitable for 
her anyway, as water  damage was excluded. So I think shes been  disadvantaged  by the 
misleading policy terms. 
Miss C has explained  the steps she took to protect her digital camera  by placing it in a case 
specifically designed  to be waterproof. It seems  to me she took reasonable care and that 
she acted as if uninsured.  URV doesnt suggest otherwise. So I think  its fair that URV 
should pay her claim for the damaged camera, as its likely  her claim would have been paid 
under a different insurance policy.  
The camera  was between  18 months and two years  old at the time of claim. It had cost £495 
new. In my experience most travel policies  dont provide cover on a new for old basis.  For a 
camera this age URV would make  a 25% deduction for wear  and tear. And I think  that would 
be a reasonable  deduction in this case. Based on a price of £495 and a 25% deduction of 
£123.75 this means  I intend to require URV to pay Miss C £371.25. URV must add 8% 
simple interest to the claim payment as set out below.
I invited both Miss C and URV to respond to my provisional decision.
responses to my provisional  decision
Miss C responded  to say that she was delighted Id considered all her points, although she 
noted Id focused on the ones I thought were central  to her complaint. She didnt have any 
further comments or evidence to add. 
URV responded to say it didnt accept  my provisional decision. It said:
A summary document could  only summarise the cover available, and cant  include  
every single policy detail.  This is why at the top of page  one of the summary it clearly 
Ref: DRN49572563directs the customer to the terms and conditions. (URV sent me a copy highlighting 
this direction).
The summary document is brand-wide, so it cant contain  specific  information  for 
each and every level of cover. This is why it refers  the customer  to specific policy  
wording. Miss C bought a last minute level of cover,  which doesnt provide 
cancellation cover, but the policy summary  refers to cancellation cover. URV asks if 
Im suggesting that it should produce individual summary documents  for each level of 
cover it provides.
If it did accept the decision with the camera being an electrical  item the policy limit of 
£300 (as shown  on page 21 of the policy) must  be applied. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought  about URVs comments but they dont change my mind. I still uphold  
this complaint, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and here. 
I appreciate URV cant set out every  policy detail in a policy  summary,  and it can refer a 
consumer to the full terms and conditions. But it does have to highlight  significant and/or 
unusual policy terms so that a consumer can make  an informed decision about whether the 
policy is right for them.
I dont think URV did make it sufficiently clear  that a camera wouldnt be considered  to be an 
electrical item under its policy. This is an unusual term in a travel  policy.  And yet it wasnt  
highlighted either in the sales  process or the policy document. 
URV refers  to there  being  no cancellation cover for this particular policy, as an example of 
why the policy summary  cant  be specific to each individual consumer. Im deciding Miss Cs 
complaint about  a different issue. But it seems  likely  to me that the lack of cancellation cover 
would (and should) have been highlighted at the point of sale.
Ive made  a finding that if URV had made it clear a camera  wouldnt be covered as a 
personal belonging, under electrical items  then Miss C would likely have bought a different 
policy which  did cover  her camera.  So I dont  need  to apply URVs policy  limit when requiring 
it to pay her claim. So URV must  pay her claim without applying its policy limit.
But as I said in my provisional decision, most  travel  policies  dont  cover  items on a new for 
old basis. URVs usual depreciation deduction  of 25% deduction for a camera  between 18 
months and two year old seemed to me to be in line with the type of wear  and tear 
deductions made by other travel insurers. And so its likely  that Miss Cs claim to another  
travel insurer  would have  resulted  in a similar deduction. Its for this reason I think  URV can 
make the 25% depreciation deduction.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and I require Union Reiseversicherung AG to pay Miss C £371.25, 
together with interest*  at the simple  rate of 8% per year from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Ref: DRN49572564Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Union Reiseversicherung AG considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Miss C how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss C a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4957256