K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the outcome of a claim he made  to Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (section 75). Mr C is represented in the 
complaint by a claims management company (CMC), but for ease, Ill refer just to Mr C.
background
Mr C purchased timeshare points in 1999.  In late 2011 and early 2012, using his credit card,  
he paid a company  Ill call X, a total of £790 asking them  to relinquish his timeshare points. 
In 2013, Mr C purchased  more timeshare points. As X hadnt  relinquished  his original 
timeshare points, in 2017 he paid another company Ill call Y, £6,820  to relinquish both the 
1999 and 2013 points.  He paid Y by cheque.  
It appears neither  X nor Y were successful  in relinquishing the timeshare agreements, so 
Mr C made  a claim to BoS under section  75 asking for a refund of the fees hed paid. BoS 
looked into Mr Cs claim and agreed  to refund the £790 that he paid X using his credit card 
and offered compensation of £50 for some  problems in the handling of the claim. Mr C 
rejected the offer and complained to our service as he felt he should also receive a refund 
for what hed paid Y. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She felt BoS had looked into Mr Cs claim 
fairly and didnt uphold his complaint. BoS accepted our investigators assessment, but Mr C 
didnt. He said that X has been named as being part of a scam  and was shut down by the 
UK authorities. Mr C said that as Y was set up by a former director of X, he has in effect  paid 
the same  company twice for the same work so the transactions  should be considered as 
one. As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision 
to be made.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 says that in some circumstances the borrower under a credit  agreement has an 
equal right to claim against the credit provider  if theres either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods  or services. One of the circumstances for such  a 
claim to be valid is that there  must be a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement. The 
formal wording for a DCS agreement is set out in section 12 of the CCA.  In summary it says 
there needs to be a three-party agreement  between a debtor,  a creditor and a supplier. A 
creditor may be liable for the whole transaction even if only part of the money was paid using 
credit.
In this case, Mr C would be the debtor,  X and/or Y the supplier,  and BoS would be the 
creditor where it has provided Mr C with credit towards the purchase price of the contract 
with the supplier. Where Mr C has paid by cheque to Y, he hasnt used credit as hes spent 
money from his current account. So if the contracts with X and Y are treated separately,  
theres no liability on BoS to refund Mr C the payments he made to Y as theres no DCS. 
BoS have agreed  to refund the money  spent on the credit card towards  the contract with X.   
I need to consider whether the transactions Mr C made to X and Y ought to be considered 
as one transaction or contract  in order to decide if BoS has any liability  to Mr C for the 
Ref: DRN44117812payments made to Y. Im sorry to disappoint  Mr C, but I dont  think  they can. Let me explain 
why. 
Mr C appointed X to relinquish the timeshare  agreement  he bought in 1999. He signed a 
contract with that company and paid the fees due under it using his credit  card.  According  to 
his statement to us, Mr C then bought  some  more timeshare points in 2013. In 2017, he 
appointed Y to relinquish all of his timeshare  points, including the new ones hed bought in 
2013. As we know, he paid for Ys services by cheque.
Mr C entered two separate contracts, one with X and another with Y, six years apart. The 
contract with X covered  the timeshare points agreement bought in 1999  and predated his 
purchase in 2013.  The one with Y covered more timeshare points some of which  Mr C didnt 
own at the time of the first contract. So the companies, the contracts, the dates  and the 
agreements to be relinquished are different in each  case. Having considered the 
circumstances here,  I dont think we can consider the two transactions  as being one and the 
same despite the common thread of a shared director and similar work. 
BoS have looked into Mr Cs claim under section 75 and have agreed to refund the 
payments he made to X using his credit card. But they have not agreed to do so for the 
payments he made to Y. I understand Mr Cs disappointment as he paid far more  to Y than 
he did to X, but BoS have no liability to him for the payments made  by cheque under section 
75 as the relevant relationships and circumstances do not exist.  I cant reasonably say that 
BoS have treated Mr C unfairly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2021.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4411781