K820x#14complaint
Mrs D has complained that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy  in 1997 that was linked to her mortgage.
background
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On her behalf, Mrs Ds representative  disagreed with these findings. It has highlighted that 
when sold the policy, Mrs D was entitled to six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay. It considers  that Mrs D did not need  PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ds case.
I have firstly considered whether Mrs D was given a choice  about taking out PPI, and 
whether she agreed  to do so. I appreciate that Mrs D has provided  her recollections about  
how the policy was sold. However, in my view it would  be understandable if Mrs D found it 
difficult to recall all the details of her discussions with the Santander representative,  bearing  
in mind that these  events  happened more than 20 years ago. Santander has only been  able 
to provide a very limited  amount of information from the point of sale.  I dont  find this 
surprising, again  due to the number of years that have passed.
With limited documentation being available from 1997, I have to decide what  I consider is 
most likely to have happened when the policy was taken out. I have carefully considered  the 
description of the sale provided by Mrs D. However, as the policy  was a separate  product to 
the mortgage, my view is that it is more likely than not that Mrs D had to complete  separate  
documents to request that PPI be taken out. This would have indicated that it was an 
optional product. In addition,  PPI was taken out some years after the mortgage had been 
arranged. On balance,  I consider it more likely  than not that Mrs D was offered the PPI as an 
option, and that she requested it be taken out.
Santander accepts  that it advised  Mrs D to take out PPI. It therefore  had to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the advice it gave  was suitable.  It also had to give clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the PPI so that Mrs D could make  a properly informed choice.
Having looked  at Mrs Ds circumstances when the policy was sold,  my view is that it was 
suitable for her for the following reasons:
Mrs D has highlighted  the level of sick pay she was entitled to from her employer when 
sold PPI, and has also confirmed  that she had other  means  to help meet her mortgage  
repayments if she wasnt working.
However, the PPI policy  would have covered the loan repayments if Mrs D had been 
unable to work due to disability or unemployment, and this would have been in addition 
to any other benefits she was entitled to. On balance my view is that PPI provided a 
useful benefit  to Mrs D if she was unable to work because of disability or unemployment.
Ref: DRN45785212It seems  that Mrs D was eligible for the cover, and wouldnt  have been  affected by any of 
the main things not covered by the policy that might  make  it unsuitable for her.
The PPI premium looks to have been  affordable.
There might  have been other areas  in which Santander didnt give Mrs D as much  
information as it should have done. But for the same reasons that Ive decided the policy 
was suitable for Mrs D, my view is that better  information would not have put Mrs D off taking 
out the PPI.
I appreciate that Mrs D will be disappointed with my findings. However, my conclusion is that 
the policy was not mis-sold to her.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D because : 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs D about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mrs D, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mrs D any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Mrs D any extra interest 
she paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mrs D the extra she paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mrs D 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs D can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs D any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4578521