K822xcomplaint
Mrs I complains that RCI Financial Services Limited  (RCI) were wrong to terminate her 
finance agreement  and repossess the vehicle it financed.
background 
Mrs I took receipt of an almost new car in May 2017. She financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with RCI but later that year she fell into arrears. In February 2018 RCI 
say they sent Mrs I a default letter as the account was three months in arrears. Mrs I says 
she didnt receive  that letter and was therefore disappointed to receive  a termination letter 
the following  month that said,  as the arrears  mentioned on the default letter hadnt been 
settled, the agreement would be terminated;  the full sum would become due and the car 
would be repossessed and sold, with the proceeds being used to reduce the balance  on the 
account.
Mrs I contacted RCI and says she asked them if theyd allow her to pay the arrears as she 
hadnt received  the default  letter. But RCI refused her offer;  collected  the car and sold it at 
auction. The outstanding balance on the agreement was a little under £5,000 after the 
proceeds from the car sale had been credited to the account.
RCI said that they did send the default  letter. They said theyd made several  attempts to 
contact Mrs I by telephone and by letter and had satisfied themselves  before issuing the 
termination letter that all efforts  to contact the customer had been exhausted. They  
explained that when Mrs I contacted them after shed received the termination  letter  she 
wanted to make a payment arrangement to repay the arrears and wasnt  able to pay the 
arrears in their entirety. So they didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
But Mrs I did and she therefore  referred her complaint  to this service.  Our adjudicator  
reviewed the evidence. She explained  that the default notice was sent to Mrs I at the same  
address as the termination notice and that the termination notice referred to the previous 
default notice.  She explained that there was no requirement to send  default  notices by 
registered post. She reviewed the evidence  provided by RCI and noted that theyd tried to 
contact Mrs I by a variety of means  to arrange for the arrears to be paid. But she noted  
theyd been unable to do so. And she didnt think Mrs I had told RCI shed pay the arrears  
she thought it was clear  shed been trying to establish a payment plan with them  but RCI 
werent willing to engage  with that. So she thought the best way forward would  be for Mrs I 
to now enter  into a payment plan with RCI to pay off the arrears. RCI said theyd accept 
£200 per month subject  to an income and expenditure analysis.
But Mrs I disagreed. She said shed received no phone messages from RCI and she 
stressed that she hadnt received the default  notice.  So she asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mrs I so please let me explain 
why.
Ref: DRN48477682Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs I acquired  her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.
Mrs I was three months in arrears  by the time the default notice was issued. The terms of 
her finance  agreement with RCI say:
If you are late making  a payment  we will be entitled to send  you a default  notice asking  
you to pay the arrearsif you do not comply with the terms of the default notice, we will 
regard such failure  as an indication by you that you have repudiated the agreement and if 
this happens,  we will write to you to confirm that this agreement  is at an end and you will be 
required to pay us (the full amount  plus arrears  and costs) and return the goods 
So I think the consequences of missing payments were clear  and I can see that, at the point 
RCI issued the default, Mrs I was three months  in arrears. So I think they were within their 
rights to issue it. They were also within their rights to repossess the vehicle as the terms of 
the agreement  explained that if Mrs I hadnt  made one third of the payments they could do 
so.
Ive reviewed RCIs system notes and can see that they called Mrs I but were unable  to 
reach her on several occasions in January and February. They  sent a notice of arrears  in 
mid January and, whilst  I understand  Mrs I disputes this, they tried to contact a number they 
believed was Mrs Is work  number. So I can see that they made  reasonable and quite 
comprehensive attempts  to contact Mrs I to talk about the arrears  and, having  not been  able 
to do so, I think it was reasonable to issue the default.
Im persuaded that its most likely  Mrs I received the default letter  because:
Ive seen a dated  copy of it
it appears to have been  sent to the correct address
Mrs I did receive  a termination letter that was sent to the same address a month  
later, so that suggests  she was receiving  mail and RCIs  mail system  was working
I dont think theres evidence that Mrs I tried to repay the full arrears  when she called after 
shed received the termination notification. RCI didnt  have  to accept the full payment at that 
point as theyd  already  terminated the account.  But it seems Mrs I wanted to make part 
payments and I think in those circumstances RCI didnt  have  to accept her offer.
So Im not persuaded that there is evidence here that RCI have done  anything  wrong or that 
they need to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN48477683Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4847768