K820x#14complaint
Miss H and Mr R complain that esure Insurance Limited settled a claim against their motor 
insurance policy without  considering all the evidence.
background
On 11 July 2018 a cyclist reported to esure having  just been in a collision with a car driven 
by Mr R. Miss H was a passenger at the time.  The cyclist said Mr R had turned right to get 
into a side street from a main road across  the cyclists  path. The cyclist hit the rear 
passenger side of the car and the bike was damaged.
esure spoke  to Miss H, who gave  a similar account  of events. She said Mr R had paused 
whilst carrying  out the manoeuvre as there was an obstruction in the side street.  esures 
advisor told Miss H that as Mr R had turned into the path of a cyclist who was correctly  
proceeding, it would be a fault claim. esures  notes show that when  Mr R called esure later 
he said Miss H had been railroaded. He objected  to the way the advisor had spoken to her, 
as she was upset  by it. He didnt agree with its decision. He said hed send in dashcam 
footage and pointed out that there was CCTV coverage of the scene from a garage.  
esure settled  the claim but kept it open, pending more evidence  from Mr M. He told esure on 
2 August 2018  that when  he made the turn the car was stationary for two minutes  (with  its 
rear end in the main  road) before  the cyclist hit it. The next day the garages owner told 
esure hed send the CCTV footage  to it. He said it showed that Mr R paused for a few 
seconds only when  turning into the side road. esure  never got the CCTV footage, despite 
making a further  request for it. It then closed the file. Mr R wasnt  happy with that, but he 
didnt send in the dashcam footage until February 2019. esure reviewed it, but after doing so 
it said the decision it had made was correct.   
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  made by Miss H and Mr R. He thought 
esure had acted reasonably and had given a reasonable explanation for its decision.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it was reasonable  for the advisor  to inform  Miss H that he thought the circumstances 
she and the cyclist  had described  meant that there  would be a fault claim on the policy.  
esure has explained that it took into account that the cyclist was correctly proceeding on the 
main road, and that cyclists  are regarded as vulnerable  road users. 
Initially, Mr R didnt give esure  his account of events. He didnt  send in the dashcam 
evidence for a long time. I think esure was entitled to expect him to co-operate with it when 
he was directly challenging the other accounts of the accident it had been given. It seems  
from the file notes that Mr M thought  esure had made an instant  decision  about liability. So it 
looks as though he may have decided at that point it wasnt worth giving his account to it. I 
dont think it would have  changed anything if he had. The dashcam evidence  was viewed 
when it finally arrived, but esure thought it supported the cyclists account.
Ref: DRN45876202It isnt clear whether  or not an advisor told Mr R that esure  would keep the file open  for a 
while - pending  further evidence.  But I dont  think there was any reason for it to keep the file 
open indefinitely.  It might have been better  had it done so until an advisor had spoken to the 
garage owner about the CCTV coverage. But I think its clear  that it wouldnt  have  made any 
difference to the outcome had an advisor  contacted  the garage owner earlier.
The garage owner confirmed the account  given by the cyclist and by Miss H about  Mr Rs 
manoeuvre. His account didnt tally with Mr Rs account of the car having  been stationary for 
two minutes before the cyclist hit it. The garage owner said the car was still for only a few 
seconds. That meant the bike must have been approaching the side road at the time Mr M 
made his manoeuvre. Although the CCTV footage never arrived,  that isnt esures  fault. And 
it had an account  of what was on the footage  from an independent source.  
I dont think the evidence shows that esure acted unreasonably in the way it dealt with the 
claim. In my opinion, it was reasonable for esure to conclude that that Mr M carried out a 
manoeuvre without taking  into account a nearby cyclist.  Given its experience of dealing with 
cases involving cyclists, I dont think it was unreasonable for esure to point out that they are 
viewed as vulnerable road users by the courts. I think its fair to say that motorists have to 
take even greater care than usual if a cyclist is in the vicinity.
I think esure has shown that it was prepared to take any further  evidence  into account  even 
after closing the claim. It indicated  that it would have been  prepared to change  its decision if 
necessary  presumably by removing the fault claim from the record.  But in the end it didnt 
think there was any basis for doing so, which I think was reasonable in the circumstances.
esure also addressed  Mr Rs concern about its advisors conversation  with Miss H. It didnt 
think the advisor was at fault, but it apologised for any upset that was caused. It said the 
advisor had been  given  feedback. Based on the limited details set out in the file on this 
issue, I think that was a reasonable way to deal with it.
As I dont think Miss H and Mr R have shown  that esure acted unreasonably, I cant  uphold 
their complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules  I must ask Miss H and Mr R to accept or reject it before  22 August 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4587620