K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Miss C and Mr H took out recently  with 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). Theyre unhappy with the way NatWest 
administers overpayments, and with the information they received when they made one. 
Theyve brought the complaint together, but our dealings have been primarily with Miss C.
background
Miss C and Mr H took the mortgage out in 2018  on the advice and recommendation of a 
third party intermediary Ill call MS. The mortgage  was for £150,000, repayable over seven 
years, with an initial fixed rate of 2.09% for the first five years.  The fixed rate deal came with 
an early repayment charge (ERC), but theres a provision for up to 10% of each years  
balance to be repaid without incurring  the ERC.
In January 2019, Miss C made a lump sum overpayment  of £5,000; NatWests  default policy 
is to reduce the monthly payment to keep  the original term intact if a lump sum reduction  is 
more than £1,000. Miss C told the bank theyd  prefer to keep  the payment unchanged,  at 
around £1,920  a month, in order to pay the mortgage off more quickly. NatWest agreed  to 
this on the phone but a few days later, told Miss C and Mr H that the monthly payment had 
been reduced to just over £1,856. 
Miss C called again, and NatWest restored the monthly payment to its previous level. 
NatWest apologised  for reducing  the monthly amount after Miss C asked  for it to stay as it 
was, and paid £100 compensation for their time, trouble and upset. But it also said that the 
figure now included  £64 of overpayment per month,  which would count towards  to the 10% 
allowance. Miss C and Mr H think thats unfair, and contrary to the understanding they had 
when they took the mortgage  out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If I dont comment  on any specific point 
its not because  Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an 
overview and decide  whats fair in the round.
The complaint is simpler  than it seems. Miss C and Mr H contracted with NatWest  to repay 
£150,000 over seven years, They can pay more than the contractual  amount to reduce the 
debt more quickly if they wish, and there are two ways  to do that; individual lump sums, and 
paying more than the contractual  payment  each  month. But if the extra  they pay in any given 
year reduces  the balance by more than 10% above and beyond the contractually-scheduled 
reduction, they become  liable for an ERC on amounts that exceed  the 10% allowance.
That being  the case, its perfectly logical that if Miss C and Mr H opt to keep their monthly 
amount unchanged after a lump  sum reduction, the extra then counts towards that years 
10% allowance.  For it to work any other  way would introduce the possibility for borrowers to 
pay more than the 10% allowance  without incurring an ERC, and the underlying  contract 
doesnt permit  that. In that context, I dont  find Miss Cs observations  about making individual 
payments of less than £1,000 to avoid triggering a recalculation of the contractual amount 
relevant to the eventual outcome.
Ref: DRN48071622Miss C and Mr H say they werent expecting the mortgage to operate this way, and that 
NatWest has misled  them. Im not sure thats  fair criticism. The mortgage documentation 
sets out what is allowed  in terms of overpayments, but is silent on the mechanics  of how 
NatWest administers them. I dont  find that unusual or concerning,  and in any event, its for 
the regulator of mortgage  business to decide  what information lenders must  put in their 
documents. 
What that does tells me, though, is that any expectations Miss C and Mr H will have formed 
about how their overpayments would be administered cant have been formed by anything 
NatWest said (or didnt  say) in the mortgage  documentation. After all, if NatWest  didnt say 
anything about  how it administers overpayments,  it cant have said anything wrong. On the 
other hand, if Miss C and Mr H needed to know how this aspect of their mortgage  would 
work before they agreed to take it out  and couldnt  glean anything from the mortgage offer 
 then it was incumbent on them to ask specific questions  about it first. 
In the normal  course of events, Id expect those  questions to be asked of MS, the 
intermediary that sold the mortgage to Miss C and Mr H and recommended it as suitable for 
their needs.  Ive seen  a comment  to the effect  that MS was surprised to learn how NatWest 
treats overpayments, which  suggests its unlikely Miss C and Mr H asked MS the question,  
so that it could make the necessary enquiries  of NatWest.
Miss C says she and Mr H were mis-sold the mortgage; I can make  no findings on that here,  
as this is a complaint against NatWest, and NatWest didnt sell the mortgage. If Miss C and 
Mr H wished to pursue a separate mis-selling complaint,  theyd need  to do so with MS first, 
and then refer it to us if not satisfied with the outcome. But they should draw  no inferences 
from anything I say here about  whether  they should complain, or what  the outcome would be 
if they did.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint, or make any order or award  against National Westminster Bank Plc. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 August  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4807162