K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  about  AXA PPP Healthcare  Limiteds handling of her claim under her 
private medical insurance policy.
background
Miss B was pregnant. She suffered pelvic girdle pain. Her midwife referred her to an NHS 
physiotherapist. She began treatment and was signed off work by her GP.
While under the care of the NHS physiotherapist, Miss B contacted  AXA PPP to seek  
authorisation for additional therapy. 
AXA PPP eventually authorised treatment and Miss B was seen by an osteopath who was 
able to improve her condition. However, Miss B was unhappy at the delay in getting this 
treatment. She complained to AXA PPP and said this delay had resulted in her being off 
work for longer than necessary, with a consequent  loss of pay.
AXA PPP acknowledged that there  had been some confusion in explaining to Miss B which 
type of therapy she was entitled  to receive  and this had caused a ten day delay. It offered 
£100 in compensation for this.
Miss B didnt accept  AXA PPPs offer. She referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied  
that AXA PPPs offer of compensation  was fair.
Miss B didnt accept  the investigators  findings. She said the delay had meant  shed been  
unable to work and the loss of income had been at a critical time, immediately before she 
started maternity leave.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Miss B initially contacted  AXA PPP through its online portal,  saying she was under the care 
of an NHS  physiotherapist but wanted get authorisation for massage or acupuncture 
therapy. 
AXA PPP asked for further details, including  a copy of the referral  letter  and permission to 
access Miss Bs medical records. Miss B was unhappy at being  asked  to provide this 
information and so there was an exchange of messages  which went on for over a week.  
However, Im satisfied that AXA PPP was entitled to ask for the information in question. It 
couldnt authorise treatment without establishing that Miss B was eligible to receive  this. And 
it needed further details before it could decide  on her eligibility. I dont find AXA PPP at fault 
for its handling of the claim at this stage.  
Ref: DRN47200452AXA PPP eventually received satisfactory  information to demonstrate that Miss Bs condition  
wasnt pre-existing and so was eligible.  However, because Miss B didnt have a GP referral 
for a particular therapy, AXA PPP passed Miss B to its Working  Body  team for assistance. 
Im satisfied that this was appropriate. Miss Bs policy  explains  that she has cover  of up to 
£500 a year for therapies  such as physiotherapy and osteopathy so long as she is referred 
by her GP, specialist or Working Body team. She didnt have a GP or specialist referral letter 
and therefore  needed to speak to the team so it could refer her to the appropriate therapist.
AXA PPP accepts that in the initial call between Miss B and the Working Body team,  the 
team provided a poor service in that it failed  to give clear advice about  which  therapists she 
was authorised to receive treatment from. The confusion was eventually  cleared up in 
another phone  call ten days  later. It was for this delay  that AXA PPP offered the £100 
compensation.
Miss B says that she was prevented from working  during  this period and then started  her 
maternity leave. She believes she may have  been able to return  to work before the start of 
her maternity leave,  and consequently earned more money, if she had been  referred  to the 
osteopath sooner.  However, Miss B had already been off work for two weeks or so before 
the ten day delay occurred and I have no evidence to show that earlier treatment  would 
definitely have  enabled Miss B to return to work  before  she embarked on her maternity 
leave. I therefore  cant reasonably take Miss Bs loss of income  into account in deciding on 
appropriate compensation. Im satisfied that the offered compensation of £100  is fair.
While the complaint has been waiting  for my decision, Miss B has raised other issues about  
AXA PPP failing to pay the osteopaths  invoices which has meant that she has been unable 
to return to the osteopath for further  necessary treatment.  These  issues  were not raised by 
Miss B in her original complaint to us which was simply  about  the delay before she was able 
to receive her initial treatment. I havent therefore  addressed these issues  in my decision.  If 
Miss B is unhappy about AXA PPPs further actions in settling her claim,  she will need to 
raise a new complaint  with it.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4720045