K821x#15complaint
Miss Y complains  that Uncle Buck Finance  LLP lent money to her that she couldnt afford to 
repay.
background
Miss Y entered into two loans with Uncle Buck. The first was taken out in January 2016  for 
£200 and the second in September 2017 for £350.  Both were  repayable  over three  months.
Miss Y says that insufficient  checks were  carried out before  the loans were  provided and that 
had these taken  place Uncle Buck would have realised she had numerous other short  term 
loan commitments. She says she was borrowing to meet  her other  financial commitments  
and living  costs.
Uncle Buck  says that before providing  the first loan to Miss Y it carried  out a credit check 
which confirmed her monthly income as £1,200 and that she had provided accurate 
employment information. It says it asked Miss Y about her monthly expenses which she 
disclosed as £50. It says this gave her a disposable  income of £1,150 and she met its 
lending criteria. It says the loan was repaid in line with the agreement.
Miss Y applied for a second loan in September 2017 and Uncle Buck  says her income 
remained unchanged from her first application.  It says she provided a monthly  expenditure 
figure of £500  which included  £100  for other  credit commitments. This left a disposable 
income of £700.
Uncle Buck  says it carried out sufficient affordability checks  before providing  the loans and 
that the information gathered did not suggest Miss Y was in financial difficulty.  It says it was 
reasonable that it relied on the information Miss Y provided about her income  and expenses  
and that the credit search carried out didnt raise any concerns.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. Although he thought  the checks carried out were 
sufficient he said the information gathered suggested the loans were not sustainably 
affordable. Because of this he said Uncle Buck should refund the interest and charges on 
both loans and remove any negative information  relating  to them  from Miss Ys credit  file.
Uncle Buck  did not accept  our adjudicators view. It said that the view showed Miss Y was 
left with £175 to repay an instalment of £95 on her first loan.  It said this left enough  for 
Miss Y to deal with any emergency expenditure and that this amount would accrue over the 
loan.
It also noted the expenses figure used in our adjudicators calculation was significantly 
higher than Miss Y had disclosed at the time of the loan (£1,025  compared to £50). It said it 
confirmed Miss Ys expenses on a call in May 2016 and she said that her partner paid a 
number of the costs  (such  as rent and bills) and she didnt have other  loan commitments,  
apart from a £30 payment to a credit card.
Uncle Buck  also said that it carried out sufficient checks before  the second  loan was 
provided and noted  that Miss Ys expenses included an amount  for other  credit  
commitments. It noted that Miss Y had made payments to other  short term lenders in the 
previous month but even taking this into account  the loan was affordable.
Ref: DRN44621122my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
before  the first loan was provided information  about Miss Ys income  and expenses  was 
gathered. Uncle Buck  said that a credit  check was carried out but the information  from 
this wasnt provided;
it was reasonable  that the income  information was relied on. However  Miss Ys declared  
expenses were  low, even taking into consideration that she was living with someone.  I 
didnt think it reasonable at this stage to have  expected Uncle  Buck to have carried  out a 
full analysis of Miss Ys bank  statements. But I thought further  questions  could have 
been asked or external data used  as the basis for the affordability assessment;
I considered what information  Miss Y would have provided if she had been asked for 
further details  and took into account the details  provided of the call that took place in May 
2016. Based  on this I didnt find that I have  enough evidence to say that Uncle  Buck 
should have realised the first loan was unaffordable;
Miss Y repaid her first loan and didnt then receive  another loan from Uncle  Buck until 
September 2017, although she made an application for a loan in May 2016 which was 
declined. Given the timing of the second  loan it was reasonable  to consider this as part 
of a new lending  chain;
the checks carried out before the second  loan was provided were sufficient. However the 
credit check  information received by Uncle Buck contained information  about Miss Ys 
debts and I thought it would  have  been  reasonable to have included a higher  figure  for 
her credit  and store card repayments;
Uncle Buck was aware that Miss Y had other short term lending and said she had an 
outstanding loan of £300. Had Uncle Buck  deducted this this from Miss Ys income  as 
well as her expenses  and a further  amount to account for her credit  commitments I 
thought this would have shown  this loan was not sustainably affordable.
Overall, while  I accepted that Uncle Buck  did carry out sufficient  checks  before providing the 
loans, I thought that based on the information it received it should have realised the second 
loan was not sustainably affordable.
Uncle Buck  responded to my provisional  decision reiterating information it provided in 
response to our adjudicators view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend to Miss Y, Uncle Buck had to make  sure each time that she could 
afford to repay the loans. Affordability  checks should  be proportionate. What is proportionate  
depends on things  like  but not limited to  the size of the loan, the repayments, what Uncle  
Buck knew  about  Miss Y and the things she told it about her circumstances.
Ref: DRN44621123In this case I think that the checks carried out before the loans were provided were  sufficient.  
However I think that the information received should  have raised concerns. 
In regard to the first loan, I think that the expenses information should have been considered 
further. But I also note the comments Miss Y had made  in a call with Uncle  Buck and accept 
that she would have been more  likely  than not to have given these  comments  in response  to 
any questions raised about her expenditure prior to the first loan. At this stage, I dont  think  it 
would have been reasonable to expect Uncle Buck to have carried out a full review of 
Miss Ys financial situation.  On balance, I dont think the information provided  showed this 
loan was unaffordable and so I dont uphold this complaint in regard to the first loan.
In regard to the second loan, I note the comments made by Uncle  Buck in regard to Miss Y 
still having funds  available  after taking into account the short  term loan amount it had noted. 
However, I think that the information received in the credit report  should have raised 
concerns about  the amount included for her credit commitments and that further 
investigation should have taken place  or a higher number included.  
Had a more accurate  amount been  included for Miss Ys credit  commitments along with an 
amount for her short  term loan commitments, I think Uncle Buck  would have realised this 
loan was not sustainably affordable. Therefore I uphold this complaint in regard to the 
second loan.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Uncle  Buck Finance LLP should:
1.refund  all interest and charges that Miss Y paid on the second loan (September 
2017).
2.pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
3.remove any negative information  about this loan from Miss Ys credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Miss Y a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2019.  
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4462112