K820x#14the complaint
Mr B is seeking to recover about £47,000 from Barclays Bank UK PLC, which  he claims was 
stolen from his bank  account as a result of a third-party scam.
background
In March 2017, Mr B decided to purchase stock  from a mobile  phone  shop he had been told 
was going out of business. According  to Mr B, a friend of his  who for the purposes of this 
decision Ill refer to as S  convinced him to transfer money to bankroll this venture. 
Mr B was shortly due to be flying to Pakistan on 27 March  2017 and he says he told S that 
he may not have the time to organise everything. But S assured him that he could  arrange  
the acquisition  of the stock  which Mr B trusted him to do. Mr B therefore agreed  to the deal 
on the basis that he would get his money  back,  plus a profit. So, he sent multiple  online 
payments from his Barclays account on 20 and 21 March 2017. These reached a number  of 
different beneficiary  accounts and totalled  nearly  £30,000.
But shortly  afterwards, Mr B grew worried that his contact attempts with the recipients  of the 
payments were going unanswered.  And, crucially,  he hadnt received  any of the promised 
stock. After expressing his concern to S, Mr B says he left this individual with his Barclays  
account security credentials, amongst a host of other personal information,  including  his 
debit card, PIN, online  banking details and a copy of his passport. Mr B believed that S was 
going to report  the scam  to Barclays on his behalf  something that Mr B felt he had no 
choice but to trust his so-called friend to do in light of his imminent departure  to Pakistan. 
Also, S claimed to have  a contact at Barclays who could help.
Before leaving the country, Mr B says he was contacted by someone  claiming  to be from 
Barclays. Unbeknown to him at the time, this individual was pretending to be bank staff and 
Mr B says they tricked  him into divulging his online  banking login information. Then, they 
managed to convince him not to log on to his online banking or check  the account for the 
foreseeable future. Consequently, Mr B claims to have first checked his account again 
around the time that he returned  to the UK in October 2017. Upon which,  he discovered that 
someone had withdrawn over £10,000 in cash while he was away;  plus carrying  out point of 
sale transactions (POS) that totalled  more than £2,000.  All of which meant  Mr B claimed to 
have lost over £47,000. In the meantime, S had not returned his contact attempts for some 
time and had not delivered on the business  deal. 
To make matters  worse,  Mr B realised that payday loans had also been taken out in his 
name  which  he says was managed by someone stealing his identity. Around £6,000  
credited his account in late March 2017 from multiple payday lenders expecting  repayment. 
Again, Mr B says he didnt  realise  this until October 2017. 
Mr B told Barclays that he thought hed been the victim of a scam. At which point, he 
accused S of taking  out this lending  in his name and stealing money from the account.  
Whats more, Mr B found it unfair that Barclays decided to close  the account with insufficient  
notice given. 
Ref: DRN48414222In response, Barclays said its not liable for the losses because Mr B unwittingly authorised 
the payments  made before 27 March 2017   and it could  not reasonably have done more to 
intervene or try to recoup  the money from the payee banks. Barclays  said that the 
transactions thereafter came as a result  of Mr Bs gross negligence, given that he 
deliberately gave away his card, PIN and security information to a third-party. Mr Bs failure 
to comply with his contractual obligations  meant  Barclays declined to refund the loss. 
Mr B brought the complaint to this service  and one of our investigators looked into it. Having 
considered everything, our investigator  didnt uphold the complaint on the grounds that, 
overall, he was unconvinced  Mr B had been  the victim of a scam. He didnt  think Barclays  
had acted unfairly in closing  Mr Bs current account.  And in light of the contested lending not 
originating from Barclays,  he explained  that Mr B would need to report  this to the respective  
payday lenders  in order to oppose liability for repayment. Barclays agreed with this. 
Mr B does not agree. Whats left in dispute is whether Barclays  should  reimburse  him for all 
of the payments, aside from the credits  into the account from the payday  loans. Because    
Mr B disagrees, the complaint has been  escalated to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain  why. 
the authorised  payments
Under the Payment  Services Regulations  2009 (PSRs), and in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of Mr Bs account,  Barclays had a duty to execute an authorised 
payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position is that liability  for an 
authorised payment rests  with the payer, even if they were  duped into giving  that 
authorisation or it was obtained  by third-party  fraud. 
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, any relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.  
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers  were  at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
 In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud.
Ref: DRN48414223Its not in dispute  that Mr B authorised all four of the payments  made before 27 March 2017. 
They were  sent by Mr Bs online banking to accounts in the UK. Its also not in question that 
these online  transactions were  authenticated by Mr B using his security credentials. 
Therefore, I conclude that all of these payments were authorised, for which  Mr B is liable  
unless there  is sufficient evidence that Barclays should fairly  and reasonably have done 
more to protect him, e.g. by failing to act on clear  triggers  of unusual or uncharacteristic 
activity for this particular  account/customer. 
It is common ground that Barclays fraud-detection systems were  triggered multiple times by 
the payments  that Mr B was trying to execute  on both 20 March 2017 and the following day. 
Barclays submits  that the measures it has in place to look out for unusual transactions 
elicited further  investigation, as the activity indicated to the bank that Mr B might be at risk of 
fraud (among other things). As a result, Barclays checked with Mr B before these payments 
were processed. It did so by either contacting  him by text message and/or a phone call. On 
at least one occasion, it also asked him to visit branch to produce  two forms of identification. 
In order for the payments  to go ahead as we know they did, Mr B needed to provide certain  
information before the payments would be released. According to Barclays  records,  Mr B 
provided reassurances each time its internal  fraud systems were flagged, by expressly 
pointing out that these  were genuine transactions that he had consented to. So, Mr B still 
wanted to proceed  with these payments, despite  warnings and questioning from Barclays.  
Even if its arguable  that Barclays could have probed deeper,  I am not persuaded this would 
have made  any difference in this particular  case. Mr B hadnt been given a cover story, so 
would simply have  told what he believed  to be true: that he was investing in stock  via 
someone that he personally  knew and trusted (at the time). Businessmen legitimately do this 
sort of thing all the time  and the circumstances didnt obviously fall within  well-known 
scams, such  as sending money to an unknown person youve  only met online, or being cold-
called by a stranger to invest in foreign schemes,  or getting caught up in an online dating 
scam, etc. It wouldnt be fair or reasonable for a bank to try to stop its customer investing his 
own money through a personal  friend or business  acquaintance (and one known well 
enough to later trust with a copy of his passport and all of his bank security  details).  If the 
bank had probed further, it seems likely that Mr B would  have reassured it that everything 
was legitimate, and he really wanted  to make  these payments. I doubt the scammers hold 
over him would have  been broken or the fraud  revealed by additional questioning. 
In the circumstances, Im persuaded Barclays went far enough to try and counter the risk of 
financial harm for the payments made on both 20 and 21 March  2017. I am also satisfied 
that Mr Bs failure to report the disputed transactions  in a timely  manner meant  the bank was 
not afforded  the opportunity to take the appropriate action and cancel the debit  card and/or 
prevent the subsequent disputed activity  from taking place. For the same  reason, I am 
convinced that Barclays could not reasonably have intervened  or done more to try to recoup 
the money from the payee banks. Accordingly,  I dont consider  it fair or reasonable to require 
Barclays to reimburse Mr B for the consequential  loss he says he suffered from these 
authorised payments.
the unauthorised  payments
I turn next to the transactions that occurred on Mr Bs account that he says he had no 
knowledge of. Mr B has provided  evidence that he believes  proves he was not in the country 
at the time these  transactions  took place.  So, unlike  the prior payments, Mr B denies  
authorising the transactions that took place  on and after 27 March 2017. 
Ref: DRN48414224The PSRs  say that Barclays can hold Mr B liable for disputed unauthorised transactions  
where hes been grossly  negligent in failing to comply with his obligations relating to his 
account. Among  other  things, those obligations  are that he must take all reasonable steps to 
keep safe his personalised security credentials.  They also state  that Mr B should use his 
card in accordance  with the terms and conditions  of the account. And looking at the account 
agreement, Barclays  has confirmed that it will not be held liable for the losses incurred  if 
Mr B deliberately or with gross negligence failed to keep his payment tools  secure.
Mr B has explained that his departure to Pakistan left him no choice but to entrust S with 
remedying the losses incurred. He also claims to have been  advised by someone who he 
thought was acting for Barclays not to check his online banking facility. So, it would seem 
that Mr B is suggesting that he took reasonable action; on the basis  that he was left with no 
other choice.  
However, I do not agree. Mr B has told us about  his acquaintance with S  that is, hed 
known him for over a year or so. As I have concluded above, it seems that he trusted S over 
the business venture and, when the bank sought  to intervene, was insistent that the 
authorised transactions should  proceed  in accordance with his payment mandate. But before 
these unauthorised transactions took place, it appears that Mr B was starting to entertain  
doubts about the supposed business  venture that S had introduced him to. He was on notice  
that something untoward mightve happened with the money hed sent already. 
For example, by his own admission, Mr B was, by this stage, still not in receipt of a 
corresponding invoice  or docket of sale for the online payments hed made.  He states that 
he was not given any corresponding information  for the mobile phone stock.  Crucially, based 
on what hes described, this considerable amount of money  was essentially paid on the 
promise of S delivering a healthy profit  which had not transpired.
There seems  no good reason why Mr B couldnt have contacted the bank directly,  without 
the involvement of S or anyone else for that matter. I can appreciate that he felt restricted  for 
time  but he nevertheless managed to contact  S about raising  his concerns. There is no 
plausible explanation as to why he could not contact  Barclays  instead.  In my view, Mr Bs not 
substantiated why he didnt contact Barclays directly, either  before he left for Pakistan,  or 
while he was out of the UK. Its well known that, like most banks,  Barclays  allows  both 
domestic and international queries over the phone,  in conjunction with consumers having the 
ability to look into their accounts online. So, I do not accept that Mr B had no other choice 
but to trust S  a person  whom he was now starting  to doubt  to sort things out for him. 
Mr B has freely  admitted  to deliberately disclosing  his accounts security  credentials to S, 
along with giving over the debit card itself.  In his submissions to this service and Barclays,  
hes provided a somewhat  conflicting  version of events. On the one hand,  hes previously 
admitted to giving all of his details  to S  including his online  banking login and password. 
But at other  times, hes confident that it was in fact during a call with a so-called Barclays 
agent that he divulged what was needed  to access and send payments from his online 
banking account.   
What we do know is that the disputed online payments sent in April 2017 were  facilitated by 
Mr Bs online  banking  facility, using his unique login  details. Which, like his card and PIN, 
were designed  to be secure  and only accessible to him. Mr B says that he thought he could 
trust S with personal information, such as a copy of his passport, and has previously told our 
service that he gave away all of his banking details   so, Im not persuaded that he didnt 
disclose his online banking  credentials too. 
Ref: DRN48414225On his own version of events, the most plausible explanation is that his online banking 
particulars were compromised at the same time that he gave S his other account information  
and payment tools. This is what most likely occurred on the balance of probabilities . Indeed, 
Mr B has not provided a more compelling  argument  to convince me otherwise. 
In terms of the cash withdrawals and the POS transactions, Barclays is able to track with 
reasonable accuracy that it was in fact Mr Bs legitimate  card that was used, and it was his 
genuine PIN that was entered for transactions that required this authentication.  That being  
so, Im persuaded  that it was the very card and security information that Mr B knowingly 
passed to S that was used. All of which leads me to believe  that Mr B intentionally gave 
away the necessary  account information and tools needed to go online and send the 
payments in April 2017, along with deliberately handing over the means to withdraw cash  
and perform POS transactions. To that end, the operative cause of Mr Bs loss looks to be 
that he gave the scammer(s) the ability to circumvent the security measures Barclays had in 
place to protect him and his account.  
When determining whether a payment service user such  as Mr B has compromised his 
security with intent or gross negligence,  the bar is a high one and each case needs to be 
assessed on its own facts  and merits. It is difficult for a bank  to prove that a consumer has 
demonstrated such extraordinary carelessness. In this case, I cannot ignore  that Mr B chose 
to reveal what were supposed  to be private  and confidential security features. These are key 
tools that Barclays had in place to safeguard the account; which  is precisely why the terms 
of agreement  and the PSRs  place such an emphasis on keeping them safe. 
In the circumstances, granting the means  to gain admittance  to an online banking  facility, 
coupled with intentionally supplying the card and PIN for the account, exhibits a breach of 
contract and/or duty of care which goes beyond ordinary negligence. Especially, as Mr B 
was on notice at the material  time that S had already  induced  him into sending payments 
which looked likely to have been  lost without  explanation. I am satisfied, therefore, that      
Mr Bs conduct breached  his obligations in respect of the security of his account and 
amounted to an intentional  and/or grossly  negligent  failure to keep  his payment tools secure. 
Given what that the PSRs  and account terms stipulate, I dont think  it would be fair and 
reasonable to hold Barclays liable  for these  payments. Considering  the recent history of the 
account and the nature of the unauthorised payments, and taking account all the 
circumstances (including inconsistencies in Mr Bs versions of events), I dont think  it would 
be fair to conclude that Barclays  needed  to intervene on grounds of unusual  or 
uncharacteristic activity.  And there is no persuasive evidence that it failed to exercise 
enough care and urgency in trying to recover the unauthorised payments from the payee  
banks before they were irretrievably removed  by the scammers. Sadly, scammers are often 
quick to remove their ill-gotten gains  from the receiving account(s) precisely to avoid such  
trace and recovery.
Finally, I consider whether Barclays unfairly  closed Mr Bs account.  Under  the contract 
terms, Barclays made it clear that it was permitted to end the agreement immediately if it 
reasonably believed that Mr B seriously  or persistently broke  any term of the agreement.  The 
contract goes on to say that there are certain  situations where  this immediate closure  (or 
restricted notice) will be implemented. Including, if the bank had reasonable grounds for 
thinking that Mr B had inappropriately  let someone else use his account. 
Ref: DRN48414226In light of the reasons Ive given above,  I have to conclude that Mr B was fundamentally in 
breach of contract.  It follows that I do not find it unfair or unreasonable  for Barclays to have 
immediately closed this account  it did so in keeping with the contractual  terms. For 
completeness, this was not a basic bank account (which are governed  by special rules to 
prevent vulnerable consumers being excluded from essential banking services unless there 
are extreme  circumstances). 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 March  2021.
Matthew Belcher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4841422