K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about the advice he was given by Anthony Feeney Financial Services  
(AFFS) to transfer from his existing self-invested personal pension  (SIPP) into a new SIPP 
and invest in Dolphin  Capital.
background
I issued a provisional decision in April 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part of 
this final decision.  In that decision, I explained  that I intended to uphold  Mr Fs complaint.
AFFS havent responded to the provisional  decision. Mr F has told us he accepts my 
findings. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, Ive not received any further submissions from either party  to persuade  me to alter 
the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision. It therefore remains my opinion that the 
complaint should  be upheld,  for the reasons  Ive explained previously.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr F should be put as closely as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr F would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Fs circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
what should  AFFS do?
To compensate Mr F fairly, AFFS must:
Compare the performance of Mr Fs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
AFFS should add interest  as set out below.  
If there is a loss, AFFS should  pay into Mr Fs pension  plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If AFFS is unable to pay the total amount  into Mr Fs pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  
Ref: DRN41319012provided a taxable  income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Fs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr F would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr F £200 for the trouble and upset hes been caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If AFFS deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr F how much  has been  taken off. AFFS should give Mr F a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. AFFS should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If AFFS is unable to purchase the investment,  the actual value should  be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose  of calculation. AFFS may require that Mr F provides an undertaking to pay 
AFFS any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension  
plan. AFFS will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Ref: DRN41319013Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if AFFS totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr F wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept some  investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Fs circumstances  and risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Anthony  Feeney Financial Services  should pay 
the amount calculated  as set out above.
Anthony Feeney Financial Services should provide  details of its calculation to Mr F in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41319014COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr F complains about the advice he was given by Anthony  Feeney Financial Services (AFFS) to 
transfer from his existing  self-invested personal  pension (SIPP) into a new SIPP and invest in Dolphin  
Capital.
background
I understand that Mr F was referred to AFFS  by a third party  Return on Capital  Group (ROC) - in 
December 2013. Mr F had an existing SIPP with a transfer value  of just under £29,000.  Hed taken 
the tax free cash sum from the SIPP when it was set up. Mr F was advised to transfer to a different  
SIPP provider, and invest £24,500 in Dolphin Capital - an unregulated investment.  
Mr F complained to AFFS in August 2016 through his representative. He said the advice he was given 
hadnt followed the rules and was unsuitable. He shouldnt have been advised  to transfer and invest  in 
a high risk and unregulated investment. 
AFFS didnt  uphold  the complaint. In brief,  it said that it had advised Mr F not to invest in Dolphin  
Capital, but he chose to go ahead with the investment  despite  this. As such, AFFS wasnt responsible 
for any detriment he has suffered. Mr F remained dissatisfied  and referred his complaint  to us.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  succeed. He said that under the regulators rules, AFFS 
should have considered  whether the transfer of Mr Fs pension so as to invest in Dolphin  Capital was 
suitable. AFFS  hadnt properly assessed Mr Fs appetite  for risk, and shouldnt have assumed  he 
would accept the risk posed by the investment. As Mr F shouldnt have been advised  to transfer his 
pension, he should be compensated by comparing his current position with that assuming hed 
retained his original SIPP.  
AFFS appointed a representative to act on its behalf. But as no substantive response has been 
received to the adjudicators  view, the matter has been passed to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I appreciate Mr F was introduced to the concept of investing in Dolphin  Capital by ROC before he was 
referred to AFFS. But ROC wasnt authorised to give financial advice. Also, the SIPP application  form 
showed that Mr F had been advised by AFFS  on both the transfer and the chosen investment. As 
such, Im satisfied AFFS is responsible for the advice Mr F was given. 
AFFS completed a fact find for Mr F in October  2013,  in which it recorded  his personal circumstances. 
However, this contains little detail beyond his state  of health, marital status and ages of his children. 
For instance, it didnt include his occupation,  income  and outgoings or any investments or savings. 
The fact find set out a number of choices under a section headed risk and reward  with five levels of 
risk, increasing from very cautious to speculative. Mr F ticked  the fourth definition for 
adventurous. This was explained as follows:
You prefer to invest in more  specialised  stock-market linked investments, in return  for the potential 
for increased capital growth. Again, investment returns will fluctuate  according  to market  conditions, 
however, these fluctuations will be more pronounced.
Ref: DRN41319015Mr F also ticked the section:
I am an infrequent investor. However,  I have a reasonable working knowledge  and understanding of 
investment markets and the relationship between risk and reward of those  markets.
Its not clear how Mr Fs attitude to risk was assessed.  He seems to have had limited knowledge of 
investments, nor to have invested in high risk products  previously.  Overall, I think  its unlikely that he 
truly had an adventurous attitude to risk. Further,  while Mr F was relatively young, hed so far built 
up a fairly small  pension fund. Im not convinced he should have been advised to put this at significant  
risk. And while Mr F had time to increase  his pension provision, Ive not seen evidence  AFFS 
discussed this aspect  of his retirement planning. 
Mr F also confirmed his priorities. The two most important  were  for a structured portfolio reflecting  his 
attitude to risk and other  circumstances, and the ability to take his benefits  immediately. But this latter  
comment seems  to contradict what Mr F said earlier  in the fact find that he doubted hed be able to 
retire before age 65, which was many  years in the future. 
In a section  which asked if Mr F was intending  to invest in an unregulated or alternative investment, 
Mr F has answered Dolphin Capital. He said he was interested in a fixed  return  on the minimal 
pension pot he had as opposed to volatile  stocks  and shares. 
AFFS then issued its financial planning report. It said Mr F liked the control a SIPP would give in 
allowing him to take a more active role in choosing what he deemed were suitable investments rather  
than the traditional funds in his existing  plan. 
The report noted that Mr F had an adventurous attitude to risk. In relation to investment strategy, the 
report said Mr F had sought advice from AFFS  with the intention of investing in a loan note, notably 
Dolphin Capital. It said Mr F hadnt sought advice  about the suitability of such an investment.  
But the report  also went on to consider Dolphin Capital, and said that AFFS had done some  due 
diligence to establish its merits  or disadvantages.  It listed some of the risks involved, such as 
investing in a single undertaking as a large part of Mr Fs pension brings  considerable risk. 
This section of the report concluded by saying  in bold type  that Mr Fs fund shouldnt be placed 
fund in one asset class. Instead,  it should form part of a diversified portfolio  across a number  of asset 
classes. But the report made no recommendation of alternative investments that could be used.  
In considering this complaint, Im mindful that the FCA has issued alerts in respect of advising on 
pension transfers with a view to investing pension  monies into unregulated products through a SIPP. 
One was published on 18 January  2013 and a further one published on 28 April 2014. These alerts 
didnt make any changes to the regulations.  They simply  re-stated  the principles  that already applied, 
and which were  in place in 2013 when the advice  was given.
The regulator  made  its position  clear  when it said the following in the alert issued in 2013:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires  consideration of the other 
investments held by the customer  or, when  advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for 
investment in other products (such as SIPPs  and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of 
the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected  underlying investments  in unregulated 
schemes. It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a customer  seeks advice on a 
pension transfer in implementing  a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must  
take account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating.
I dont think it was possible for AFFS  to give advice about  the suitability of a SIPP without also 
considering how Mr F planned to invest. Its clear AFFS knew about Mr Fs intention  to invest in 
Dolphin Capital from the outset.
Ref: DRN41319016Ive seen a copy of a meeting note, apparently made by the AFFS adviser.  This is undated, and its 
not clear when it was made. But the note refers to discussing the report, which  indicates it was made 
after this had been received  by Mr F. The note says Mr F is happy with the contents  and understood 
the risks associated with Dolphin Capital and was happy to proceed. 
On the whole,  Im not convinced I can place much weight  on this document. I dont think it provides 
sufficient evidence  that Mr F was fully aware  of the risks involved in investing in Dolphin  Capital. 
Dolphin Capital was an unregulated investment. It was a German-based company which  invested in 
the conversion and refurbishment  of listed buildings (in Germany) for residential  use. This was a very 
specialised and non-mainstream type of investment,  which I think presented a high degree of risk. 
AFFS should have advised  Mr F that such an investment wasnt  suitable for him.  
But as well as the investment being unsuitable, I dont think transferring  Mr Fs pension into a new 
SIPP was in itself suitable. The transfer was required  in order  to facilitate the further investment in 
Dolphin Capital. But I think  there are further reasons why Mr F should have been advised to remain 
with his existing SIPP provider. 
AFFSs report included a comparison between the existing SIPP and the new provider showing what 
the pension funds could  be at age 65. But these used different rates of growth for the two plans. For 
the existing SIPP, they were  0.5%, 1.5% and 2.5%. But for the new plan, the growth rates were 5%, 
7% and 9%. Unsurprisingly, these showed the new plan with much larger pension  funds. But I dont 
think this gave  Mr F a fair indication of what he may receive. 
Also, Mr F had indicated in the fact find that he was not very happy with the level of charges imposed  
by his current pension  scheme.  But the new scheme AFFS recommended had higher charges  than 
his existing arrangement. 
In the fact find Mr F expressed unhappiness with the investment  performance of his current scheme. 
But according  to the financial planning  report,  Mr Fs existing SIPP  was invested in a cash  fund. This 
would usually only be intended as a short-term  measure, and would  be unlikely to yield much growth. 
At that time, interest rates  were very low. So I dont think this was sufficient  reason for transferring to 
a different provider. 
Further, Mr F said he wasnt very sure his current pension was being  held with a financially-secure  
provider. But its not clear  why he would have believed this. Theres no evidence  the provider was in 
any financial  difficulty, and in fact is still operating  as a SIPP provider.  
On the whole,  the reasons  given by Mr F in the fact find for apparently being dissatisfied with his 
existing SIPP dont have  any real substance, and this should have been addressed by AFFS when 
giving advice. Instead, it seems AFFS may have used these concerns, in part anyway, as justification 
for recommending  the transfer. 
I think  that if AFFS had advised Mr F not to proceed with the transfer, and instead suggested  an 
investment strategy within  his existing  SIPP, its likely hed have accepted this. 
Ive considered how Mr F should be compensated for the unsuitable advice  he received. I note the 
adjudicator proposed that Mr Fs loss should be calculated by comparing the current value of Mr Fs 
SIPP with the current value of his previous  SIPP,  had it not been transferred. But on balance Im not 
convinced this is appropriate. As noted above,  it appears Mr Fs SIPP was held in a cash fund at the 
time of the transfer. I dont think its likely he would  have remained in the cash  fund. Instead, with 
suitable advice, Mr F should have been advised  to invest his pension in a way that allowed him to 
achieve his aim of investment growth. Ive therefore set out below how I think compensation  should 
be calculated. 
Ref: DRN41319017fair compensation
My aim is that Mr F should be put as closely as possible  into the position he would probably now be in 
if he had been given suitable  advice.  
I think  Mr F would have  invested differently.  Its not possible to say precisely what  he would  have 
done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below  is fair and reasonable given Mr Fs circumstances 
and objectives when he invested.
 
what should AFFS do?
 
To compensate Mr F fairly, AFFS must:
Compare the performance  of Mr Fs investment with that of the benchmark shown. If the fair 
value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
 
AFFS should add interest as set out below.
If there  is a loss, AFFS should  pay into Mr Fs pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount  paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if 
it would conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If AFFS is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Fs pension plan,  it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the compensation should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Fs actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr F is likely to be a basic  rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would  equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr F would have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay Mr F £200 for the trouble and upset  hes been caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If AFFS  deducts income tax from the interest,  it 
should tell Mr F how much has been taken off. AFFS  should give Mr F a tax deduction certificate if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK Private 
Investors  Income 
Total Return 
Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified  
of acceptance)
Ref: DRN41319018actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value  of the investment. This is complicated where  an investment 
is illiquid (meaning  it could not be readily sold on the open  market) as in this case. So, the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. AFFS  should take ownership  of the 
illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation  and the balance paid as I set out above.
If AFFS is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculation. AFFS  may require that Mr F provides an undertaking  to pay AFFS any amount 
he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow  for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred  on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. AFFS will need to meet 
any costs  in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr F paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation 
from that point  on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep calculations  simpler, Ill 
accept if AFFS  totals all those payments  and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting  
periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr F wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some  investment risk.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.  
Although it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the index is close 
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable  measure  of comparison  given Mr Fs 
circumstances and risk attitude. 
my provisional  decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that Anthony  Feeney Financial Services should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above. 
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4131901