K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  AIB Group  (UK) Plc, trading as First Trust Bank (First Trust) hasnt 
refunded them for a transaction they say they didnt make.
background
In March 2018 an online payment was made from the business  account Mr and Mrs M hold 
with First Trust. The payment was sent to a third party  account  belonging to someone they 
say they dont know and who they believe to be a fraudster.
Mr and Mrs M say the transaction came to light several months after it took place when their 
bookkeeper asked  for the invoice in relation to it. A relative, who they say operates the 
account on their behalf, then contacted  First Trust. Mr and Mrs M stress  this person didnt 
make the transaction because they were in another country on business at the time.
First Trust investigated the transaction and refused to refund it. When Mr and Mrs M 
complained, it said codes from their code  card had been used to set up the payment and 
then to release  the funds. This card is unique to Mr and Mrs Ms account and the codes on it 
can only be used once.  Mr and Mrs M say their card was locked in their safe at the time of 
the transaction. 
First Trust said the funds  were no longer in the third party account they were sent to. It also 
indicated this account was associated with the receipt of funds obtained through  fraud.
First Trust gave notice to close  Mr and Mrs Ms account. It said Mr and Mrs M were in 
breach of their account terms by allowing their relative  to access the account.
Unhappy with First Trusts response, Mr and Mrs M brought  their complaint to us. An 
investigator at our service  looked  at their complaint  and decided  not to uphold it. In 
summary, they found:
-First Trusts records  show  the payment was set up using an access code on the code 
card for Mr and Mrs Ms account.  Another code from the card had then been used to 
release the funds.  This was enough to show the payment was authenticated,  which  is 
something First Trust needed to show under the relevant  payment service  
regulations.
-Mr and Mrs M likely  consented to the payment. The person who made the 
transaction wouldve had to know their account online registration number, pin and 
have had access to their code card. Mr and Mrs M hadnt provided a plausible 
explanation of how their security  information couldve been compromised.
-It was more likely Mr and Mrs M or someone with their permission authorised  the 
payment thinking  they were purchasing a good  or a service.  The bank who holds the 
account for the third party had said the account  was associated with selling goods or 
services and not providing them.
-Mr and Mrs Ms relative  may have  been out of the country when  the transaction took 
place but this didnt mean it still wasnt him or indeed them  who made the payment. 
Ref: DRN41715052Mr and Mrs M did not agree. They say neither  our service nor First Trust has shown the third 
party account holder didnt supply  fraudulent  goods  or services. 
The complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons.
what I need to consider
For First Trust not to refund the transaction Id need  to think  Mr and Mrs M authorised it. In 
deciding this I first needed to consider  whether the payment was authenticated  so were  the 
security measures followed  that First Trust has in place to identify their customers? This is 
for First Trust to show. 
First Trust has provided online account  logs which show what  actions took place when the 
transaction was made. These show access  codes were used to make the payment. First 
Trust says these codes  are from the code card associated with Mr and Mrs Ms account. 
They are unique to Mr and Mrs M and can only be used once. So I think the payment was 
authenticated.
Because of this I now need to consider whether I think Mr and Mrs M or someone with their 
permission made the transaction.
I cant know for certain what happened  when the transaction was made. But when facts  are 
unclear I need  to decide what I think is more likely than not to have happened.  And based on 
everything thats been said and the evidence available to me, I think its more  likely than not 
that Mr and Mrs M made the payment or someone  else did with their permission. Ill explain 
why:
-I dont think an unknown third party couldve performed the transaction. Whoever did 
it wouldve had to have known Mr and Mrs Ms online security information  and had 
access to the code card associated  with the account. Mr and Mrs M say only them 
and their relative have  access to the safe where the card is kept. So I cant  see how 
the codes on the card couldve  been  obtained  by anyone else.
-I think the payment was made to purchase a good or service. The third party bank 
has said the recipients account is associated with selling goods and services and 
then not providing them. The transaction payment reference states  online  goods. 
And the amount  of the transaction is specific and more akin to the cost of a good or 
service. 
-There werent any further attempts to make payments from Mr and Mrs Ms account. 
Had a fraudster gained access to their online account and code  card, I think theyd  
have tried to transfer further money out, particularly as they wouldve  seen  the 
account had a high balance, which they could exploit.
Ref: DRN41715053-Mr and Mrs Ms relative  may have  been in another country at the time of the 
transaction. The IP address  for the device used to make the transaction  does 
indicate the payment was made in the United  Kingdom. But IP addresses are not 
definitive proof of someones location. And this doesnt show Mr or Mrs M didnt 
make the payment  themselves.
I understand Mr and Mrs M believe the owner  of the account to which the payment was 
made is involved in fraud.  I have  no reason  to doubt this. But this doesnt mean First Trust 
should refund them  the money that went to that persons account. In terms of First Trusts 
liability, they are not responsible for payments made  by Mr and Mrs M or someone  acting 
with their permission even if what was being  paid for wasnt supplied.
my final decision
Ive decided to not uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  for the reasons Ive explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 October  2019.
Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4171505