K821x#15complaint
Ms M is complaining on behalf of a company,  J Ltd, that Northern Bank Limited (trading  as 
Danske Bank) wont refund a transaction she didnt  authorise. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont  repeat them  again  
here. Instead Ill recap the key points  and focus  on giving the reasons  for my decision:  
Ms M received a couple  of text messages on 20 April 2017  asking  whether  she 
recognised certain transactions  and to call a number if she didnt. 
She did this and got through  to someone purporting  to be from Barclays Bank  they 
said they dealt  with fraud on Northern Banks  behalf.  They  told her that her account 
was at risk and theyd  need to block everything. As part of that, they asked her for 
various pieces of her personal information. 
Between 21:43 and 22:03 that same day, three  transactions left the account  
totalling £27,200. £15,850 was later returned to the account by the receiving bank. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2009 (which  were in force  at the time), 
Ms M isnt liable for payments she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross 
negligence or intent to comply with the terms of the account or keep her personalised 
security details safe.
Its agreed Ms M didnt authorise the transactions, because  she didnt complete the 
agreed steps to make  the payments. Instead,  it seems the fraudster logged on and 
made payments  using  information he got from Ms M by falsely saying her account 
was at risk. 
I dont think Ms M failed with intent  to keep her details  safe  she genuinely believed 
what she was doing was to protect her account.  
Im also not satisfied Ms M failed with gross  negligence. Ive considered  that she had 
already received a text message that day about  an unusual transaction.  So I can 
understand that when she received another, mentioning a bigger amount of £2,000, 
she was concerned enough  to call the number. 
The bank she got through to said they dealt  with fraud for Northern Bank and that 
her account wasnt safe  so they needed to protect and block  everything.  Lots of 
banks are genuinely connected in various ways  with some doing  certain  activities  
on behalf of others. Indeed, Danske Bank is connected to Northern Bank. With that in 
mind, I can see how Ms M accepted the explanation she was given. Indeed,  I dont 
think that many ordinary consumers would have  a thorough knowledge of their 
banks commercial connections to be able to confidently  challenge  this.  
Northern Bank question why Ms M didnt do more to verify who she was talking to. 
Ive reflected on the panic and worry of the situation, and how, when most people  
make outbound calls,  they dont usually question the identity  of who they get through 
to. Ive also thought  about the sophistication  of the scam. The fraudster turned this 
situation on its head  by pretending to be suspicious  and going to lengths to check  
they were talking to the right person. In doing so, they put pressure on Ms M, and 
turned the focus away from themselves. 
Ref: DRN45347162Ive considered the information Ms M wouldve shared. Ive not seen J Ltds  internet 
banking records to understand  how the fraudster logged  on (and whether they reset  
any of its information). In any event,  I note theres  nothing  obvious in the information 
needed to log on that shouldve alerted Ms M that it wasnt to genuinely  protect her 
account  and it was instead to make payments. Most consumers are obviously not 
experts in fraud prevention (and arguably  were  even  less so back in 2017)  and 
theyre unlikely to have come  across this situation with their genuine bank enough  
times to know exactly how it works  and, therefore, question what theyre being asked 
for. In this context,  particularly in the anxious situation Ms M was in, I can see how 
she was cleverly duped  and misdirected into sharing information, believing  it was 
necessary to protect her account.  
I realise Northern Bank  wrote  to J Ltd with warnings about fraud. But the last letter  
was over a year before this happened, so I understand why Ms M didnt recall them  
in the heat of the moment. Its easy to criticise with the benefit of hindsight,  but we 
have to examine  this looking at all the circumstances Ms M found herself  in.
On this basis, I dont think Ms Ms actions fell so far below what a reasonable person 
wouldve done that it amounts to gross negligence. So I conclude that J Ltd isnt 
liable for the transactions  and Northern Bank  need to put things right. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold J Ltds complaint and I order Northern  Bank 
Limited to:
Pay J Ltd the total of the unauthorised transactions, less any amount already 
returned. Northern  Bank may deduct  £50 from this amount, as per the account terms 
and conditions and the Payment Services Regulations 2009. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully  deductible).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask J Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2020.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4534716