K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide  Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.  
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out with an unsecured  personal 
loan in 1998 and 1999. The latter  loan paid off the balance of the preceding loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr W didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. I explain why below.
I have seen the loan agreements for the sales. The credit agreements  describe the PPI as, 
Optional Credit Insurance.  The agreements explain  the cost of the PPI and show  how that 
adds to the total monthly payment. So, I think its more likely that PPI was presented  as 
optional and Mr W chose to take it on each occasion and thats how it came  to be applied to 
his loan accounts, even if he does not remember that now.  
Nationwide says the policies were sold without  a formal recommendation. Ive been  shown  
no documentary evidence  that suggests  that the policies were sold on an advised basis. So, 
Nationwide had to give Mr W clear enough  information about the policy  so he could decide if 
he wanted to buy them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I dont think better  information  would have stopped Mr W from buying  
the policies. I explain  why I say that below. 
Mr W was eligible for the policies. And there  are things that sometimes  arent covered by 
policies like these, or for which the benefit might  be more difficult to get than may have been 
expected, but it seems  that Mr W wouldnt have been affected by those things. 
And I think that Mr W had, most likely,  a need for the cover the policies could provide. I say 
that as Mr W told us he had good sick pay initially, but that it dropped significantly after six 
months, such that he may have had to rely on his family for support. But these policies could 
have paid out for up to a year if Mr W lost his job, and for the duration of the loan if he was 
too ill to work through sickness  or accident.  So, having considered  this, I think that Mr W 
could have found the policies useful.
The policies appear to have been flexible in that Mr W may have got back a pro rata refund 
of the PPI premium  if he cancelled a policy early. So I dont think this meant the policies 
werent right for him. 
Ref: DRN40422692And whilst I could understand  it if Mr W thought now that the policies  were  expensive, I think  
the costs were set out clearly on the agreements and I havent  seen anything to make  me 
think the policies  were unaffordable to Mr W or that he had a need to keep costs down. And 
given how long the policies could have paid out for, most likely, if Mr W made a successful 
claim, he could have got back  quite a bit more  than he paid for them. So I dont think  that in 
this case the cost made the policies unsuitable for Mr W.
So, for the reasons given above,  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put 
Mr W off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint about Nationwide  Building Society.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4042269