K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide  Building Society  lost a payment that had been transferred to 
him from an account with another bank.  
background
Mr Hs representative said a substantial  payment  had been transferred to Mr Hs Nationwide  
account from his late mothers  estate in April 2018.  Nationwide failed to credit the money to 
his account. The other bank  said the money  was sent via its agent bank and it hadnt had the 
funds returned.
Our investigator could  see there appeared to be an error in the reference number the other 
bank had used  so she concluded  that Nationwide hadnt made  any error. But she thought it 
shouldve done  more to help Mr H. She said it should have offered to contact the other bank 
instead of telling him to do it himself. So she thought it should pay him £250 compensation 
as an apology.
Nationwide didnt agree.  It said it tried to help Mr H at the beginning by suggesting  he 
contact the sending bank. It refers to its final response and said it details exactly what Mr 
H must  do in order to locate the transfer and that he needed to set up a forward trace on the 
payment. It said it couldnt contact  the other bank for security reasons. And it wasnt  
responsible for the original error.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H went into Nationwide on 8 May 2018  and 25 June 2018 to try and find out what had 
happened to the transfer. Nationwide  isnt able to tell us what  happened  on those occasions 
and it couldnt  provide  any phone  recordings from the branch on those  dates. Mr Hs 
representative made a formal complaint  on 23 July 2018. And Nationwide provided us with a 
phone recording made on 7 August 2018  in which  it confirmed that a forward  trace  was 
needed to trace the missing payment.
Looking at that timeline it seems to me that Nationwide didnt do enough  to help Mr H trace 
his missing money. He went  to his local branch in May and June to try and find where  this 
payment had gone. Nationwide  says it did all it could to help Mr H. But its not able to say 
what information it gave  Mr H on those  occasions and its not able to trace  any phone calls 
made from the branch at that time.  Mr H, through his representative, says that Nationwide  
told him each time he went into the branch it hadnt  received  the transfer. 
In its response to our investigators opinion Nationwide  refers  to a telephone  call in August 
2018 and its Final  Response but that was three months after Mr H first alerted it to the 
missing money and it was after Mr Hs representative had made an official  complaint. 
 
Ref: DRN46183732This was a substantial payment made to Mr H from his late mothers estate and yet, until Mr 
Hs representative made a formal  complaint,  Nationwide cant show us it did anything more 
than confirm to him the payment hadnt been received. At what  must have been an already 
stressful time for Mr H I think Nationwide caused  more upset by not helping  further.  So I 
agree with the investigator that £250  compensation is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint.
To put matters right Nationwide Building  Society must pay Mr H £250  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4618373