K821x#15complaint
Mrs L says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs L took out in 2001.  It was added  to her 
account during  a phone call, some time after taking out the card itself.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case. 
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Mrs L, so it didnt have to check it was right for her. But 
it did have to give Mrs L information about the PPI that was clear, fair, and not misleading, 
so she could decide for herself whether it was right for her.
This policy excluded  claims resulting from a medical  condition  the customer already knew  
about or recently got advice or treatment for before the policy  started. Mrs L had such  a 
condition, which wouldnt have been covered. But I havent seen sufficient evidence to show  
that this exclusion  wouldve  been  discussed  during  the sale.
I think the exclusion wouldve mattered  to Mrs L. From what shes  told us, she was 
hospitalised a number of times for her condition and had to have several  operations for it in 
the years  before the sale.  It caused  her to take time off work and she had to take medication. 
This condition wouldve  been ongoing,  and Mrs L said that around the sale it caused  her a 
lot of pain and she had to be very careful,  which I think wouldve been a concern in her line 
of work.
So I think Mrs Ls condition wouldve mattered to her around the time of the sale.  Indeed,  
she may have considered  it to be the most likely one to cause her to claim, given how much 
it had already affected her. But under the policys terms, she couldnt claim for any time off 
resulting from her condition. So she couldnt have claimed on the policy for everything she 
might have expected  to be able to.
I cant see that FICL gave  Mrs L clear  enough information about the exclusion for pre-
existing medical conditions at the sale. If it had done, then I think  its most likely Mrs L would 
not have bought the policy. So I think this PPI policy has been  mis-sold.
Ref: DRN44842572putting things right
FICL should put Mrs L in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs L would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs L owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. Similarly, if Mrs L has already received a 
refund of the commission part of this PPI policy, then FICL can take that off of what  it 
owes her, so that she doesnt receive  a refund of the same  thing  twice.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs L would  have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% simple  a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs L would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs L paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs L 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should again  be 8% 
simple a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs L what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4484257