K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. Mr W says Bank  of Scotland plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr W says that he wasnt  aware that the PPI was optional.  But think BoS made it clear  
that Mr W didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember  this as it was 15 years ago.
I say this because  BoS has provided  a copy of Mr Ws credit agreement   on this I can 
see the wording You have requested:  Repayments  Cover. Mr W has then signed  this 
paperwork  agreeing to the information  on it. 
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said - but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr W paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr W back  some of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
I understand BoS has already paid this to Mr W.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.  
Claire Pugh
Ref: DRN41949352ombudsman
Ref: DRN4194935