K821x#15complaint
Mrs Es complaint concerns delays which she says resulted  in her losing a favourable 
transfer value  from her former occupational  pension  scheme (OPS). She says St. Jamess 
Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) were responsible for that.
background
A brief summary of the circumstances  leading to this complaint and my initial  conclusions,  
were set out in my provisional decision. A copy of my provisional decision,  (with my intended  
outcome removed),  is attached and forms part of this final decision.
In short,  Mrs E approached SJP on 24 January  2017 seeking advice about whether to 
transfer her defined benefit  (DB) pension from her OPS to a personal  pension with SJP.  
Mrs E received the Cash  Equivalent Transfer  Value (CETV) from her OPS of £452,203, on 
6 January 2017. This quote was due to expire  three months later on 6 April 2017. Mrs E met 
with the SJP adviser (the adviser) on 1 February  2017 and the advice  process began. One 
of her main objectives was to retire early  at the time of the advice she was 45 years old.
 
Ultimately, in late June 2017,  the adviser told Mrs E that SJP had changed the goal  posts, 
with the result it was no longer willing to accept  DB transfers for people  who were  so far 
away from retirement age. And in November 2017,  Mrs E complained to SJP saying its 
handling of her case led to her losing out on the most favourable CETV. She says the total 
loss was £75,105  this was the difference between  the CETV dated 6 January 2017 of 
£452,203 and the CETV she eventually proceeded with of £377,098. This latter  CETV  was 
obtained from her OPS on 17 August 2017. Mrs E had instructed  a new adviser to deal with 
the eventual transfer.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold Mrs Es complaint. I 
invited both parties to provide further  comments.  SJP didnt have anything further to add. 
Mrs E made a number  of comments  and provided further supporting evidence,  which  I thank 
her for. In summary, Mrs E said in response to my provisional decision:
The ombudsman has not understood or explored  other  significant  reasons for the 
delay such as the implications of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) publication 
dated 24 January  2017.
The ombudsman has not been  able to conclude without doubt as to whether the firm 
were responsible for the delays.
The ombudsman concluded this was a case of poor customer service, when it should 
be considered  a complaint that relates to FCA regulations.
The outcome  was inconsistent with similar  complaints dealt with by our service.
The impact of the adviser  not being  trained  on SJPs Voyant system, wasnt taken 
into account.
The significance of the adviser not having the correct systems in place to deal with 
the risks of CETV  deadline being missed, was not properly considered.
The ombudsman has spent a significant amount of time on trying to demonstrate  a 
fictitious timeline, whilst making assumptions  regarding expectations being managed.
The ombudsman focused entirely on trying to prove, or disprove, whether the adviser 
guaranteed that the CETV date would be met.
The ombudsman didnt acknowledge that the adviser professionally  neglected 
Mrs E after the CETV date passed   in particular, there were delays in telling her 
about SJPs change in policy.
Ref: DRN41043362Mrs E has obtained a valuation from the former  scheme,  which shows  she could 
have achieved a transfer value of £393,000  as of 7 April 2017.
Mrs E also added that SJPs comments in some internal emails and in emails to our service, 
are factually incorrect and unprofessional. Mrs E said that with these further submissions 
and some points made more recently, she hopes  to leave me in no doubt that SJP are 
entirely accountable for delay which caused  her to miss out on a more favourable CETV. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im upholding the 
complaint in part based on the further  information  I received in response to my provisional  
decision. Ill explain why.
 
Firstly, Im sorry to hear of Mrs Es continuing  ill health. I appreciate  this has been a stressful  
time for her. Before I address Mrs Es further  key points, as noted previously, whilst  I 
appreciate how strongly she feels about this complaint, it isnt my role to address  all the 
questions and issues shes  raised. My role is to concentrate on the issues directly relevant to 
the outcome of her case. And to make  a decision based on what  I think are the central 
issues.
The ombudsman has not understood or explored  other significant  reasons for the delay  such  
as the implications of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) publication dated 24 January 
2017
As set out in my provisional  and this final decision, I look at all the evidence and arguments 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. This involves  not 
only looking  at what both parties have said but taking into other  evidence  such  as the 
regulatory framework under which SJP operates. This of course  will include FCA rules and 
guidance.
Mrs E specifically points to an FCA publication  dated 24 January 2017. I should,  however, 
point out this publication didnt represent new rules being introduced by the FCA but was a 
reinforcement of existing rules. Specifically, she quoted the section COBS 19.1.2R(1) which 
was actually unchanged between June 2015 and April 2018. In summary, this says when 
advising on DB transfers the adviser should make a comparison between the benefits likely  
(on reasonable assumption) to be paid under a DB scheme. From  the information  Ive seen, 
this is what SJP were seeking to do and were instructed to do by Mrs E. The issue in dispute  
is that this process  took too long and caused  Mrs E to miss out on the more  favourable  
CETV. This is what I addressed in my provisional decision and now in my final decision.
The ombudsman has not been able to conclude without doubt as to whether the firm were  
responsible for the delays
My conclusion in my provisional  decision was that SJP were  not responsible for any 
unreasonable delays which led to Mrs E missing out on the more favourable CETV dated 
6 January 2017. Mrs E says because I used  the words I dont think [the business caused  
delays], this meant a conclusion hadnt been reached. For the removal of doubt, my finding 
for the reasons Ive set out in my provisional decision, is that, on a balance of probabilities,  
SJP were not responsible for delays which resulted in Mrs E missing out on that CETV.
Ref: DRN41043363The ombudsman concluded this was a case of poor customer service, when it should be 
considered a complaint that relates  to FCA regulations
Whilst the issue did centre on whether Mrs E was provided with the service she was 
expecting, as Ive noted  above, Ive taken into account the regulations  and rules that apply to 
these types of transfers along with the submissions provided by both parties.
The outcome was inconsistent with similar  complaints dealt with by our service
Mrs E says that we, as a service, need  to be consistent in our approach to similar 
complaints. I agree  with this. But Im also mindful  that our service, which  is an informal  
resolution service, also decides  complaints on an individual basis having  regard to the 
particular circumstances  of the case.  
With that in mind Ive taken note of the case study Mrs E points to, which  was issued in one 
of our publications. Whilst I cannot  comment on the circumstances of that case, the key 
issue is that by the time Mrs E approached SJP for advice, over two weeks  had passed 
since she received  the CETV. A meeting  was then arranged for 1 February 2017 with its 
adviser, by which  time three weeks had passed. 
So whereas  her subsequent adviser had the benefit  of the full three-month  period to give the 
advice and action  the transfer, SJP had just over two months to provide the advice and 
action the transfer.  And as I noted  in my provisional decision, if SJP had worked  to the same  
timescales as the subsequent adviser,  SJP still would have missed the CETV deadline. I 
consider this to be in line with our approach that weve taken in other similar cases  taking 
into account the circumstances of the individual case.
I also note Mrs Es comments  about the new adviser and the difficulties  faced by them  in 
progressing matters due to the adviser  working remotely,  the need  to arrange meetings 
which her and her husband could both attend and accommodating their busy  schedules.  But 
the fact remains that the new adviser  had the benefit of the full three  months to consider  the 
new CETV and it still took nearly all that time (eleven weeks)  to complete the process.
The adviser not being trained on SJPs  Voyant  system,  wasnt  taken into account
This matter was addressed in my provisional decision where I said:  A business is entitled  to 
introduce new processes  and they might require  training, but Ive set out above [in my 
provisional decision] that even if this had been  done in a way that caused no delay  at that 
particular point, its still unlikely the CETV deadline  would have been met.
I need to be clear here that the Voyant system  was not the system used to carry out the 
transfer analysis  required under COBS  19.1.2R.  SJP seems to have already had established 
processes for working out this so-called critical yield.  The Voyant system was something 
SJP had introduced  to work out Mrs Es income  requirements during retirement  so-called 
cash flow modelling.  This wasnt mandated by a specific  FCA rule, but rather is something 
that SJP was introducing to better ensure the suitability of its advice.
The significance of the adviser not having the correct systems in place to deal with the risks 
of CETV deadline being missed, was not properly considered
Mrs E added that because the adviser wasnt trained  in this (Voyant) software, there  should 
have been a system  in place to deal with the risk of the CETV not being met due to this lack 
Ref: DRN41043364of training. Mrs E considers the correct process would be to refer the case to a risk manager 
once the adviser  was aware the CETV  would  not be met. And that would then allow  the risk 
manager to consider the risks associated  with her transfer.
How risks are managed in any given  business is for it to decide.  And in this case, the 
adviser, who was qualified to advise in DB transfers,  working  in conjunction  with SJPs 
DB team, appear to have  been responsible for managing those risks.
Mrs E said that the adviser was aware  of the previous CETV (obtained by her earlier 
financial adviser, who was unable to assist with a transfer in 2016), being lower than the 
January 2017  CETV. So he (the SJP adviser) wouldve been aware of the risks of the CETV 
not being met as the value could fall back down again. This is not in dispute.  As I said in my 
provisional decision, any adviser working  in this field would be aware of this risk.
 
I acknowledge Mrs Es point that she was responding to the adviser very quickly  each time 
she was asked for information. This was not in dispute. The issue in dispute here was 
whether SJP caused unreasonable delays without which the January 2017  CETV could have 
been secured.  I accept  there was some  delay after her meeting with the adviser  in May 2017 
up until she was told that SJP were no longer considering her case in late June 2017. But 
my finding  remains that, on balance, SJP did not cause unreasonable  delays which resulted 
in the CETV deadline of 6 April 2017 being  missed.
The ombudsman has spent a significant amount of time on trying to demonstrate  a fictitious 
timeline, whilst  making assumptions regarding  expectations being managed
The timeline that was used in my provisional  decision  was based on evidence from both 
parties. Where there wasnt enough information  to see what  exactly  would have happened or 
when, I made my decision based  on a balance of probabilities.
The ombudsman focused entirely on trying to prove,  or disprove, whether the adviser 
guaranteed that the CETV date would be met
In my provisional decision,  the key issue for me to establish was whether the actions of SJP 
had caused Mrs E to lose out on the higher CETV. And as I concluded previously, on 
balance, I dont consider its actions did cause  Mrs E to miss out on the CETV that expired on 
6 April 2017. The issue of any guarantee that may have been  given by the adviser,  was only 
one part of my decision   this was in the context of understanding whether SJP had 
managed Mrs Es expectations. 
Whilst I appreciate SJP may not have told Mrs E the CETV would not be met, I cannot  
conclude that it provided her with any guarantee that it would be met. As I noted previously, 
where the evidence  is incomplete or contradictory,  I need to make a judgement  on a balance  
of probabilities. So whilst I cannot be 100% sure, I consider it was more likely than not, that 
the adviser didnt  guarantee  the CETV deadline would be met for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision.
The ombudsman didnt  acknowledge that the adviser professionally  neglected Mrs E after 
the CETV  date passed  in particular,  there  were  delays  in telling her about SJPs  change in 
policy
I did note in my provisional decision that the adviser did cause  some  delays after the CETV 
date had passed. This was also the case for Mrs E due to her holiday  as I said previously, 
Ref: DRN41043365I make  no criticism of her for that. However, looking at the further comments from Mrs E, Ive 
revisited my provisional decision which did not include  an award for distress and 
inconvenience. Ive looked particularly at the period after the first CETV elapsed,  and I agree 
with Mrs E that during this period the adviser couldve managed her expectations better. 
There was a significant period of inaction  culminating in the adviser  claiming that his 
employer had moved the goal posts, something  which SJP itself disputes.
Its inevitable in my view that Mrs E would  have become distressed on later learning that the 
CETV she could obtain was much less than had been quoted in January 2017. However, as 
Ive explained,  I dont hold SJP responsible for the fact this value  was missed, so I wont be 
making an award for financial loss. I will, however, be making an award for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by SJP as the result of delays in communicating with Mrs E after the 
CETV had passed.
I understand that Mrs E has found  some of the comments made by SJP in internal emails 
unprofessional. But these were internal emails where the adviser  was providing his thoughts 
Mrs Es attitude as to whether she wanted  to transfer. Im sorry that she found some of what 
was said distasteful,  but none of the personal  comments that were said in these emails has 
affected my judgment of her case.
Mrs E has obtained a new valuation from the former  scheme, which shows she could  have 
achieved a transfer value of £393,000 as of 7 April 2017
After 6 April 2017  when some delays did occur, Mrs E said that she received a CETV  from 
the OPS for £393,000 as of the date 7 April 2017.  This letter  is dated  17 December 2018 
and was sent to Mrs E on a request she made  on 26 November 2018.  I thank Mrs E for 
providing this evidence which was not provided to me before  my provisional  decision. 
The new CETV from the former OPS shows that Mrs E could  have achieved  a transfer value 
of £393,000 as of 7 April 2017. As this was retrospectively obtained, its difficult to say what 
wouldve happened if it had been  obtained  sooner. However, at the time of the advice from 
SJP, there would not have been an understanding that the parties were working to this new 
CETV and so Im not able to say that SJP should have achieved this transfer  value. If 
anything, SJP should have told Mrs E sooner than it did in June 2017, that it was no longer 
able to take her case forward.  
Since my provisional decision and Mrs Es response, I asked the adjudicator  to write to her 
to explain I agree that during this period  (April to June 2017) the adviser  could have 
managed her expectations  better. SJP was also told of this decision. I indicated  to both 
parties that whilst I didnt consider I could make an award for financial loss, I was 
considering an overall  award of £400 for the distress and inconvenience  Mrs E had suffered 
from SJPs communication failings  after April 2017.  
SJP disagreed it caused delays in communicating to Mrs E that it was no longer going to 
consider her case,  but it added no further  comments beyond the information it has already 
provided. Mrs E has responded with comments in several  emails  in response to my 
proposed award  and outcome.
Mrs Es further comments
Mrs E has suggested that my revised  thoughts about the delays caused by SJP after April 
2017 now detract from its failure to secure the January 2017 CETV. She has repeated  a 
Ref: DRN41043366number of the comments she made about SJPs failure to risk manage the advice process in 
order to secure that CETV, and considers she is caught up in a dispute  between SJP and its 
own adviser. Mrs E also says my proposed  award of £400  for the distress and 
inconvenience shes suffered, is hurtful.  She feels that the fact she now works within  the 
financial services industry  has been used against her.
On the matter of the new 7 April 2017 CETV, Mrs E suggests this is a value the adviser 
should have obtained, as his DB team suggested he would need  instead  of presenting  her 
with an out of date transfer value analysis report in May 2017.  She provided  a link to an 
industry consultants website, which set out that best practice would be to obtain a new 
transfer value  once it was apparent the original one could not be secured. 
Mrs E has also asked  me to clarify at what point  I consider SJP should have told her it could 
not take her case forward, given  that the adviser became unresponsive and failed to provide 
the DB team with the information it requested. 
Mrs E has reiterated her point that SJP and its adviser  should  never  have accepted her case  
in the first place knowing that it was unlikely to deem  her case suitable for transfer, based on 
its own internal guidelines.  Finally,  Mrs E says the advisers further failings are reflected in 
the fact that he told her about the charges to expect  she said she was told the charge 
would be an initial fee of 2%, but that this wasnt disclosed in writing. When she reviewed 
internal papers this disclosed a 3% fee with high ongoing charges.
my conclusions to the further comments
Ive taken on board Mrs Es further  comments, but I remain  of the view that it wouldnt have 
been possible to secure the January 2017  CETV. And from the information Ive seen, whilst I 
can see that the DB team were asking the adviser for more information,  I cant conclude  that 
this amounted to a dispute between them which caused delay to the advice process.
In terms of the website  link Mrs E refers  to, this highlights what  might  be considered (in the 
view of its author) best practice. It also highlights the costs  in requesting new CETV  when  
the advice might not yet be ready  to go. Some advisers might follow  this and always ensure 
they have a current transfer  value  to hand, but not all advisers necessarily do given this 
could incur further costs   and it may be possible to give advice on whether a transfer, in 
principle, is a good idea based  on a recently issued value. The new value could be higher or 
lower than this.
Ive considered the relevant rules  and what would be considered good industry practice   so 
that wouldnt necessarily  be the same  as what an industry commentator thinks, as in our 
experience different advisers have different approaches to when an updated CETV should 
be requested. I acknowledge the (SJP) adviser  could have requested a new CETV 
immediately the first one expired  which is what the DB team  flagged  to him. But as Ive 
said, there wouldve  been a cost involved in this and for the reasons stated above, this did 
not prevent him from giving initial advice. The article  also makes it clear that advice should 
not be rushed  through in order  to meet a CETV deadline.
On the question of when  should the adviser  have told Mrs E SJP could no longer  help,  its 
difficult to be precise.  It appears  from all the correspondence that the adviser genuinely  
thought he could help during the currency period of the first CETV. Where  I think things went  
wrong was after the CETV expired and how he failed to manage Mrs Es expectations. As he 
became aware  of the DB teams concerns and it could become difficult to support a case  for 
Ref: DRN41043367transferring, he couldve  communicated that to Mrs E sooner during the period between April 
and June 2017  particularly as he could only recommend a SJP pension,  which  might  make 
it difficult for SJP to accept her business as an insistent client (I note Mrs Es confirmation 
that she would not have  gone ahead as an insistent  client).
My provisional decision did deal, in detail, with Mrs Es points about whether SJP should 
have told her from the start that it was unlikely to accept her case. My conclusion was, that 
based on the evidence Ive seen,  I cant say that when SJP accepted Mrs Es case in 
January 2017,  it knew or shouldve known, its policy was about  to change which ultimately 
led to it not taking her case  further. In terms of the SJP fees, Mrs E says the adviser  
incorrectly told her the advice fees were lower than in fact they were. I note Mrs E was not 
charged any fees during this process  and its difficult to say what  the adviser told her given  it 
was not put in writing.
So whilst I understand this will be a disappointing outcome for Mrs E, Im only upholding her 
complaint in part. Having considered the way in which SJP failed to manage Mrs Es 
expectations after April 2017,  my final decision is that Im going to make  an award of £400 
for the distress and inconvenience she has suffered specifically in respect of this. I consider 
this is in line with awards  made by the ombudsman service in cases  like this where there has 
been a significant amount of upset  caused  over a protracted period.  Ive not considered  the 
industry Mrs E works in, relevant to this award  or my overall  findings.
I appreciate Mrs E has found this experience distressing and put considerable effort  into 
putting her case to our service. I havent  however found sufficient grounds in the arguments 
shes made to warrant making an award for any perceived financial loss shes  suffered.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require St. Jamess Place Wealth Management  Plc to pay 
Mrs E £400  for the distress and inconvenience  she has suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41043368COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
(outcome removed)
complaint
Mrs Es complaint  concerns  delays which she says resulted in her losing a favourable transfer value  
from her occupational  pension scheme (OPS). She says St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc 
(SJP) were responsible for that.
background
On 6 January 2017, Mrs E received a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value  (CETV) from her OPS of 
£452,203. This CETV  expired on 6 April 2017. She wanted to transfer her defined benefits  (DB) 
pension to a personal pension plan. One of her main objectives was to retire early and to have more  
flexibility in the way she drew her pension  benefits.  Mrs E wanted  to retire at 55 rather  than the 
normal OPS retirement  age of 60. At the time of seeking advice to transfer, Mrs E was 45 years old.
Prior to approaching  SJP,  Mrs E had discussed the possible transfer with another  financial adviser.  
As part of a review  of her overall finances this adviser  obtained a transfer value from Mrs Es OPS. 
She received the transfer value of £452,203 in a letter  dated 6 January 2017. But this adviser told her 
as he wasnt qualified to deal with this type of work, Mrs E will need  to find an adviser who is. So this 
is when Mrs E approached SJP on 24 January 2017 firstly contacting the SJP adviser by email. A 
meeting with the SJP adviser (the adviser) was arranged for 1 February. 
At the initial meeting the adviser  requested information from Mrs E and the suitability  assessment 
process began. Mrs E says on 22 February 2017, the adviser told her he was in a position  to put her 
case to SJPs Business Assurance or defined benefit team (hereinafter referred to as the DB 
team). So with that in mind, the adviser  wanted to arrange  a meeting  with Mrs E to discuss his 
findings. The meeting took place on 28 February. After this point the adviser continued to ask for 
further information including:
1 March 2017  the adviser asked  about Mrs Es life cover provisions. Mrs E responded on 
the same day.
9 March 2017  the adviser asked  Mrs E to obtain the early  reduction factor  from her OPS  as 
it wouldnt provide this to him. Mrs E responded  the next day with a response from her OPS. 
The OPS  said it would not provide this factor. But it said to work on a basis of a reduced 
pension of approximately 25% (for retiring  at 55). 
16 March 2017  the adviser confirms he has made a submission to the SJP DB team.
23 March 2017  the DB team respond to the adviser asking for further information  in 
particular a cash flow analysis.
6 April 2017  the CETV expires.
Mrs E said on 18 April 2017  she received confirmation from the adviser that SJP would accept  the 
transfer in principle. On 19 April he contacted her to arrange a meeting. As she was away on holiday 
this was set up for the 10 May. At this meeting,  the adviser took Mrs E through a comparison  report  
and her reasons  for deciding to transfer. But on 22 June  she received a message from him saying 
SJP had changed the goal posts, with it no longer  willing  to accept  DB transfers for people who were  
so far away from retirement age. Mrs E met with the adviser on 3 July where he confirmed  the transfer 
couldnt proceed with SJP.
On 6 July 2017 Mrs E requested a copy of the report  as to why the transfer couldnt proceed.  The 
adviser told her there wasnt  a report. He explained it was a decision made  by SJP who were no 
longer comfortable accepting  transfers in her type of situation.
In November 2017, Mrs E complained to SJP. She said its handling of her case led to her losing out 
on the most favourable  CETV. She says the total loss was £75,105, being  the difference between the 
Ref: DRN41043369CETV quoted by her OPS  in January 2017 of £452,203 and the CETV she eventually proceeded  with 
of £377,098 which she obtained from her OPS on 17 August 2017.  Mrs E had instructed a new 
adviser to deal with the eventual transfer.
In response to her complaint, SJP said due to Mrs Es request to transfer out of a DB pension, 
specialist advice was needed because of the valuable benefits that were being given up. And various 
steps needed to be taken before a formal recommendation could be made by its adviser. SJP said for 
these reasons, it wouldnt guarantee timescales  about when the transfer would take place. And it 
hadnt seen anything to suggest the adviser  had made any promises to Mrs E about meeting the 
CETV deadline (6 April 2017).
In terms of what its adviser had said to Mrs E about SJP moving the goal posts in June 2017,  SJP 
said the suitability  assessment carried  out in her case was in line with its Advice Standard  issued in 
January 2017. It said although these standards hadnt changed, in June it issued further guidance to 
its financial advisers to assist with the assessment of suitability. Unhappy  with SJPs response, Mrs E 
brought her complaint to our service.
Overall, our investigator  didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  He didnt consider  there was any 
persuasive evidence to show that SJP had promised  Mrs E the deadline  would be met. He noted  the 
main priority for both parties was to ensure the transfer was suitable.  And there was enough evidence 
to show  the adviser was exploring suitability up to and beyond the guarantee deadline  date. And 
Mrs Es own timeline  shows  she was being kept reasonably informed on what  was happening. He 
also noted that due to a change in SJPs guidelines in June 2017, it was no longer willing  to accept  
her type of case. 
Mrs E disagreed with our adjudicators view.  In summary, she said SJP had a duty to work within the 
relevant timescale. And in light of the guidelines it issued in January 2017, if SJP had been clear it 
wouldnt accept her type of case from the start, she wouldve had time to make alternative 
arrangements. So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my reasoning, whilst I appreciate  how strongly  Mrs E feels about this complaint, it 
isnt my role to address  all the questions and issues shes raised,  much  of which  has been addressed 
by the adjudicator during  the course of her complaint  with this service. My role is to concentrate  on 
the issues  directly relevant  to the outcome  of the case.  And to make a decision  based on what  I think  
the central issues are.
the agreement
Mrs Es complaint,  in essence, is that delays  caused by SJP caused her to miss out on a more  
favourable transfer  value.  She points to the fact that her subsequent  advisers was able to carry  out 
the transfer within six weeks.  She says if SJP had acted in the same way, she wouldve secured the 
transfer value she was given  on 6 January 2017.
 
The starting  point for any adviser  considering  a transfer  of this nature is its regulatory  responsibility 
set down  in the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules at COBS 19.1.6G, to assume a transfer out of a 
defined benefit (DB) scheme is unlikely  to be in the individuals  best interests.  So any adviser  looking 
at this type of transfer  would need to make a robust case that the transfer is suitable before any 
transfer could be recommended. 
Mrs E was aware that her particular request to transfer from her final salary pension required 
specialist advice.  Her previous financial adviser had told her he was unable  to help as he was not 
suitably qualified  so he recommended finding someone else to help. Also Mrs E wouldve  only been 
Ref: DRN410433610allowed to transfer out from her pension if the OPS were satisfied  shed received advice  from a 
suitably authorised  person, who would need  to confirm  this in writing.  
In terms of her main objectives Mrs E says in her submissions to this service  the main reasons for 
approaching the SJP adviser was she wished  to arrange a comparison between remaining  in the 
[OPS] against  a personal pension, as we [her and her husband] wanted to explore safeguarding  the 
benefits for our dependants in the event of my death, as well as provide a more flexible approach in 
retirement; however we were unclear whether this would disadvantage us financially.   As noted 
above she also wanted  to retire early.
Whilst the (SJP) adviser was instructed to provide advice on suitability  to Mrs E he was only ever 
going to be able to recommend a transfer, if he thought one was suitable, into an SJP pension plan. 
This is because SJP does not offer whole of market  advice, so he could only recommend their 
products.
timescales
I note Mrs E highlighted the expiry date to her previous  adviser and sent this email to the (SJP) 
adviser on 24 January 2017. But as someone dealing with DB transfers the adviser wouldve  been 
aware there would be an expiry date and three months is a common time for CETVs to expire in 
these types of cases. So I dont think there is a dispute  the adviser wouldve known  the timescales  
involved when Mrs E made the approach.
What is in dispute is what  Mrs E was told about how quickly the work would  be done.  I would  expect 
the adviser to ensure the customers expectations were managed from the start of the process. What  
Mrs E says actually happened  was the adviser throughout the advisory process,  offered her 
reassurances that the deadline of 6 April 2017 would be met. But the adviser says Mrs E was told 
from the very start that her case was borderline and he made it clear to her that it was unlikely the 
advice would be ready before the CETV deadline. 
Ive seen no written evidence  to support what either party is saying. Because  of this I need to make a 
decision based on a balance of probabilities of what  I think  is most likely  to have happened. 
And on balance, I dont  think  the adviser did make  Mrs E the promise that the CETV  deadline  would 
be met. I say this because the adviser  had a number  of steps  to overcome before giving  the advice 
which largely  depended  on the input  of third parties. He had to make a robust case  to the DB team 
and also had to rely on third parties such as the OPS to provide information. Also as Mrs E wouldve 
been transferring into an SJP policy, whether  or not SJP (as the policy provider)  would accept the 
transfer as new investment business might reasonably  depend on whether  Mrs E had been advised to 
transfer or not to transfer.  Further, as Mrs E didnt approach SJP for more than two weeks after 
receiving the CETV, the time in which to offer advice, was always going  to be more challenging.
I know Mrs E said she did raise the issue of the deadline on a number of occasions in face-to-face  
meetings and over the phone. And each time was told not to worry  by the adviser.  But I cant see 
evidence of Mrs E raising questions about the deadline not being  met in any of the exchanges 
between her and the adviser even after the date had passed.  So whilst I appreciate Mrs E may have 
trusted her adviser, if a promise had been made that a deadline would  be met, Id at least  expect to 
see evidence of questions  being raised  particularly when  the deadline had passed. I make no criticism 
of Mrs E for that. I just think, on balance of probabilities,  the guarantee wasnt made. That said, I still 
need to ensure the adviser didnt contribute to any unreasonable delays.
delays
Mrs E says she was advised  by her previous  adviser  to act quickly when she received  the CETV on 
6 January 2017. She didnt approach SJP until 24 January  which was more than two weeks after she 
received this letter. This left just under ten weeks for SJP to complete its work.  And ten weeks isnt a 
Ref: DRN410433611long time given the parties that need to be contacted, the analysis  that needs to be completed,  the 
meetings that need to be held and the paperwork that needs to be completed. 
To explain further, in this services experience not all transfers do complete  within a three-month 
period  and when they dont, due to the number  of steps involved in the advice process it isnt always  
the fault of any of the parties involved. And by the time Mrs E had her first meeting  with the adviser  on 
1 February 2017, there was only nine weeks remaining  before the CETV  guarantee date expired.  
By the time the OPS  responded to the request by SJP for information, on 8 and 10 February 2017, 
there was just under  eight  weeks left to make a suitability  recommendation. Further, even after the 
OPS replied to SJP,  more information was needed. Particularly the early  reduction factor. I can see 
that Mrs E confirmed to SJP on 10 March 2017 the OPS werent willing  to provide this information. At 
this point there was less than a month for SJP to make its final assessment and to do so without all 
the information it had asked for. 
Between 10 February and 10 March 2017, I can see from the timeline set out above, that there was 
information being gathered by the adviser. This included  fact find information from Mrs E which he 
arranged to collect and to discuss his initial thoughts on 28 February 2017.  On 16 March 2017 after 
the adviser updated Mrs E with progress  of her case,  he wrote  to the SJP DB team  setting out Mrs Es 
objectives. This was replied  on 23 March as follows: 
If you feel you can answer the points and present a robust case there is no need to respond to my 
queries, simply  ensure that they are fully covered or clarified in the documents  you submit to BA [DB 
team]. 
I can see following this response,  the adviser needed some training on a system to produce the cash 
flow analysis he was asked for. He received this training on 18 April 2017. This did cause some delay  
 If hed had this training  beforehand he wouldve been able to get the analysis  completed sooner.  But 
by the time the adviser received  the feedback  from the DB team  on 23 March, I think  at this point, 
given the other information  that was required and the further  analysis that was needed, along with 
having to go back to Mrs E with the results, there wasnt any real prospect the CETV  date would now 
be met. 
Ive reached this conclusion taking into account that its difficult  for me to second-guess  what  SJPs 
advice might have been. Im aware Mrs Es new adviser  has recommended a transfer, but given the 
regulators starting  position that a transfer is unlikely to be suitable, I cant automatically  say another  
adviser would have  reached the same conclusion. This was a matter for the advisers own judgement 
 in this case in conjunction  with the oversight of SJPs DB team.  From what I can see the suggestion  
that the adviser submit  for pre-approval wasnt  itself a guarantee  that the DB team would agree  that a 
transfer was suitable, or there  would  have been no need to submit it to them. 
If the advice was not to transfer  or even if there  were  some  concerns highlighted about what Mrs E 
would be giving up in transferring, SJP would  need to ensure that she had an opportunity  to reflect on 
that advice rather than attempting to rush it through at the last minute. 
In addition if the advice was not to transfer, SJP has confirmed to this service that it was unwilling to 
accept business that was transacted on an insistent client basis. In other words, if Mrs E chose to 
reject the advice and wanted  to go ahead, and whilst she could still have asked SJP to sign her 
OPSs form to confirm it had provided advice, she would have  needed a different provider to transfer 
to. And as it didnt give whole of market advice, it would have been difficult for SJP to assist  her with 
that. So given all of these potential issues this is why Ive concluded on the balance of probabilities  it 
wasnt likely the CETV date would  be met.
I appreciate Mrs E thinks the SJP adviser wasnt qualified to do the work because he needed training  
on the cash flow analysis system. But I can see the adviser was qualified to give pension transfer 
advice and that this was checked by SJPs  DB team  before he started  working on Mrs Es case. A 
business is entitled to introduce new processes and they might require  training, but Ive set out above 
Ref: DRN410433612that even  if this had been done in a way that caused no delay at that particular point,  its still unlikely  
the CETV deadline  would have been met.
I can see after completing  the training  the adviser contacted Mrs E on 19 April 2017 to arrange  a 
meeting. They didnt meet until 10 May 2017 as Mrs E was away on holiday until then, although  I 
appreciate this was after the CETV had already expired. After  this meeting, the adviser first told Mrs E 
that SJP was not willing  to take on her case. He told her initially  by email on 22 June 2017,  which was 
six weeks after their meeting in May 2017. And of course by this time the CETV  had expired over two 
months ago so it wouldve always been necessary to get a new value before carrying  out more  
analysis. 
So I do accept that after the May 2017 meeting  the adviser does  seem to have caused a delay in 
completing his analysis. I can see on 8 June 2017, SJP DB team  confirmed they provided their 
thoughts on 23 March  2017, and if the adviser  feels all the points can be addressed and he feels  the 
transfer is in Mrs Es best interest the case can be submitted  for pre-approval. And it was only in June 
that the adviser decided he wasnt going to take Mrs Es due to further guidance from SJP about  
these types of cases. 
So whilst these delays  are unsatisfactory from a customer service  point of view,  overall, I dont think  
SJP are responsible  for the financial loss Mrs E is claiming she suffered as a result of delays by SJP. 
I agree that it took SJP a long time after its meeting with her on 10 May 2017  to reach  a conclusion  on 
her case. But there was never any guarantee even without this change  in the policy  that it wouldve 
been willing to say that a transfer was suitable  for her or in light of this, that SJP as a provider  would  
be willing to invest the proceeds of a transfer.  Had SJP continued to recommend  or been willing to 
accept a transfer, this would  have been after May 2017 when the CETV  had already  long passed,  so 
Mrs E would never have obtained  the CETV  that expired in April 2017. And as Ive noted  above,  
before this date, I dont  think SJP caused  any unreasonable delays.
Mrs E compares her new adviser to SJP saying when she instructed new advisers to provide advice 
on the new CETV obtained  in August  2017, the whole  process took around six weeks to complete and 
comfortably met the revised deadline.  She said she attended a similar number  of meetings,  provided 
the same level of information and discussed the guarantee  date. And despite a delay when contacting 
the OPS to request a more detailed explanation of calculations, it was agreed her transfer was 
suitable and a successful  transfer was completed within the guarantee. Mrs E has provided 
documents pertaining  to this transfer.
Looking over all these documents I can see it did take longer than the six weeks Mrs E claimed it did. 
I also note Mrs E was already employed by the new adviser by the time she asked for and received  
the advice. So unlike with the SJP adviser, it wouldve  been easier, for example, to arrange  meetings  
and so on. Further, its clear  the agreement  was set up before the new CETV  was obtained. A letter of 
authority for her new adviser was signed by Mrs E on 10 August  2017. And the new CETV was dated  
17 August. This is a very different scenario from the one faced by SJP in that it was approached by 
Mrs E more than two weeks after she received the CETV dated 6 January 2017.
Overall, I can see that it took eight weeks for the new advisers initial  recommendation to be made. 
And there was still further  work that needed to be done. And by the time the new adviser signed the 
OPS confirmation of advice document on 7 November  2017, the whole  process took longer  than 
eleven weeks.  So if I applied the same standard to SJP, this would  mean, even if it had done exactly  
the same things, it wouldve taken them over the expiry date of 6 April 2017. Ive discussed above  that 
it would be unreasonable to expect SJP to rush a transfer through that it hadnt advised on properly. 
So compared  to another adviser  who had ready access  to Mrs E before she received the new CETV 
in August 2017, I think this shows a realistic timescale for how long this transfer would have taken.
SJP guidance in January  and June 2017
Mrs E says SJP couldve  told her from the start they would  never accept her case as its guidance 
hadnt changed from January 2017 until its new guidance in June.  It was on 22 June 2017  the adviser  
Ref: DRN410433613told Mrs E that SJP had moved  the goal posts.  The goal posts  in this context is the updated 
guidance SJP issued to its financial advisers  on 13 June 2017 by email which  was issued  internally to 
its partners and didnt form part of its Advice Guidance until much later.
As SJPs  advice included a recommendation to take out one of its plans, then it could at any time 
make a commercial  decision  not to accept certain types of new business. This is a legitimate business 
decision to make  and will be based on the organisations appetite for risk and organisational priorities. 
Clearly it would have been unfair if it had already agreed to transfer Mrs Es funds into one of its 
policies. But at the time it told her about the change it was still considering her case.
Having reviewed  SJPs  January Defined Benefit Transfers Process  and Documentation  Guide,  
I cant  see anything that wouldve meant that it was never going to accept Mrs Es case. SJP has 
confirmed its policy was evolving all the time due to the high demand for these types  of transfer since 
pension freedoms  were  introduced. So whilst  its policy  hadnt changed, it said there was an ongoing 
dialogue with its partners (advisers) about these types of cases. And this is what led to it updating  its 
guidance on 13 June  2017.  And this is why Mrs Es case was eventually turned down.
So I cant conclude  that when  it accepted  Mrs Es case in January 2017,  SJP knew or shouldve 
known, its policy was about  to change. It follows that I dont think  it had a duty to tell Mrs E this was 
the case  from the outset.
In summary, whilst I acknowledge there were  some delays letting  Mrs E know that it was no longer 
willing to accept her type of case, I dont think this caused  Mrs E to miss out on the CETV that expired 
on 6 April 2017. Therefore, I cant hold SJP responsible for the financial loss Mrs E is claiming she 
suffered as a result of the transfer value  (CETV) she eventually got. I also havent seen any evidence 
that SJP did make any guarantees to Mrs E that this deadline would be met.
Ref: DRN4104336