K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service he received from Ageas Insurance  Limited (Ageas), and 
their agents,  when he claimed  under  his home  insurance policy for damage related to an 
escape of water in his home.
background
Mr Ss kitchen  ceiling, walls  and a cupboard were damaged by a leak from a pipe under his 
bath. He had a home insurance policy with Ageas and made a claim in January 2018.
Ageas appointed a claims handler and contractor to assess and repair the damage, but Mr S 
wasnt happy with the quality of the work done.  Ageas  didnt agree that the repairs had been  
done badly and said the marks  visible on Mr Ss ceiling after the repairs were pre-existing 
and unrelated to the water  damage.
After some protracted correspondence  between all the parties  involved,  Mr S came  to our 
service in January  2019.
Events between January  2018 and December  2019
What follows is a summary of the key things that happened between Mr S, the claims 
handler, the contractor  and Ageas  from the start of the claim to his coming to our service. 
I havent included  reference to every  email or telephone conversation that took place during 
that period, but Id like to reassure Mr S that Ive read all the evidence thats been provided, 
including his detailed  written account of events, and listened to recordings of the calls.
February 2018 The claims handler called Mr S, took further details of the claim, and 
explained theyd  appoint a surveyor. Mr S was asked whether hed be 
interested in an online  service  called Track my claim.  He declined.
14 May Mr S cleared  his kitchen  for the contractor to start work, but they didnt 
arrive.
17 May The claims handler called Mr S to check in with how things were  going. He 
advised that he couldnt use the Track my claim function on their website 
as it didnt accept  his postcode. He also said there  was some disagreement 
with the contractor about what work would be done.
31 May Mr S advised the claims handler that he was unhappy with the quality  of the 
work done. The claims handler agreed  not to close the claim and to speak 
with the contractor.
12 June Mr S called the claims handler.  He was advised  the contractor had asked 
for authorisation to skim the ceiling with plaster. The claims handler 
agreed to speak with the surveyor and a technical  adviser.
19 June The claims handler left Mr S a voicemail message advising that the 
contractor would be visiting as planned, and hed be updated after theyd  
attended.
26 June Report from contractor (dated 22 June)  sent to Ageas  they concluded the 
marks on the ceiling were due to the original construction of the ceiling, not 
the recent works  (which had involved only repapering and painting  the 
water damaged area).
27 June Mr S called the claims handler.  He was unhappy no one had called him 
with an update, and hed had to call them  at his expense. He said no one 
had addressed his issue  with the Track your claim function.
Ref: DRN43395812The claims handler said that the file had been  referred to the insurers.  Mr S 
made it clear  hed signed no certificate  of satisfaction. He mentioned that 
the contractor hadnt  turned up when promised and left debris  and mess at 
the end of the job. He said, youre  still to be advised of comments about 
the whole  business. When Mr S asked whether the contractor  had been 
paid, he was told they hadnt.  The claims handler agreed to speak with 
Ageas.
2 July The claims handler called Mr S and told him no further work would be done 
at his property. He asked for the contractor  to call him. He again asked if 
the contractor had been paid and was told they had. The call was passed 
through to Ageas. Mr S explained he was completely  dissatisfied  with the 
work. Ageas advised the claims handler  that it would be better  if the 
contractor spoke with Mr S to explain why the finish on the ceiling was like 
it was.
Mr S called the claims handler  again, confirmed hed been in contact with 
the contractor and requested copies of the photographs taken by the 
surveyor. The claims handler  said the photographs showed the ceiling 
wasnt flat before the repair  works.
6 July Mr S called the claims handler.  He commented  that hed been on hold a 
long while and wanted to know if there were any more photographs.  He 
said the letter hed received from Ageas acknowledging his complaint was 
presumptuous.  The claims handler agreed  to find out about the 
photographs.
9 July Mr S called the claims handler,  said hed been  on hold for 12 minutes and 
had been expecting a call. He asked for a surveyor to visit. He said he 
wasnt happy the contractor had been  paid without any satisfaction form 
from him. The claims handler sent him some  further photographs from the 
file.
20 July Mr S emailed the claims handler. He refuted the finding that his ceiling was 
uneven before the works. He repeated his request  for a surveyor to visit 
and pointed out that the contractor had had to do the papering  twice  
because the ceiling wasnt properly dry at first.
24 July Ageas sent Mr S a final response  to his complaint. They concluded that the 
ceiling was uneven  before the works and that the repair work could  not 
have caused the visible indentations. They said he should contact our 
service if he remained dissatisfied.
7 August Mr S called Ageas.  He said hed been on hold for 7 minutes.  He was 
unhappy his concerns had been  treated as a complaint. He said he hadnt 
yet specified a complaint or given his comments on the workmen.
9 August Mr S spoke with Ageas.  He explained  how frustrated  he was with them 
repeatedly leaving  him messages and expecting  him to call back  at his 
expense. He wanted an explanation for why the contractor had been paid 
when hed vetoed it. He asked for the surveyor to visit, and explained he 
thought the contractor had damaged the ceiling plaster before papering 
over it. He was advised to escalate his concerns to our service.
14 August The claims handler and Ageas  discussed the case and agreed that 
additional works would improve Mr Ss ceiling beyond  its pre-loss condition.
15 August The claims handler advised Mr S there would be no further visits and their 
file would be closed.
Ref: DRN43395813August 2018 
to January 
2019Mr S and Ageas exchanged further  emails and letters.
In his email of 9 November Mr S said hed never stipulated his complaint 
and the complaints process had been  invoked without his participation. He 
explained: the ceiling had been painted the wrong  colour; the pulley 
mechanism for his clothes  drier had been  damaged; the workmen  had left 
paint and adhesive  splashes on surfaces;  and theyd failed to clean up after 
one of the workmen cut themselves. Mr S added that Ageas should have 
sent an independent surveyor rather than relying  on the manager 
responsible for assurances.
Ageas repeated their advice that Mr S should  contact  our service.
Our investigators view
Our investigator agreed with Mr S that the repair works should be redone. He said the 
surveyor should have  forewarned Mr S if he thought the condition of the ceiling would result 
in a poor finish, and because  he hadnt done  so Mr Ss opportunity to have a satisfactory  
repair had been  taken away. He also said that the scope of work included  preparing the 
ceiling; he said this should have involved ensuring the ceiling was ready  for the paper and 
paint to achieve a satisfactory  finish. Ageas accepted this outcome and the works were 
completed to Mr Ss satisfaction.
With regards to the way the claim was handled, and the service Mr S received from Ageas 
and their agents, our investigators view changed over time. But, having considered Mr Ss 
detailed representations about his experience,  our investigator recognised that the service  
Ageas had provided caused Mr S unnecessary trouble and upset. He said Ageas should pay 
Mr S £250  compensation and, on production of the relevant evidence  of damage and 
receipts, reimburse Mr S for his clothes  airer and kitchen  curtains  (Mr S has since  clarified 
that it was his ceiling light that was damaged, not curtains. Hes explained that the fitting was 
bent by the contractor  and caused the shade to fall out and break).
Ageas agreed  to this outcome. Mr S, however, asked for an Ombudsman to review  the way 
his claim had been dealt with. He said he cant consider the matter  settled because:
The contractor hasnt  been made  to return the £250 excess he paid them and have  
got off scot free;
Ageas  lied to him during the claim about whether the contractor had been  paid, 
displaying poor business ethics;
Ageas  refused to countenance any errors and took the side of the contractor;
Ageas  dealt with his concerns as a complaint and shrugged off his queries  to our 
service prematurely;
He cant accept that he should  bear the cost of complaining (i.e. the cost of 
telephone calls etc); and
He feels the reprehensible  behaviour  of all concerned should be widely  publicised.
Mr S told our investigator  that what hed been  through was disruptive and Ageas were 
dismissive . He said hes not received any apology and feels hes the only one whos been 
punished . Mr S has also added hes unhappy his insurance premium has gone  up  he 
believes this is as a result of his making this claim.
Ref: DRN43395814Mr S has explained that he incurred out of pocket  expenses  for launderette drying charges,  
postage costs and telephone calls as a result of the way his claim and complaint were dealt 
with by Ageas.  He estimates these costs  to have reached at least  £120.
The scope of this decision
As the quality of the repair works is no longer in dispute and the repairs  have now been  
redone, my role here is to review whether Ageas and their agents  acted fairly and 
reasonably in their handling of the claim,  and the overall service they provided to Mr S 
between January 2018 and December 2018.
Although Ive noted above Mr Ss more  recent  concerns  about  the increase  in his insurance  
premium, this is not something  I can address in this decision. This is because  it didnt form 
part of the complaint responded  to by Ageas in July 2018, and it isnt related to the handling 
of the claim. Mr S should put any concerns he has about his premium  to the business in the 
first instance  so that they have an opportunity to respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree that the service 
Ageas and its agents provided Mr S could have been better in some  respects  and caused  
him unnecessary trouble and upset.  Ill explain why.
For ease of reference I have structured my decision against the main points of Mr Ss 
continuing dissatisfaction.
Issues with the Track my claim  function and keeping Mr S up to date
Although Ive heard in the call recordings that Mr S initially declined  further information about 
using the Track  my claim function,  he made  it very clear in later calls that he wanted  to use 
it but was having technical  issues. This,  I think, added to his growing frustration with the 
claims handler, and it is disappointing  from a general customer service  perspective that none 
of the agents he spoke  with sought  to help him with this problem.  Had he been given some 
help to use this service he may not have felt the need to call them  as often  as he did.
With regard to keeping  Mr S up to date,  I agree  that on a couple of occasions the claims  
handler did fail to contact  Mr S when they said they would. In particular, I think  it would have  
been helpful to update Mr S shortly  after the contractor visited  on 22 June, rather than leave 
it to him to make contact again.  It is clear  from the call recordings that Mr S was finding 
contacting the various agents  a frustrating experience, and I think  more should have been 
done to manage  his expectations and keep him informed.
Ageas investigation of Mr S concerns about  the works done
Mr S made it clear  as early as 31 May that he wasnt happy  with the finish  of his ceiling. Hes 
said he felt his concerns  were ignored  by Ageas throughout, and they simply accepted the 
contractors assessment of their own work.  Having reviewed the before and after images of 
Mr Ss kitchen  ceiling  I dont think they provided sufficient evidence that the marks in the 
ceiling were pre-existing. The before images were  somewhat unclear, particularly as the 
paper visible in them was peeling and distorted  in places  due to the water damage.  And 
there seems to have  been some degree of confusion about whether Mr Ss concerns related 
Ref: DRN43395815to indentations on the ceiling or the degree of curvature at the part of the ceiling where  it 
meets the wall.
In these circumstances, I do think Ageas should  have given greater consideration to Mr Ss 
request for a surveyor  to review what had been  done. Simply asking the contractor  
responsible for the work to assess the quality  and finish  of the work was not, in my view,  
appropriate in this case. Nor was it likely to resolve the dispute. If a surveyor  had been 
instructed, they could  have made  an assessment against the scope of works and considered 
Mr Ss suggestion that the contractor had removed  pieces  of plaster along with the water 
damaged paper. Whilst I cant be certain  that involving a surveyor when Mr S requested  one 
would have resolved the dispute earlier, I think Ageas missed an opportunity  here to obtain  
an independent opinion on matters before they escalated.
Initiation of the complaints process by Ageas and referral to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service
After speaking with Mr S on 2 July, Ageas  logged  his concerns as a formal complaint. Mr S 
has said throughout that this was presumptuous as he hadnt specified a complaint  at that 
point, beyond his dissatisfaction with the finish on his ceiling.
The industry regulator, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (the FCA), sets out how complaints 
are to be dealt with by businesses  (respondents),  in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules.  
These define a complaint as:
 any oral or written  expression of dissatisfaction,  whether  justified or not, from, or 
on behalf of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial  service, 
claims management service or a redress determination, which:
(a)alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material 
distress or material inconvenience;  and
(b)relates to an activity of that respondent, or of any other respondent with whom 
that respondent has some connection  in marketing  or providing financial services 
or products or claims management services, which comes under the jurisdiction 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Taking into account this definition  I do think Ageas were correct to treat the concerns Mr S 
raised on 2 July as a complaint  he was unequivocally expressing dissatisfaction with the 
outcome of his home insurance claim.  However,  respondent  businesses do have  an 
obligation to treat complainants  fairly, and I think Ageas could have done more here to make  
sure they understood all of Mr Ss concerns before investigating and issuing their final 
response letter.
Although his main  and obvious source of dissatisfaction was the quality of the repair, hed 
also raised some issues about  the behaviour of the contractor and indicated that he had 
more to say about  this, but this wasnt explored  further and addressed. If it had been, I think  
some of Mr Ss frustration with the process could have been reduced and, importantly, he 
might have felt hed been listened to.
Once Ageas  had issued their final decision letter on 24 July, I cant say they were wrong to 
repeatedly advise Mr S it was time to contact our service. The DISP  rules are very clear  
about what constitutes a final response letter and the time limits involved  DISP 2.8.2 says 
Ref: DRN43395816that in most cases we cannot consider a complaint if the complainant  refers  it to our service  
more than six months after the date of the final response. I also think  that the relationship  
between Ageas and Mr S had broken down to such an extent by August 2018 that continued 
correspondence after that point was unproductive.
I do appreciate that Mr S felt Ageass referral to us was a tactic to worm out of their 
responsibilities or dispose of his case, but I think their referral was appropriate given the 
extent of disagreement between the parties.
Payment of the contractor  against Mr Ss wishes, and Mr Ss £250 excess
Mr S has described Ageas payment of the contractor for work hed not signed off, as 
tantamount to fraud. From the correspondence  Ive read and call recordings  Ive listened to 
I understand this is something Mr S feels very strongly about. But paying the contractor  
despite the ongoing dispute was a commercial  decision for Ageas, not one for Mr S to take 
or influence.
Whether the contractor has since been  made  to return any payment they received for this 
work (including Mr Ss £250 excess payment) now that a second contractor has redone 
them, is also a commercial matter  for Ageas. As is whether Ageas continue to use this 
contractor. The £250 excess would, in any event, have remained payable by Mr S to Ageas 
for his claim. Thats how it works under the terms of his policy.  Mr S pays the first £250 of 
the claim costs and Ageas the rest.
Mr S is concerned that the contractor has got off scot free, and I understand why hes 
upset that there appear to be no direct  consequences  for those who he feels  let him down so 
badly. But its not my role to punish a business,  or to direct a business to punish  its agents. 
This service looks to resolve individual complaints. Where we decide  that something  has 
gone wrong, we direct  the business,  in this case Ageas, to put things right by putting the 
consumer, as far as is possible, back in the position they would have been  if the problem 
hadnt occurred.  To this end we asked Ageas to arrange for the repair works to be redone,  
and I wont be asking  them to do anything further  in relation to the contractor or Mr Ss 
excess payment.
The costs  of making the claim  and complaint, compensation  for trouble and upset, and the 
costs of replacing items damaged by the contractor
Mr S says he incurred additional  call costs because of the way Ageas handled his claim and 
complaint. Our investigators view was that such  expenses generally fall to the consumer 
because reasonable call and postage costs are part and parcel of making any claim or 
complaint. I agree. But, as Ive said above, I think Mr S did have to telephone Ageas more  
than he would have  done had he been given some help to access the Track my Claim 
function. So, I think its appropriate that Ageas compensate  him for at least  some of his call 
costs. Mr S has also explained that whilst  he was without his clothes airer he spent  money 
drying clothes at a launderette.  Im satisfied that Ageas should also reimburse  this cost as it 
seems likely its an expense he wouldnt have incurred if things had gone better  with the first 
attempt at repairing  his ceiling. For these expenses Ageas should pay Mr S a combined total 
of £75.
I also think Ageas caused Mr S some unnecessary trouble and upset for which he should be 
compensated. As Ive said, I think Mr Ss experience of making the claim and raising  his 
concerns about  the outcome of that claim,  could have been better if; hed been kept 
Ref: DRN43395817informed; his concerns  about the work had been  investigated more  thoroughly;  and more  
effort had been  made to understand  his complaint. For the upset caused by these failings, I 
agree with the investigator that Ageas should  pay Mr S £250.
Mr S has said that the contractor who did the works damaged his clothes airer, and ceiling 
light (not curtains  as our investigator  said). On production of the relevant receipts showing 
that these items were  replaced by Mr S, I also find that Ageas should  reimburse  these costs.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint,  and I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr S £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused;
pay Mr S a total of £75 for his other  expenses; and
on production of the relevant receipts, reimburse  Mr S for his damaged clothes airer 
and ceiling light.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 November  2020.
Beth Wilcox
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4339581