K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ds unhappy that Admiral Insurance Company Limited has found  her to be at fault for an 
accident and with how its dealt with her claim on her motor  insurance policy.  
 
background
Mrs D says she was driving  and noticed a person standing  outside of a pedestrian  bridge 
about to jump in the road. She says this distracted  her and she ran into the back  on a van 
that had stopped. Admiral has said Mrs D was to blame and is liable  as she ran into the back 
of the van. Mrs D disagrees  and says the police said neither party would be at fault given the 
distraction. She wants the accident  to be noted  as no fault and compensation paid for the 
way shes been  dealt with.
Admiral apologised  in its final response  for not getting back  to Mrs D and delaying dealing  
with her complaint.  And it awarded  her a total of £75 compensation for this. But it said 
although it understood the circumstances leading to the accident Mrs D shouldve still been 
able to stop and not hit the rear of the van. The police arent liability  experts  and they 
shouldnt comment on it. Mrs D isnt being  prosecuted for a criminal driving offence but that 
doesnt affect liability issues.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
Admirals policy  says it is entitled  to conduct the defence  or settlement of a claim on 
behalf of Mrs D. And its entitled to admit negligence for any accident or claim.
Admiral acted fairly by accepting  liability for the accident and its decision was in the 
circumstances reasonable. 
Admiral wasnt  obliged  to provide Mrs D with a courtesy car as her policy  says it 
would be provided by an approved repairer when the car was being repaired.  But her 
car was a total loss. 
Mrs D remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  She says Admiral didnt 
carry out any investigation and decided liability in minutes. This was a complex accident with 
mitigating circumstances. It wasnt interested in the police report  or what  the parties said.  It 
says the cars behind  managed to stop but thats a matter  of opinion. She hasnt been treated 
fairly or reasonably.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D has very strong views about  what happened in the incident  and says she wasnt to 
blame. But its not our role to decide  whos at fault for an accident. That is something  only a 
court can consider. We can only look into whether  Admiral has conducted a reasonable 
investigation into a claim,  when  making  its own decision on liability.
Under the terms of the policy Admiral is entitled  to defend and settle  a claim as it sees fit. It 
also doesnt need Mrs Ds approval of any decision to admit  liability, settle a claim or make  a 
payment to a third party. 
Ref: DRN48285702Here Mrs D says Admiral  didnt have regard to the evidence including the police report  and 
made a very quick decision about liability. I understand  her frustration with this but it isnt 
disputed that Mrs D ran into the rear of a van that had stopped  ahead  of her. 
In this circumstance I think Admiral was fully entitled  to conclude that Mrs D would be held 
entirely to blame  for the accident. She had been distracted by the roadside incident, hadnt  
stopped in time and had driven  into the rear of another vehicle. Other vehicles  behind  her 
also managed  to stop in time.  I think in this case the facts speak for themselves not 
withstanding what Mrs D considers mitigating circumstances. 
Mrs D feels she is supported  by what the police have said and done. But, as Admiral  has 
said, it isnt for the police to determine  liability. They provide factual  evidence  and 
information about what has happened which is used, amongst other things, to determine  if a 
driver will be prosecuted for a criminal  offence. And the fact Mrs D isnt being prosecuted 
doesnt mean she isnt liable  for the accident.
Admiral quickly concluded  it didnt think it could successfully prove Mrs D wasnt  to blame for 
the accident. And it decided to admit liability and settle the other  partys  claim.
Mrs D may disagree with Admirals interpretation  of what happened  and its decision to admit 
liability and settle  the claim but I dont think its failed to comply  with the policy  terms or 
exercised its discretion  unfairly or unreasonably when deciding  to settle the case  as its 
done. As such its fair for it to record this accident and claim as a fault one on her record.
Mrs D also complains about  not being  given  a courtesy car. But under the terms of her policy 
Admiral wasnt  obliged  to provide  one as her car was written off and not repaired.
Admiral accepts it couldve  dealt  with Mrs D better  in a couple of respects and its paid her a 
total of £75 compensation for this. Taking everything  into account, including  the level of 
awards we make, I think  thats fair. 
I understand Mrs Ds strength of feeling  and frustration. But I dont  think  I can fairly  or 
reasonably require Admiral to now do anything more including  amending her record  to show 
this claim as a non fault one as shed like. Overall I dont see a compelling  reason to change 
the proposed  outcome in this case.
Ref: DRN48285703my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4828570