K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains Lloyds Bank PLC has unfairly  closed  his account and recorded a fraud  
marker against his name.  He would like this to be removed.
background
Mr D complained to Lloyds about some  disputed transactions on his account.  He said he 
had lost his card whilst  in a store in London  and it had been  used  without his authority.  
Lloyds refunded the two transactions to him.
Mr D then complained  that a third refund had not been  issued  to him  but Lloyds had no 
record of a claim for a third transaction.  And having  looked at Mr Ds statements, it 
appeared this transaction had already  been refunded by the store.
In April 2019, Lloyds  issued its final response  to Mr D telling him it had decided  to end its 
banking relationship with him.  It also said it thought he had made  false claims in the past 
and as a result, it was going to record a fraud  marker against his name.   
When Mr D came to our service, he said Lloyds was unfairly holding  him responsible for 
transactions carried out by his girlfriend.  He  said he had given her his card and PIN to carry 
out a transaction  but she had gone  on to carry out others.  He said he had claimed for 
three transactions and had never made  any other claims  for disputed transactions  with 
Lloyds before  so it was unfair  for it to record a fraud marker.
Our investigator didnt  think she could  ask Lloyds to do anymore.  She thought the test for 
recording the marker had been met and Lloyds had acted fairly.
Mr D did not agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order for Lloyds to record a fraud  marker, it needs  to have relevant and rigorous  evidence  
such that it could  confidently report the matter  to the police.  In other words,  it must have 
reasonable suspicion that Mr D has been dishonest and committed  an offence.
Lloyds has told us Mr D has made multiple claims for disputed transactions.   He denies this 
 yet I have heard the telephone calls between him and Lloyds when he has made 
numerous complaints.   On those where  he says his ex-partner used his card,  his story 
changed from her having  his card with his consent but making extra  transactions, to her 
having obtained his card without his knowledge.
I have also listened  to the calls where  initially Mr D says the transactions in October  were  
carried out whilst he had left his card on a counter in the store.   I have also listened to calls 
where he says his ex-partner carried out the same transactions.  I dont think  Mr D has a 
credible explanation for the different circumstances surrounding the complaint.
Ref: DRN40552782So, considering everything I have seen  and heard, I think  Lloyds has satisfied the test for 
reporting the marker against Mr D and I have seen  nothing to suggest it has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in how it responded to his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4055278