K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Home  Retail  Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos, recorded a 
default on his credit file. He says he was in financial difficulties at the time and he didnt 
receive any notices before the default was recorded. He wants the default  removed.
background
Mr S took out a store card and used a buy now pay later plan to buy a television from Argos  
and says he thought hed set up a direct debit to pay for it. When  he moved address in early 
2018 he didnt  tell Argos, although he says the occupant at his previous address forwarded 
all his post to him. He says he didnt receive  anything from Argos  until he got a default 
notice. 
Argos said Mr Ss buy now pay later plan expired in July 2018  and he was then asked to 
make a minimum payment by the due date shown on each statement it had sent to him. The 
account fell into arrears and Argos issued a default  notice in September  2018. As Mr S failed 
to pay the amount due within the 14 days requested, a default was registered  on his credit 
file in November  2018. Argos said Mr S only notified  it he had moved address, and that he 
had financial  difficulties,  in November 2018,  after the default had been registered. It said that 
the default had been registered correctly and couldnt be removed from Mr Ss credit file.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought Argos had acted in line with industry 
guidelines and the terms and conditions  of the account. He said he couldnt  hold Argos  
responsible for not keeping Mr S informed about the missed payments and their 
consequences as he hadnt notified  it about his change of address until after the default 
notice had been issued. He also thought Argos had treated Mr S positively and fairly when 
he had made it aware of his financial difficulties.
Argos accepted  the outcome of the complaint but Mr S wasnt  satisfied and asked for it to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. Mr S accepted hed made a mistake but didnt think Argos  had 
acknowledged mistakes  it had made and hadnt  acted fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will be disappointing  to Mr S 
but having done so I find that I agree with the investigator and for largely the same reasons.
I can understand why Mr S is upset at having his account defaulted - particularly if he 
thought hed set up a direct debit and was unaware  his account was in arrears. Ive no 
reason to doubt that Mr S thought hed set up a direct debit to pay for the television or that 
the subsequent occupant of his address had agreed  to forward all his mail to him. That may 
be the case, but the evidence shows that letters and statements were sent to Mr S at the 
address hed provided. And Argos cant be blamed for the failings of a third party delivery 
service  if there were  any such  failings.  
Mr S knew  that hed set up a buy now pay later plan and should have known that he needed 
to make payments  towards it after it ended. He might have thought hed set up a direct debit 
to pay for it but theres no evidence hed done  that. As far as Argos  was concerned,  a 
television had been supplied to Mr S and it was entitled to be paid for it. Account reminders 
Ref: DRN45062802and a default notice were  sent to the last known address Mr S had supplied  and he didnt 
respond.
Mr S was more than three months behind  with his payments when Argos defaulted his 
account. So I dont  think Argos  did anything wrong  in defaulting the account when it did, and 
it acted in line with industry guidelines.  
Mr S did contact Argos but that was after the default had been recorded.  Theres  no reason 
why it would have  been aware of Mr Ss financial difficulties until then. Once  it was aware  of 
those difficulties, it had a duty to act positively and sympathetically.  Argos  agreed a 
repayment plan with Mr S and hes said that he feels this is an amount he can afford. As 
such, I think Argos acted  fairly  and reasonably  once  it was aware  of Mr Ss financial  
difficulties.
So whilst I know this will come as a disappointment  to Mr S, I agree with the investigators 
view. Im sorry  about the impact the default  is having on Mr S - but its important that account  
behaviour is accurately recorded. As Argos hasnt done anything wrong, I cant  ask it to 
remove what is factually correct information.  And so Im unable  to uphold  this complaint.
There remains an option open to Mr S which  he may wish to consider. Credit reference  
agencies are able to post notices of correction. This is a notice which allows  a consumer to 
explain an entry on a credit file and the circumstances in which  it arose. So Mr S has the 
opportunity of submitting such a notice so prospective lenders can judge the whole context 
in which  the default arose.  
my final decision 
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4506280