K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her two life cover policies.
The complaint has been brought by a representative, who Ill refer to as Mr H.
background
I wrote  to both parties to explain my initial thoughts on this complaint. I said:
Mrs S was sold two life cover policies  in 2011.  The first was set up in April and, 
depending how and when she died, it provided about  £3,400 worth of cover for a 
monthly premium of £20. The second was set up only a few months  later in July 2011  
and it provided about  £1,500 worth of cover for a monthly premium  of £10. 
The product  literature set out how the policy(s) worked, what benefits  would  be 
payable and the cancellation rights. I dont think there  is any dispute from Mrs S, or 
her representative, about this. But rather they argue that Mrs S was told she needed  
to take out these plans to cover the cost of her funeral as it wouldnt be possible for it 
to be arranged until a grant of probate had been obtained in order for her assets to 
be released.
Ive carefully considered  this point. And although  the paperwork shows the policies 
were sold on non-advised basis, Im inclined to believe Mrs S testimony that she was 
mis-led to think she needed  the policies to cover  her funeral costs. I therefore  think  
the policies were mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs S has received advice from Nationwide  about her financial affairs both before 
and after the life policies were set up. The sale review documents  from 2002, 2004,  
2006 and 2011  show Mrs S didnt have any immediate family  or dependants  and 
that she didnt  any outstanding debts.  Its also consistently recorded  that Mrs S didnt 
have a need for any protection  products and she didnt want  to receive advice in this 
area.
A financial review that took place in October 2011  shows Mrs S investment portfolio 
was worth about £220,000. Of which about £57,000  (26%) was held in cash  prior to 
receiving investment advice. Im therefore satisfied Mrs S had sufficient funds 
available to pay for her funeral costs when the policies were sold.
Its possible Mrs S may have wanted the policies to pay for the funeral costs rather  
than it come from her existing assets. But I dont think that seems likely here. This is 
because, as Ive established, Mrs S didnt have  any immediate family or dependants.  
Nor did she have any outstanding  debts  and the amount  she held in cash  wouldve 
easily covered such  costs. So I dont think it wouldve  been  a significant priority  to 
protect the value of her estate from what wouldve been a proportionally low cost.
I also think its relevant to consider that Mrs S repeatedly turned down the opportunity 
to receive protection advice in the financial reviews. So I think its unlikely she 
wouldve sought out life cover through  the branch on not one but two occasions.  I 
think, on balance,  its more likely she was encouraged to take out the policies by 
being led to believe  she needed them to cover  her funeral expenses, having been 
Ref: DRN48880582told it wouldnt be possible for her funeral to be arranged until Grant  of Probate  had 
been obtained in order for her assets to be released.
I understand from Nationwides website however that this isnt the case.  And that 
Nationwide will release  funds from an estate, without a grant of probate  or 
representation being obtained, to pay funeral expenses  directly with the parlour upon 
receipt of an invoice. So I think Mrs S was mis-led  about this, which may have led to 
a belief that she needed the policies.
The product  literature explains how the policies  worked. But I cant  see it explains 
how the cash sum payable  in the event  of her death  would be treated  differently 
to the assets in her estate. I therefore  think its reasonable for Mrs S to have relied on 
the information she was provided in branch. So I can understand why she wouldve  
accepted what  she was told in good faith and not questioned it further  at the time.
To put things right I think  Nationwide should:
Refund the premiums  Mrs S paid for both policies.
Pay 8% simple interest from the date each premium was paid up to the date 
of settlement.
Pay £200 compensation for the trouble  and upset  this matter has caused.
Mr H accepted my findings.
Nationwide however disagreed. They reiterated the policies  were sold on a non-advised 
basis. So no fact find was carried  out as the seller was only required to provide Mrs S with 
information to be able to make  an informed decision.  The seller also wouldnt have had 
access to Mrs S investment holdings  and so wouldnt  have known her full financial situation 
at the time the policies were sold. Nationwide  remained of the view that it was Mrs S choice 
to proceed with the plans and that she was responsible for ensuring the cover was 
appropriate for her needs. 
As both parties have  had the opportunity to respond  I can now proceed  to making a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from the outcome  I previously set out. Ill explain  why.
Ive taken in to account Nationwides  point that there wasnt a requirement to complete  a fact 
find and so the seller  wouldnt have known  Mrs S full financial position. But while  that might 
be true, I dont think it changes that the policies  provided very little benefit to Mrs S. She had 
significant cash on deposit with Nationwide, as well as her investment holdings, to cover  
funeral expenses and she had no immediate  family  or dependants. And given shed 
repeatedly turned down the opportunity to receive advice about protection  products at 
financial reviews over the years, Im not persuaded she wouldve sought out life cover  in 
branch or applied  for it without  being encouraged to do so.
I remain of the view that its more likely Mrs S was mis-led to believe she needed the policies 
to cover her funeral expenses, having been  told it wouldnt be possible for her funeral to be 
Ref: DRN48880583arranged until Grant of Probate had been  obtained in order for her assets to be released. As 
Nationwide has processes in place to allow funds to be withdrawn from an account  to cover 
funeral expenses, without the need  for Grant of Probate being obtained, I think  the policies 
were mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs S complaint.
Nationwide Building  Society should:
Refund the premiums  Mrs S paid for both policies.
Pay 8% simple interest from the date each premium was paid up to the date of 
settlement.
Pay £200 compensation for the trouble  and upset  this matter has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4888058