K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied by Lex Autolease  Ltd.
background
In October  2016 Mr M was supplied with a brand new car and entered into a contract hire 
agreement with Lex Autolease.
In January 2018 Mr M noticed a burning smell. The car was recovered  and work  was carried 
out on the brakes. This didnt  resolve  the burning  smell so further investigations  were  carried 
out. The garage found that the clutch had been worn  and said the clutch and flywheel 
needed replacing. The garage advised Mr M that the repairs werent covered under the 
warranty because the damage had been caused  by driver style.
Mr M was unhappy that he was being  asked to pay for repairs and contacted  Lex Autolease 
to reject the car. Lex Autolease told Mr M that he would have to pay early termination fees 
amounting to 50% of his remaining rentals. It also said he was required to have the car in 
working order prior to termination.
Mr M complained to Lex Autolease.
Lex Autolease arranged for an independent inspection of the car. The inspector said the 
clutch and flywheel components had overheated and suggested  that the most probable 
cause was abnormal driving technique or the type of use the car had been subjected  to.
The car remained at the dealership for 10 weeks. During this time, Mr M continued to make 
monthly payments.  He was provided with a courtesy car for 2 weeks.  Mr M paid the repair 
costs of £2689.32.
Mr M subsequently  complained to this service. He wants a refund of the repair  costs,  a 
refund of 2 months payments and to be able to terminate the agreement  without any fees.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She felt there  was a durability issue with the clutch 
taking into account  the age and mileage of the car. She said Lex Autolease should refund 
the costs of repairs and 2 months payments and pay compensation.
Lex Autolease didnt agree. It said that a clutch wasnt  manufactured  to withstand the 
excessive amounts of hear generated when it wasnt disengaged  fully. It also said that the 
expert technical opinion had been  disregarded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The law implies a term that the car must be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory  
quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account  
all of the relevant  circumstances such as (amongst other things)  the age and mileage of the 
car. I would expect a brand new car such as that supplied to Mr M to be of a very high 
standard.
Ref: DRN44183352Mr M and Lex Autolease disagree  about whether the car was of satisfactory  quality. In order 
to reach  a decision,  I ned to consider all of the available evidence and determine whether 
the car had a fault which was present or developing at the point of supply, or whether  the 
issue with the clutch was caused by wear and tear.
Mr M experienced issues with the clutch approximately 12 months after the point of supply. 
During this time the car had covered 12,365  miles.
An engineers report can help in deciding whether or not a fault was present at the point  of 
supply. The independent inspection in this case concluded that the clutch and flywheel had 
overheated and said the most  probable cause would  be due to abnormal  operator  driving  
technique or the type of use the car has been subjected to.
Ive considered the independent report carefully  but I have some  concerns about it. It doesnt 
definitely conclude  that the fault was caused  by driver style. It says this is the most probable 
cause, but it doesnt explain why the fault is consistent with driver  style. Theres  no 
information to suggest that Mr M drives in such a way that would damage the clutch,  or that 
the car has been  used for purposes which would wear the clutch.
Ive also got concerns about this type of fault occurring in a car of this age and mileage.  Ive 
thought about whether Mr Ms driving style couldve caused such a degree of damage to the 
clutch over a 12 months period.
I agree  that driving style can affect the life of a clutch. Premature clutch wear can be caused  
by poor habits such as riding the clutch, using the clutch to hold the car on a slope and 
lingering on the clutch when changing  gear.  I cant say whether Mr M has any of these 
driving habits or not. But even if he does, I think its unlikely that he wouldve been able to 
destroy a clutch in this space of time.  Even  with poor driving  habits, Id expect a clutch to last 
more than 12,000 miles.
On balance I dont  think its likely  that Mr Ms driving style or use of the car couldve caused 
a brand new clutch to fail within 12 months /12,000 miles. I think its more  likely that there  
was a fault with the clutch at the point of supply.
Ive taken into account the points  made  by Lex Autolease about the technical evidence  being  
disregarded but I dont think this is the case. Ive had regard to this evidence but Im not 
satisfied that its conclusive as to the cause of the damage. On balance, given the age and 
mileage of the car, I think  its more likely that the clutch was faulty  at the point of supply.  Lex 
Autolease should  therefore accept responsibility  for the cost of repairs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Lex Aotolease  Limited must:
Refund Mr M the cost of repairs £2689.32
Refund Mr M 2 months payments
Pay compensation of £150 for loss of enjoyment  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Emma Davy
Ref: DRN44183353ombudsman
Ref: DRN4418335