K821x#15complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
Its been agreed Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the insurer should 
accept responsibility  for this complaint.  Although FICL didnt  actually sell the PPI, to 
keep things simple  Ill refer just to FICL  in my decision.
background
Mrs S was sold a PPI policy when she applied for a store card in 1998. She says she had a 
medical condition  when she was sold the cover.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Ss complaint didnt think  FICL had made  it clear  to her 
the PPI didnt cover accident and sickness claims caused by her medical condition. And our 
adjudicator didnt think Mrs S wouldve bought the PPI if this had been made clear. 
FICL says if Mrs Ss condition  was manageable,  it was unlikely to cause her to have enough 
time off work for her to claim on the policy. So FICL thinks  Mrs Ss medical condition  may not 
have affected  her decision to buy the PPI. Its because of this that Mrs Ss complaint has 
come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had a duty to give Mrs S enough  clear information about  the PPI so she could make  an 
informed decision about whether she wanted it. From what Ive seen, I dont  think FICL did 
this. And I think if FICL had given Mrs S the clear information it shouldve, she wouldnt have 
bought the PPI.
Its likely  the policy Mrs S was sold wouldnt have covered her for accident and sickness 
claims caused by any medical condition she had when  she bought it. Mrs S says had a 
medical condition  at the time.
Although Mrs S hasnt  given us much information about her condition, shes been consistent 
with us and with FICL about having  it. She referred to it in her original complaint to FICL  but, 
because she hadnt said shed had any time off work for it, FICL decided it wasnt an area of 
concern and didnt  ask her any questions about  it. 
As Ive already  noted, in response to our adjudicators view on Mrs Ss complaint, FICL  
questions whether Mrs Ss condition  wouldve  stopped  her going ahead with the PPI. 
But based  on what Mrs S has said about her condition  and bearing in mind  FICLs  
investigation of it has been quite limited,  I think the exclusion its likely  the policy had for 
accident and sickness claims  arising  from known medical conditions wouldve mattered to 
Mrs S. But there was no information about  it on the application form she signed. And 
I havent seen  anything else to show me FICL  made it clear to Mrs S at the time.
Ref: DRN44045612I dont think its likely  Mrs S wouldve gone  ahead with the PPI if shed  known she wasnt  
likely to have been covered if shed needed  time off work because  of her medical condition. 
It follows that I think Mrs S has lost out because of what FICL  has done wrong and so it 
should put things right.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs S in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs S wouldve owed when she closed her store  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs S owed when she closed her 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs S wouldve owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs S would  have owed each month without  PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs S paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs S 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year
D.FICL should tell Mrs S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs S a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint  and direct  Financial  Insurance  
Company Limited  to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4404561