K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Nationwide  Building Society  rejected his section 75 claim when he 
complained about the service he received from a tour operator.
background
In September  2016 Mr I purchased a 40 week Africa expedition holiday and paid with his 
Nationwide credit card. The cost of the expedition was £4,816.00  (excluding a local payment 
of USD 2,650 which was paid on arrival). Mr I feels that the tour operator misrepresented  the 
itinerary and breached its contract  with him.
Mr I has identified a number of issues about which he is unhappy which  include the 
following:
The trip did not visit all of the places published in the itinerary
The published timetable wasnt followed
The trip didnt  offer the free time published  in the itinerary
Changes were  made to the published  itinerary at short notice
Participants on the trip were treated differently
Changes were  made to the itinerary to suit other participants
Monies were repaid  to some participants but not to others
Food was not always provided
The group  food shopping  experience wasnt available
Lifts were given to strangers putting the health and safety of participants at risk
The published number  of staff were not present for the duration of the trip
The trip was managed  by a tour leader who lacked  experience  in travelling in Africa
Mr I had to arrange  his own transport and food at times
Mr I is particularly unhappy  that the itinerary was changed so that the trip no longer visited 
Mozambique. He complained to the tour operator  in May 2017 (whilst still travelling) and said 
he was unhappy  about this change  to the itinerary. Mr I asked the tour operator to reinstate 
the visit to Mozambique or to give him a full refund. The tour operator told Mr I that the 
itinerary was subject  to change and refused to issue a refund.
Mr I complained to Nationwide and requested a refund under section 75 of the Consumer  
Credit Act 1974. In its final response Nationwide said that there  hadnt  been  a 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract  by the tour operator.
Mr I wasnt happy with Nationwides response  so he complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. The investigator said there hadnt been a 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract.
Mr I didnt agree. He felt that his contract with the tour operator had been breached. He said 
he had been given misleading information about  the trip and gave some examples of what  
he said were breaches of contract  including the presence of only one member of staff on the 
tour instead  of two for the first 5 months  of the trip and the lack of experience of the tour 
leader who took over in April 2017.
Ref: DRN46044412my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act requires a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (DCS). 
Mr I paid for his trip with his Nationwide credit card so Im satisfied that there is a DCS 
agreement. This means that Mr I has a like claim against Nationwide  as he does against  the 
tour operator  for misrepresentation and/or breach of contract. Mr I claims both 
misrepresentation and breach of contract.  
Misrepresentation and breach of contract
Mr I booked an expedition with the tour operator  and said that his decision to do so was 
influenced by the published  information about the trip including amongst other  things the 
itinerary and the number and level of experience of staff.
Mr I experienced a number of issues with the trip which Ive summarised already. He feels  
that the itinerary was misrepresented and that the changes to the itinerary (along with the 
other issues he has complained about) amounted to a breach of contract.
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement  of fact that causes the consumer to go ahead 
with the contract.
A breach of contract  is where the supplier  (in this case the tour operator) fails to do what the 
contract says it must do, either expressly  or by implication.
Ive looked at the pre departure information which  was made  available to Mr I. I need to 
decide whether  a statement in the pre departure information resulted in Mr I deciding to book 
his expedition  with this particular tour operator.  
Ive looked at the itinerary which was published on the tour operators website. Ive also 
looked at the pre departure information  Before you go which  was sent to Mr I. Ive also 
taken into account  some emails which were  sent by the tour operator to Mr I before the trip 
departed.
There are a number of tour operators  who offer overland expeditions  to Africa. These types 
of expeditions  vary in length, price, itinerary, date of departure, itinerary and level of 
accommodation. Its fair to say that the tour operator who supplied  Mr Is trip is amongst the 
operators who offer the lowest cost expeditions  of this type. Mr I hasnt said which particular 
factor(s) influenced his decision  to book  with this particular operator.  I understand that Mr I 
was particularly keen  to visit Mozambique and was disappointed  when  the itinerary  was 
changed. But there a number of similar expeditions which include Mozambique in the 
itinerary. And the trip which  Mr I booked  was only due to spend a very short  time in 
Mozambique in the context of the trip overall.  Because of this I think there are other factors  
which are likely to have  influenced Mr I when he booked the trip.
One of Mr Is main complaints is that the itinerary was changed  and that as a result he didnt 
get to visit some of the countries that he wanted to. I can see that a number  of countries are 
published in the itinerary. However, at the start of the detailed itinerary  it says:
Ref: DRN46044413Please note that out itineraries are not set in stone and can be subject to change.
I can also see that under the Itinerary Changes  section  of the travel documentation it says:
Due to the unpredictable nature of this expedition it is not always possible to follow  the 
exact itinerary as set out below. We will always endeavour to visit all of the places  listed  and 
often more that are not. All the information regarding the itinerary  is given in good faith and is 
subject to change.
The itinerary  formed part of Mr Is contract with the tour operator.  However  because  Mr I was 
told that the itinerary was subject to change,  Im unable to say that the subsequent changes  
to the itinerary  amounted  to a breach of contract.
Mr I feels that the tour operator breached the contract by not providing a sufficient number of 
staff and/or  by providing a member  of staff with insufficient experience.
I can see that in the pre departure information headed Oasis Crew it says we usually have 
two crew. But I dont  think  that this amounts to a contractual term that there will always be 
two members of staff. I appreciate that Mr I has said that there was only one member of staff 
for part of the trip. Mr I hasnt given any examples of how this affected the trip and I havent  
seen any information  to suggest  that any of the members of staff involved in the trip lacked 
experience in leading expeditions. Because of this, Im unable  to conclude that the issues 
about which Mr I has complained relating to staff amounted to a breach of contract.
Mr I has complained that the group  food shopping experience wasnt  available to him. I can 
see that in the itinerary  under Meals and Cook Groups it says:
When on the road or camping we usually cook using gas or over open  fires in a rota system 
and you can expect to cook  in a group of two or three people  once  every  ten days 
depending on the number of people  on the trip and whereabouts you are. Your cook  group 
will have to decide on what  to cook,  utilise stocks from the truck store and locally  obtain 
ingredients from market, shops etc. and rustle up a meal
Mr I says that the tour leader did most  of the shopping. I havent seen any information  to 
suggest that Mr I was prevented from going shopping and/or participating  in cooking. And I 
cant be satisfied  that the group shopping  experience was one of the determining  factors in 
Mr Is decision  to book the trip, so Im unable to say that this amounted to a 
misrepresentation.  
Mr I has said that on some  occasions  he had to buy his own food despite the fact that he 
was led to believe that all meals were included. From the information available  it appears 
that Mr I often didnt eat breakfast with the rest of the group. Mr I has acknowledged  that 
breakfast was available but that it was served  at a time in the morning when he didnt want 
to eat it. Based on this I cant fairly say that food wasnt available.  In addition, Ive taken into 
account the pre departure  information called During the Day which says:
As a guide driving  days may start at about 7am.
Based on this I think Mr I might reasonably have anticipated that breakfast would be served 
early in the morning.
Ref: DRN46044414Ive taken all of the points raised by Mr I into consideration. Whilst I appreciate  that the 
expedition fell short of Mr Is expectations,  Im unable to conclude that there has been  a 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract. Although Mr Is experience differed in some 
respects from the published information,  Im satisfied that the information makes it clear  that 
the expedition is flexible in nature and subject  to change.
Mr I has complained about bullying and about the tour leader  not giving lifts to locals.  Ive 
noted Mr Is points but these dont amount to a misrepresentation or a breach of contract.
In conclusion, and whilst  Im sorry to hear that Mr I didnt enjoy his trip as much as hed 
hoped, Im unable  to conclude that there has been a breach of contract  or a 
misrepresentation. For the reasons  given  I wont be asking  Nationwide to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4604441