K820x#14complaint
Mr H, on behalf of Mrs H, complains about  how Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited 
(Lloyds) handled Mrs Hs property insurance claim following a flood.
background
Because so much has happened since claim notification I will not repeat everything  instead, 
Ive briefly summarised the background to this complaint.
Mrs H had a buildings  insurance policy with Lloyds. Her property  contents  were insured with 
a different insurer.
In November 2009, water entered  Mrs Hs property and caused damage.  But the claim was 
made late due to Mrs Hs personal  circumstances  and reported to Lloyds ten months later in 
September 2010.
The first site visit revealed the cause of water into Mrs Hs property was the overflow of local 
water courses, field and public drainage.
Damage to the property was considerable. Reports made during the claim mention the 
extensive damage to the kitchen, utility room,  hall, bathroom, sitting room,  lounge, dining 
room, stairs and landing.  Flooring  coverings and various contents  were saturated with 
evidence of bacterial  growth. 
The initial work included  stripping the property (removing walls, ceilings and floors) and 
packing contents from the ground  floor for storage.
Drying out the property  started soon after the stripping out works  were completed. This took 
many months/years to complete. Despite the prolonged  period of drying, the moisture levels 
at the property didnt reduce to an acceptable  level. It was thought that a possible escape  of 
water from a fractured pipe from behind a gas fire may also have contributed  to the 
dampness in the property.
During 2012, there was a further set back as a storm damaged  the roof and Mrs H had to 
make a claim for it be repaired.
The property was eventually certified dry by 2013.
Mrs H agreed  the schedule of works in July 2013  and repair work started.
It became evident in September 2013  that field mice  and other  pests has entered  the 
property and damaged some  contents that were on the upper floor of the property. Mr H 
feels Lloyds didnt do enough to seal off this area.
Lloyds has provided  documentation showing the difficulties it had communicating  and 
obtaining agreement  from Mrs H on the schedule of works, kitchen and bathroom choices. 
There were disputes over the allowances for the fittings and Mrs H told the kitchen installers 
not to deliver the kitchen. Lloyds says this has all added to the delays in the claim.
At the beginning  of 2014, progress was being made on repairs.  But Mrs H was yet to pick 
decorative finishes  and because of this the claim could not progress, the contractor 
Ref: DRN47841402terminated the contract. A cash settlement was suggested with local contractors completing 
the unfinished work. The settlement would  include  an allowance  for a surveyor  to manage 
the repairs.
However, a cash settlement couldnt be agreed. Mrs H wanted the policy  sum insured as a 
cash settlement which Lloyds wouldnt agree to.
In September  2014, roof repairs were agreed.
In 2015 Mrs H notified Lloyds she was unhappy with the deterioration of the property 
including vegetation  in the guttering and the garden  being overgrown.
In 2016 most of the work  was completed  and in 2017 some  further  snagging issues were 
raised with Lloyds.
Mr H, on behalf of Mrs H, complained to Lloyds.  He said the claim has been  ongoing  for far 
too long, repairs  were poor and further damage had occurred.
In response to the complaint Lloyds  said it felt that every effort  had been made to 
accommodate Mrs H. And there  were occasions when it had been difficult to contact Mrs H 
and the claim had to be put on hold pending  a response from her. But it recognised it didnt  
manage the claim as proactively as it couldve  done and offered £1,500 compensation for 
this. It also mentioned that it had items  stored  for Mrs H that must  be returned to her as the 
house is habitable.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He agreed that the claim wasnt  proactively 
managed and couldve been concluded  in 2016 when most of the works  were finished. He 
felt more couldve been done  to finalise the claim at this point. But he said the £1,500 
compensation already offered by Lloyds was fair in the circumstances. 
Mrs H didnt agree, she felt the £1,500  was completely unfair and didnt compensate  her for 
all the trouble the insurer had caused  her. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H, on behalf of Mrs H, has told us where  he thinks things went wrong and why Mrs H is 
unhappy. Mrs H has also spoken  with our investigator to explain what happened. Lloyds has 
also told us its side of the story and provided  detailed notes to show  what happened during 
the eight years the claim was ongoing.
There are several parts to Mrs Hs complaint, and I will address each part separately.
Further damage
Mr H, on behalf of Mrs H, says that some of the contents that were in situ on the upper floor 
were damaged by mice because it wasnt sealed  off properly.
Ref: DRN47841403But from what I've seen, its Lloyds responsibility  to dry out the home  and remove  the 
damaged contents  - which  it did. Since  then Mrs Hs upstairs contents were damaged by 
mice, but I've not been given any expert opinions or evidence  to suggest Lloyds could've 
foreseen this or should've removed all of these unaffected items as a precaution.  I say this 
taking into account  that any items removed would need to be kept in storage, and in my 
experience, it'd be unusual and unnecessary to clear a home  when only some rooms are 
affected. So, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  needed to do anything more.  
 
Property maintenance
Mrs H says that no one maintained the garden  and its in such  a state that the property cant 
be sold because no one will offer on it.
Mrs H holds an insurance policy with Lloyds. Not a property maintenance contract. Im not 
persuaded that its the insurers responsibility to carry  out property maintenance during the 
claim.
If access to the property and grounds  was needed to carry out maintenance, such  as garden 
maintenance to help with a property sale, this couldve  been arranged with the insurer.
Claim handling
Its not unusual  for claims like these to take time to resolve. And I understand for Mrs H, it 
was a very frustrating and difficult time while the damage was being  repaired. 
I don't at all underestimate the considerable distress that this claim  has caused Mrs H over 
the years. It's clear  it's been  a very upsetting and disrupting time for her. 
But from what Ive seen  I think the claim was often put into a position  in which it was difficult 
to progress, due to Mrs H not feeling able to be as involved with it as she would've needed 
to be. And I dont  believe either complaint party wanted this complaint to drag on. 
Understandably Mrs H wanted the property  fixed and returned to her. Lloyds would have 
wanted to keep costs down.  So, it was in the interest  of both complaint parties to have this 
claim concluded as soon as it was possible.
I wont hold a business accountable for the natural running of a claim. But Ive considered 
whether Lloyds actions or inactions  meant the claim  took longer  than it should  to conclude.
The delay in claim  notification meant  that the damage was far greater than it wouldve been 
if a claim had been notified when damage occurred. 
Drying out the property  took a considerable amount of time. But once the property  was dry in 
2013, I feel that Lloyds drove the claim forward reasonably. 
I think Mrs H, couldve  returned to her property as it was habitable. But Mr H did not wish his 
mother to return until all work  was done including snagging issues.
However, Lloyds admit  that from 2016, things could  have  gone better, and the claim wasnt  
proactively managed from this point. It felt the claim could have been concluded here. This is 
why its recommended compensation of £1,500.
Ref: DRN47841404I agree  with my investigator that this amount is reasonable to recognise Lloyds could have 
done more from 2016 onwards to draw  a line under the claim and return  Mrs H to her 
property.
Poor repairs
I can see that there were  snagging issues. And I understand why Mrs H feels the repairs 
were poor when the repairs that had been done  had to be made good.
Given the extent  of the repairs,  snagging  issues were to be expected. And I can see that the 
snagging issues were  noted and addressed.
So, I dont think Lloyds  did anything wrong  here and I wont be asking it to anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4784140