K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mr T holds with Barclays Bank UK PLC. When  presented 
to us, the complaint comprised two overarching  elements, which I summarise as follows:
Mr T was unaware there was a third part to his mortgage  the mortgage current  
account (MCA)  reserve  which  was held on an interest-only basis.
Barclays had turned  down his request to transfer  the balance he owes  on the MCA 
reserve onto a normal mortgage product and switch it to a repayment basis.
Ill comment further on the scope of my final decision, and what it covers, in due course.
background
Mr T took the mortgage out in 2008,  and then he borrowed further money  in 2009 when he 
moved house. The mortgage Mr T has comes with a linked MCA which  gives him a flexible 
way to borrow money up to a set credit limit, this is called the reserve. 
In 2018 Mr T complained  that hed only recently  found out about the interest-only  MCA 
reserve and that had left him shocked as he thought  he had a repayment mortgage  that 
would be fully paid off at the end of the term. He also said Barclays had rejected his 
application to convert  it to repayment, on the grounds of affordability,  whilst still increasing 
the credit  limit.
When the case came to us, we first had to assess  how much  of the complaint our rules 
would allow us to consider. This culminated  in a decision from a fellow  ombudsman  in 
February of this year which reached  the following  conclusions:
we have no power to look into the first part of Mr Ts complaint because  hed brought  it 
too late under our rules; but
we could look into the second  part, as that related  to a recent matter.
 
One of our investigators  considered the merits of the second part of the complaint, and in 
May this year issued  her view of it. She wasnt persuaded it should be upheld. Mr T asked 
for the entire  complaint  to be reconsidered  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr T wont take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  
Its apparent that Mr T is unhappy that weve  decided we cant look into the first (and main)  
part of his complaint, and I do understand  his frustration. Ive looked  at what  my ombudsman  
colleague said about what we can and cant consider,  and Ive looked at what  Mr T has said 
since. Having done so, I agree with the decision  my colleague reached in February about the 
Ref: DRN41928112limit of our powers. For that reason I wont be making any further comment  about the first 
part of Mr Ts complaint; not because I dont want to deal with Mr Ts concerns about the first 
part, but simply because  I dont have the power to do so under our rules.
To be clear, and to ensure theres no ambiguity, my review of this complaint is confined to 
the point that Barclays turned down Mr Ts requests to transfer  the balance  he owes on the 
MCA reserve onto a normal  mortgage  product and switch it to a repayment basis.
I understand - at the time he took this mortgage out - Mr T was a branch manager for 
Barclays and that he holds the Certificate in Mortgage Advice  and Practice  qualification. So 
I apologise if any of the explanation I provide below is something he is already aware of. I 
provide this explanation  for completeness and in case it helps any other  reader there may be 
when this decision is published.
The MCA reserve is an interest-only overdraft  on the mortgage current  account. As with any 
overdraft, it is granted at Barclays discretion,  and is repayable on demand. 
Customers can pay money  into the MCA if they want to, and operate it in credit.  But Mr Ts 
MCA isnt in credit and so it operates as an overdraft facility with debit interest accruing on 
the outstanding balance.  The debit  balance on the MCA  is secured by the mortgage granted 
to Barclays by Mr T. So when his repayment mortgage comes to an end, for example if Mr T 
sells or remortgages his property, or (if the mortgage runs to its full term) when the final 
payment is made, any debit balance on the MCA is repayable  in full at that time.
Mr T is free to repay the overdraft, in part or in full, at any time.  Hes not tied to only covering 
the interest charged, and theres nothing stopping him making extra payments to the account 
to, in effect, make it function like a repayment mortgage.
The interest rate charged on the MCA is unrelated to the interest rate charged on the 
mortgage. Ive seen nothing in the mortgage  documentation to suggest that the interest  rate 
on the MCA would be the same  as the mortgage interest rate, or that Barclays is obliged to 
offer a preferential mortgage rate for that borrowing. The rate is higher to reflect  the flexible 
nature of the account.
I understand Mr T feels that Barclays hasnt treated him fairly because  it turned down his 
requests to consolidate  the MCA reserve into a normal mortgage account. Those requests 
were so that interest  would be chargeable at a preferential rate and the debt would be 
converted to being held on a repayment basis. 
Barclays turned the requests down because  it said the extra monthly  commitment  was 
unaffordable for Mr T based on his income and expenditure.  Having considered  everything 
thats been provided by Barclays and Mr T, Im satisfied thats a reasonable decision.
If the MCA reserve debt was moved to a normal repayment mortgage account then Mr T 
would be contractually  obliged to make higher payments each month.  And if any of those 
payments were missed,  paid late or underpaid then his mortgage would be in arrears, his 
credit file would  be affected  and his home  at risk of repossession.  By keeping the MCA 
reserve running as it is Mr T isnt committed to those  higher payments. Instead he can make 
higher payments as and when he feels he can afford them, without  worrying  out the 
contractual commitment  to make them every month.
Ref: DRN41928113The product  allows the MCA reserve limit to increase as the mortgage balance decreases  
without affordability checks being needed;  thats  an underlying feature of the product. If Mr T 
would prefer his MCA reserve  limit isnt increased now or in the future  then thats something 
he can ask Barclays to stop happening.
Im satisfied the decision not to agree to this change was one that Barclays  was entitled to 
make as a matter of its commercial discretion, and so I dont uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4192811