K820x#14complaint
Mrs S who represents a firm who I will call S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has 
treated the firm incorrectly by withdrawing  its overdraft. 
Where I say in this decision Mrs S has told us things or has taken a certain stance, it is 
always on behalf of S that she has done this not in her own right. But for ease of reading I 
have not mentioned this each and every  time it happens.
background
Mrs S told us S has an overdraft. She suggested there was an ongoing agreement between 
S and Barclays that this overdraft should remain in place  until 2031. She was unable  to show  
a written agreement had been  made on these terms. Rather she suggested  this had been 
agreed in discussions  with Ss previous  relationship manager at Barclays. I will call this 
relationship manager Ms D. She indicated that Barclays  had reneged  on this agreement by 
asking S to repay  the overdraft  in 2018.
Further, Mrs S suggested  even if Barclays was entitled to withdraw  the overdraft, which  she 
does not accept that it is, the way it went about things was all wrong.  This was because 
Barclays had not given sufficient thought to the nature of Ss business  and the impact 
removing this funding  would have on it. She said the decision from Barclays  had come  out 
of the blue. Mrs S also complained that the behaviour of Ss current relationship  manager  
had been unprofessional.  I will call the current relationship manager Mr T.
Moreover, Mrs S told us that Barclayss decision to remove  the overdraft was also flawed 
because it was based on a lack of understanding about the firms accounting procedures 
and financial  footing.
In addition Mrs S pointed to a recent  announcement from Barclays  Chief  Executive about 
how it intended to support  firms  like S. She told us that Ss stance was that Barclays 
behaviour had not been in line with what the Chief Executive had promised  to do for firms 
like it. 
Barclays take on the complaint was that it had done nothing wrong. It had acted in line with 
the relevant terms  and conditions of the account.  These allowed it to ask for the overdraft to 
be repaid on demand and that is what it had done.  It didnt  agree  there  was ever an 
unwritten ongoing agreement  between  it and S along the lines that Mrs S talked about.
Barclays said it had taken  the decision to withdraw  the overdraft because  it had concerns 
about Ss continuing ability to service its overdraft. It explained how it had assessed  Ss 
financial position. When it had done this, it was aware of how Ss manages  its accounts. It 
thought this showed it did have a good  grasp of Ss accounting procedures  and financial 
situation. It didnt  accept that Mr T had behaved unprofessionally.
Mrs S brought Ss complaint to our service since the parties couldnt reach  an agreement 
about how to move forward.
Our investigator looked at the complaint. In short,  she thought on balance  Barclays  was 
entitled to act in the way that it had. She didnt  agree  that Mr T had acted in an 
unprofessional way. For all of these reasons, she didnt recommend upholding Ss 
complaint.
Ref: DRN46011202Barclays accepted  this recommendation. Mrs S on behalf of S did not. In summary, she 
responded to say we had not understood the complaint.  It wasnt  about what the standard  
terms and conditions said. The standard terms and conditions were irrelevant they did not 
apply. Rather, it was the terms  of the verbal  agreement that we needed to think about. She 
also reiterated Ss previous stance. 
We could take this complaint no further  at this stage. So I was asked to take a fresh look at 
the complaint  and come to a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
I can see that Mrs S on behalf  of S has makes  a number of detailed  points in support of this 
complaint. Barclays does the same in response to the complaint. I have read and considered  
everything that both Mrs S and Barclays have sent to this service.  Ive not responded in 
similar detail.  As an informal dispute resolution  service, our role is to reach  a fair and 
reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me 
to respond to every point  made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue.
the overdraft
Mrs S tells us that S and Barclays had come to an agreement that the overdraft would not be 
withdrawn before 2031. She tells us at the time S complained this agreement was still in 
force. Mrs S doesnt suggest there is any written agreement. Rather she says it was a verbal 
agreement between the parties.  She suggests Ms D should be asked about all of this. 
Further, she indicates that the way the account had been operated backed up what  S said 
about the verbal agreement.
Barclays on the other hand  has talked to Ms D who said no such  agreement  had been  set 
up. It also says a personal guarantee of this kind would be unprecedented. It then points 
out that the overdraft was renewed  annually and when that happened a letter was sent out 
to S with the relevant terms  and conditions. These set out that the overdraft is repayable on 
demand.
In the circumstances, I find it unlikely that the parties  had an ongoing verbal  agreement  in 
place. Barclays tells us such  a deal would have  been so far outside its normal approach as 
to be unprecedented.  I can see, why it says that by its nature an overdraft is a product that is 
designed to be repayable  on demand.  
I also might  have expected S to have objected  to receiving letters that said the opposite of 
what Mrs S says had been agreed. Yet Barclays records show S was sent such  a letter  in 
June 2018 when the overdraft was renewed.  Barclayss records show that a renewal letter  
was sent every year. I find that is likely  in the circumstances  given that seems to be its 
normal policy. As far as I can see S never raised  any objection to these letters.  Mrs S rejects 
Ref: DRN46011203the suggestion that that S ever received the June  2018 letter. But since  it is correctly 
addressed I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible  if S never received it. 
I cant disregard the terms and conditions of the account as Mrs S invites  me to do. Because 
it follows if I dont agree, on balance S had contracted with Barclays on bespoke  terms, I 
also then find it likely  the usual written terms and conditions are what  apply here. That being  
so it is reasonable  that Barclays should, as a starting point, be able to rely on them.  These 
permit Barclays to remove the overdraft. Although I can see what it has suggested is paying 
down the overdraft over a period of time or taking out a loan. 
notice
One of the things that Mrs S objects to is that she says the decision to remove the overdraft  
came out of the blue. But I cannot fairly say that this decision  came out to the blue. Barclays  
records show it contacted  S in July 2018 about the situation telling it that they needed to 
discuss the overdraft.  I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of that record. 
I realise this might have  been confusing because the overdraft had been seemingly 
automatically renewed in June 2018. However,  this decision to automatically  renew  the 
overdraft was then overturned. Barclays explains that the reason for this turnaround was that 
in July 2018 Ss account appeared  on a credit monitoring  and control report due to its 
consistently heavy  overdraft utilisation The report identifies problematic behaviour and 
warning signs from bank  account operation and notifies Relationship Managers, so 
appropriate support  can be provided.  
Barclays is entitled to set up internal processes to help it spot customers  who may be having 
money troubles.  Nothing I have seen suggests S was treated unfairly  as a result of Barclays  
making this commercial choice.
From the information on the file the parties then had discussions. First, Mr T tried to explore 
renewing the overdraft  temporarily. When this failed Barclays told S it was going to remove 
the overdraft and this would  happen  in December 2018. Although it appears Barclays is still 
providing ongoing financial support to S up until the current date.
Another point  Mrs S makes is that Barclays has not given proper notice  to S. I dont think 
that she is referring to the notice provisions in the terms and conditions. That would not 
make sense because  Ss point is that the standard terms  and conditions  never applied to it. 
Rather I think she is saying that given  the nature of Ss business Barclays did not act 
reasonably in that it did not give S enough  to time to put in place alternative  funding.
I think the standard terms and conditions did apply as I have already said. And Barclays  did 
give the notice  required by them. But I also think it might have been unreasonable if Barclays 
had removed the overdraft without giving  S time to sort something else out. But I think  S has 
been given sufficient opportunity to arrange  its affairs. I  can  see from the information I have 
got that S ought reasonably to have known  from at least December  2018  that Barclays was 
not willing to continue with the overdraft and intended to withdraw it. Indeed,  I can see S 
wrote to Barclays objecting to its proposal to remove the overdraft in December 2018. So 
while I dont doubt  S found Barclays decision an unwelcome distraction  from the work of this 
seemingly busy firm, I cant fairly agree  the notice S got was unreasonable.
Ss accounting practices and its financial status
Ref: DRN46011204Mrs S says Barclays  didnt understand the firms finances. She has provided  an explanation 
of how they worked.  Barclays says it did understand the situation  and it has given an 
explanation of its understanding, in particular in its final response letter. 
Ive looked at what they have both said. From what I can see Barclays did understand Ss 
financial arrangements.  It just came to a different conclusion  from S about the firms  ability to 
repay the debt with it. For these reasons I cant say Barclays has based its decision in part 
on a misunderstanding.
chief executives statement
I have looked  at the policy statement from Barclays Chief Executive. Amongst other things  it 
talks about Barclays  being prepared to help businesses  navigate the challenges and 
opportunities presented by events  such as Brexit. 
I cant see how Barclays taking an evidence based decision to withdraw  funding  from a 
business it thinks can no longer afford the level of borrowing it has, is incompatible with the 
policy statement from its Chief Executive.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S on behalf  of 
S to accept  or reject  my decision before 17 March 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4601120