K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in June 2008.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint and I will explain why.
Barclays has provided a copy of the credit agreement that it sent out to Mr C after his online 
application. Mr C has signed separately  on this agreement for PPI to indicate that he wanted 
to take the policy  out. I think Mr C could have left the PPI section blank if he didnt want the 
insurance.
Mr C says that he called Barclays  whilst  he was completing his application for a credit card 
online, and it was at this point that the advisor  told him that he needed to take the policy  out. 
Barclays has said it has no record of this call on its system. I cant be sure what happened  at 
the time of sale when  the PPI policy was sold to Mr C. This all took place several years ago 
and memories do fade over time. Taking all of this into consideration and what I have  
concluded about the credit agreement already, I think Mr C was given a choice when he took 
the PPI policy  out during the application and he chose to take it.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. It did have to provide information  that was clear, fair and not misleading.
It is possible the information Barclays gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. Mr C told us that he was entitled  to some sick pay (up to 3 months) and some  
savings. I can see the policy  would have paid more  than his minimum credit  card 
repayments for up to 12 months if he couldnt  work, providing a useful extra benefit at a 
difficult time. And he doesnt appear  to have had significant other  means to make his credit  
card repayments if he couldnt  work. He was not affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy  was competitively  priced and apparently affordable.
So I think it unlikely Mr C would have made a different decision if better  information  had 
been provided. On balance  I think  he would  still have taken out the policy. This means 
Barclays dont have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. But Barclays  has paid 
back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN45830522To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4583052