K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has rejected the claim they 
made under their travel  insurance  policy for costs  they incurred when they werent able to 
collect their hire car because  the car rental  office was closed.
When I refer to IPA, that also includes their agents.
background
Mr and Mrs B booked  a flight from the UK to foreign airport A. Unfortunately due to a bad 
storm, the aircraft was diverted to airport B. A coach  service then took passengers  to airport 
A, where Mr and Mrs B arrived  at 02.05  am. They had pre-booked a hire car, but at that time 
of night the car hire office was closed. As their car had not been collected before the office 
closed, the booking was voided.  Mr and Mrs B had to take a taxi to their ultimate destination, 
hire another car, and then take a taxi back to airport A at the end of their trip.
Mr and Mrs B also complain that IPA failed  to respond to the calls they made to its helpline.
Mr and Mrs B and IPA have referred to different sections of Mr and Mrs Bs policy. IPA 
referred to Section D  Delayed Departure/Abandonment. This section  states (with my 
emphasis added in bold):
What IS Covered:
If you have arrived at the terminal and have checked-in, or attempted  to check  in for
your pre-booked  flight, sea crossing, international coach or international train journey
from or to the United  Kingdom, and it is delayed for more  than  12 hours beyond the
intended departure time as a direct result of:
1 strike or Industrial  action
2 adverse weather conditions or
3 mechanical breakdown  of or a technical  fault occurring in the scheduled public
transport on which you are booked  to travel,
we will pay you, either:
a) £25 for the first full 12 hours that your  departure is delayed, and
b) £25 for each  additional full six-hour period of delay. The maximum we will
pay you per trip is £250: or
c) If after a minimum of 24 hours  delay on your outward journey and the
period of your trip is reduced by more than 25% of the original  pre-booked
duration, you may choose to submit  a cancellation  claim under Section C -
Cancellation. A refund or alternative compensation must initially be sought
from the travel provider.
Mr and Mrs B consider that Section R  Travel  Disruption  Cover , is relevant to their 
situation. The relevant parts of this state (my emphasis in bold): 
Definitions - Applicable  to this section
Covered events
- flood, earthquake, tsunami, landslide, avalanche,  hurricane , storm, tornado,  fire
and volcanic activity  caused by any naturally occurring event, excluding  any event
caused as a direct result  of human and/or malicious intervention.
Prepaid charges
- charges  you have  paid before you travel, or are contracted  to pay, for car hire,
Ref: DRN45139592car parking at the point  of departure,  airport  accommodation, airport lounge
access, or excursions.
Travel disruption
- the inability of your public transport to depart  from the booked port or airport
due to a covered event
What IS Covered
Before you reach your destination
1 if the public  transport  (port  or airport) on which you were booked to travel from
the United Kingdom, including any onward connecting flights, is cancelled  or
delayed for at least six hours  due to a covered  event, we will pay for your costs
incurred in the terminal in respect  of restaurant meals, refreshments  consumed
and hotel accommodation up to:
a) £20 for the first six hours delay, and
b) £20 for each  additional full 12 hours delay, up to a maximum of £200
providing you eventually  continue the booked  trip. You must have checked in or
attempted to check in according to the carriers' regulations, itemised receipts  must
be kept as proof of purchase,
2 if due to travel  disruption you fail to arrive  at the next departure point  in time
to board your pre-booked onward connecting public transport and you have
to make alternative arrangements to reach your final destination, we will pay
you up to £1000 for your reasonable  additional travel and accommodation costs
(room only) which are of a similar standard to that of your pre-booked travel and
accommodation that you cannot  claim back from any other source. 
3 if your pre-booked international transport is cancelled by the carrier due to travel
disruption and no alternative is offered, we will pay you up to:
a) £2,000  for your unused  travel,  accommodation (including excursions up
to £250) and other prepaid  charges that you cannot claim back from
any other source if you cannot  travel and have to cancel your trip, or
b) up to £200 in total per trip for re-booking fees incurred for the identical trip, if
you wish to re-book your trip for a later date.
IPA has referred to both these sections and has given Mr and Mrs B its reasons why it 
doesnt think they apply to their situation.   It maintains  that the policy  is clear  that it only 
covers specific  events  that delay or prevent a flight from leaving  an airport.  It also maintains 
that a hire car isnt public transport.
Mr and Mrs B maintain that IPAs interpretation  of the policy wording is too restrictive.  They  
refer specifically to Section  R2 (quoted above) and argue that travel  disruption due to a 
covered event caused them to be unable to collect their hire car, and that its untenable  to 
argue that public transport shouldn't  cover  other  reasonable pre-paid travel costs  too, such 
as car hire. They also argue that Section R3 (quoted above) explicitly  covers  reimbursement 
of pre-paid charges, such as car hire, in the event of cancellation. They maintain that the 
wording of the policy should be interpreted  in their favour.
Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied with IPAs  reasons for rejecting their claim and referred their 
complaint to this service.
Ref: DRN45139593Our investigator considered their complaint and was of the view that IPA hadnt acted 
unreasonably in its interpretation  of the policy wording and in rejecting Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
Mr and Mrs B arent happy  with the investigators  view, and so have asked that their 
complaint be considered  by an ombudsman. The matters therefore  been referred to me to 
make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint and Ill explain why not.
What I have to consider  is whether  the unfortunate situation in which Mr and Mrs B found 
themselves in is a situation thats covered by the wording of the policy. An insurance policy 
cant cover  every eventuality that might  cause disruption or loss to an insured, but will 
hopefully make clear those situations that are covered.  If the wording is ambiguous, then 
there is scope for argument that the difference of opinion should be resolved in the 
consumers favour. 
In this case, I dont  think there is any room for arguing that the policy wording is ambiguous.  
It seems  clear  to me that Section D of the policy (quoted above) has no application here as 
the clear wording is that it only provides  financial benefit in circumstances where the delay is 
at the point of departure. The delay that Mr and Mrs B suffered  was in arriving at their 
destination airport after their aircraft had been  diverted. In any event, for there  to be any 
benefit under this section, the delay  must  be for at least 12 hours. Mr and Mrs Bs delay was 
less than that. So I dont consider that his section applies.
Turning to Section  R of the policy (also quoted above), Ill consider first Section R1. I think  
its clear that his section  relates to costs incurred  in the terminal if a flight from the UK or an 
onward connecting flight  is delayed due to a covered event (which  includes a storm). I think  
its clear that its intention is to cover  costs incurred whilst waiting  for a delayed flight to leave, 
such as food and drinks.  I dont think it can be interpreted as extending to costs  arising  from 
a delayed arrival or to car hire costs.
Turning to Section  R2 of the policy, this covers failure to arrive at the next departure point in 
time to board  your pre-booked onward  connecting  public  transport  due to travel disruption. I 
need to consider what the policy classes as travel  disruption. It states it is the inability of 
your public transport to depart from the booked  port or airport  due to a covered event.  But 
Mr and Mrs B were  able to depart from their booked  airport. I dont think  I can interpret this 
term as extending  to a failure to arrive at a destination airport. So I cant find that it was due 
to travel disruption that Mr and Mrs B failed  to arrive at the next departure point in time
to board [their] pre-booked onward connecting  public  transport.
I also need then to consider whether Mr and Mrs Bs hire car could reasonably be 
considered to be public transport. There is a definition in the policy. It says:
 Public transport is any publicly licensed aircraft, sea vessel,  train or coach on which  you 
are booked to travel .
Ref: DRN45139594Again, I dont think there is any scope for me to find that this section can be extended to 
cover a hire car. Ive noted Mr and Mrs Bs submission that there  should  be no difference 
between (a) an inability  to catch public transport  due to delay, (b) an inability to use car hire 
due to cancellation and (c) an inability to use car hire due to delay. However  I cant  interpret 
the policy in this way in the face of unambiguous  wording. To do so would be unfair to IPA, 
and I have to be fair to both parties.  
Finally, I considered Section R3. I dont  consider  that this section applies in this case  as Mr 
and Mrs Bs carrier didnt cancel anything.
So my conclusion is that Im unable  to interpret Mr and Mrs Bs policy sufficiently widely  to 
cover their situation, and I dont  consider  that IPA has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
rejecting their claim.  The risk of their situation occurring simply isnt an insured event 
covered by their policy.
I note that IPA has paid Mr and Mrs B £75 for any distress  or inconvenience caused by the 
communication difficulties  they experienced. As neither party has made any comment  about 
the adequacy of this sum, I dont think its appropriate for me to make  any findings about  it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, and Im not going 
to ask Inter Partner Assistance SA to do anything. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 May 2019
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4513959