K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited 
(CFS) in relation to his loan agreement.
background 
Mr S says he took the loan to pay for a new kitchen to be supplied and installed by a third 
party business that Ill call Business A. And he says he had a dispute with Business A 
about whether  the work had been  completed  satisfactorily, so he refused to sign the 
certificate of completion. 
Mr S also says he had been  told by CFS that his signature or authority would be needed 
before the loan funds would be released to Business A. However, he says he later learned  
that the funds  had been released  without his authorisation. And he says CFS acknowledged 
hed been wrongly advised previously and it offered him £50 compensation for this error.
Our investigator thought Mr Ss complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said the loan agreement 
Mr S had signed said CFS would pay the loan monies to Business A once it had supplied 
and fitted the kitchen  and this was what had happened. The investigator  acknowledged CFS 
had mistakenly told Mr S the funds wouldnt be released without his approval, but he thought 
the £50 compensation it had offered him for this error  was reasonable.
The investigator also noted Mr S was unhappy  with the quality of the kitchen and he said 
that matter could be raised as a separate complaint if Mr S wished. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions.  He said the goods arent as detailed  in 
the contract  and Business A didnt provide the promised standard of professional installation. 
He said both CFS and Business  A told him at various stages of the order that they wouldnt 
draw the loan until hed signed  to confirm the kitchen was accepted. And he said this gave 
him the confidence  to place the order.
So, the matter  has been referred to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
I see the loan agreement Mr S signed  on 10 June 2018 says CFS would release the funds to 
Business A once  it had supplied the relevant  goods  or services. And I see the kitchen had 
been supplied  and installed by 17 November 2018.  
The agreement doesnt require Mr Ss confirmation of satisfaction with the work undertaken 
before release of the loan monies. So, I think CFS was acting in accordance  with the terms 
of the loan by releasing the funds  when Business A confirmed the kitchen had been supplied 
and installed.
I note Mr S says he was told at various  stages by CFS and Business A when he was 
arranging the finance and ordering  the kitchen that the loan wouldnt be drawn until hed 
signed to confirm the kitchen was accepted. However, whilst  I dont doubt  thats  what  he 
Ref: DRN47104622recalls, I cant  uphold  this aspect of his complaint,  given the wording of the loan agreement,  
in the absence of information supporting  his recollection of what  was said about this matter.
I see, however,  that CFS wrongly told Mr S in September 2018  that the loan monies wouldnt 
be released without  his approval. But I also see it later acknowledged its error  and offered 
him £50 compensation. I think this was reasonable, particularly bearing in mind that CFS 
remained bound to pay Business A under the terms of the loan agreement, once it confirmed 
the kitchen had been installed.
Im aware that Mr S has also told us about his concerns about the quality of the kitchen. But, 
as our investigator has explained, those issues dont form part of this complaint. And this 
means it wouldnt be appropriate for me to address them  in my decision. 
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mr Ss complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr Ss complaint against Clydesdale  Financial 
Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4710462