K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Blue Motor  Finance Limited  wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr S under  a hire purchase agreement  with Blue Motor Finance 
that he signed in July 2018. He contacted the dealer about  a week later because there were 
several faults with the car, including an oil leak. He says that it was agreed that he would 
take the car to a garage  suggested  by the dealer and it told him to monitor the leak.  
He says that he returned the car to the garage  some months later and it confirmed that there 
was an oil leak from the fuel pump but the dealer refused to pay for it to be repaired. He 
complained to Blue Motor Finance and it said that the evidence didnt show  that the fault was 
there or developing  at the point of sale. Mr S wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She was satisfied that 
there was a fault present  or developing when the car was supplied to Mr S so she 
recommended that Blue Motor Finance should cover  the cost of repair  of the oil leak.
Blue Motor  Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says 
that the diagnostic report from August 2018  states  that the undertray was soaked in oil 'from  
a previous leaking filter' - and the undertray  was cleaned and refitted - which  would seem  to 
confirm the pre-delivery inspection which said that no oil leaks were  present at point of sale.  
It also says that a fuel pump would not be connected to a minor oil leak from an oil filter and 
if the car wasnt satisfactory quality at point of sale Mr S wouldnt have been able to use it for 
the significant mileage covered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Blue Motor  Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S. Whether or not it was of satisfactory  quality 
at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and 
the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to him was about  seven years old, 
had been driven  for about 74,000 miles and had a price of £9,498.24. Satisfactory quality 
also covers durability which  means that the components within the car must  be durable and 
last a reasonable amount  of time  but exactly how long that time is will also depend  on a 
number of factors. 
Mr S says that he contacted the dealer about several faults with the car, including an oil leak, 
within a week of the car being supplied to him. He says it was agreed that he would  take the 
car to a garage  suggested by the dealer and it told him to monitor  the leak.
The garages work history  report describes the work  as: Check  for oil leaks,  found  undertray 
soaked in oil from previous leaking filter. Removed, cleaned  and refitted. Mr S says that he 
was told to monitor the leak and he returned  the car to the garage some months later and it 
Ref: DRN49869612confirmed that there was an oil leak from the fuel pump. He asked the dealer to pay for the 
repair but it refused  to do so.
Mr S has been able to use the car and he says that its mileage is now 113,838  so hes 
been able to drive  it for nearly  40,000  miles in about two years  - but the fault has never been 
rectified. He also says that hell be replacing the car soon.
Blue Motor  Finance has provided a copy of the pre delivery inspection checklist  which  shows  
that the car was checked for leaks and none were found. If the undertray  had been soaked 
in oil because of an earlier oil leak, I consider that it would be reasonable to expect  that the 
inspection would have  identified that the undertray  was soaked in oil and for that to have 
been dealt with before the car was supplied to Mr S.
Mr S says that he contacted the dealer about an oil leak within a week  of the car being 
supplied to him and the garage found that the undertray was soaked in oil. I consider it to be 
more likely than not that the car did have  an oil leak when it was supplied to Mr S and that, 
for that reason, it wasnt of satisfactory  quality at that time. 
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Blue Motor Finance to 
arrange and pay for the oil leak to be repaired.  But Im not persuaded that there enough 
evidence to show that Mr Ss use of the car has been significantly impacted  by the oil leak  
so I dont consider  that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require  it to take any other 
action in response to his complaint.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and I order Blue Motor 
Finance Limited  to arrange and pay for the oil leak to be repaired.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4986961