K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the credit limit increases that were applied to his account by NewDay 
Ltd, trading as Aqua.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
In summary,  I didnt think NewDay should have increased Mr Ps credit limit when it did. I 
said this because, based on the information  NewDay held about Mr P, it was clear he wasnt  
managing his account well. For example, he was often over his credit limit in the months 
leading up to the limit increases. 
I didnt think that NewDay  had done sufficient  checks on Mr P to ensure that hed be able to 
afford the new credit limit increases. I thought  that had it done  this, it would likely show that 
Mr P was struggling financially. And wouldnt have been able to sustainably repay the 
additional borrowing. 
So, I thought that Mr Ps complaint about the credit  limit increases should be upheld. I also 
invited both parties to come back to me with any additional information they wanted me to 
consider before I came to my final decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im upholding Mr Ps 
complaint.
NewDay replied to my provisional decision to say it didnt have anything  further to add.
Mr P responded to say that he agreed with my provisional findings.
Because of this, I see no reason to change my provisional decision. Ive attached  this to the 
bottom of this final decision.
fair compensation  what  Im telling NewDay to do to put things right  for Mr P.
As Mr P had to pay a significant  amount of interest  and charges as a result  of his credit  limit 
unfairly being increased from December 2014  onwards,  I think  that he lost out because  of 
what NewDay did wrong. So NewDay should  put things right.
Where credit  has been provided  when it shouldnt have been, it would be fair and reasonable 
for the lender to refund  any interest  and charges paid by the borrower  (if there were any) 
plus interest. And the borrower would be expected to repay  any remaining amount of the 
funds they were given.  So Id expect  Mr P to pay back the funds  he was lent  when he used 
his card  but not the interest. From what Ive seen, it looks  as though Mr P has repaid the 
amount owing to NewDay.
NewDay should rework Mr Ps account to remove the effect  of any interest and charges 
accrued on the account as a result  of the unfair  credit limit increases which  took place in 
Ref: DRN40957932December 2014,  August  2016 and April 2017. In other words, for the period from the 
December 2014  statement  up until the account  was closed,  NewDay  can only add any 
interest due on the first £1000 of the balance  any late payment and over limit fees after 
December 2014  also need to be refunded irrespective of what  any reconstructed  final 
balance may show.
The payments Mr P made from December 2014  onwards  - should then be applied to the 
reworked balance. Any extra that was paid should  be treated as overpayments and returned 
to Mr P. NewDay  should also add interest, at 8% simple per year, from the date any 
overpayment was made to the date of settlement.
NewDay should also remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit  file as a 
result of this account.
All of this means  that in order  to put things  right for Mr P, Im intending to tell NewDay  to:
rework the account to ensure that from December 2014 interest is only charged on
the first £1000.00  outstanding to reflect  the fact that no further credit limit increases
should have been provided.  All late payment and over limit fees (that were applied
after December 2014) should also be removed;  and
the payments  Mr P made  from December  2014  onwards should then be deducted
from the reworked  account balance. Any extra that was paid should  be treated as
overpayments and refunded to Mr P; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if they were any, from the
date they were made to the date of settlement 
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest.  NewDay must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, Im upholding Mr Ps 
complaint. NewDay Ltd should put things right in the way set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40957933copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr P complains about the credit limit increases  that were applied to his account by NewDay Ltd, 
trading as Aqua.
background
Mr P took out a credit card account  with NewDay  in 2008. He was initially given a credit limit of £1000. 
The account  was closed in 2018,  when  the credit limit was £3400.
NewDay increased Mr Ps credit  limit to £1500 in December 2014, £2300  in August 2016 and to 
£3400 in April 2017.
Mr P complains that NewDay shouldnt have given him the card in the first instance and that he 
couldnt afford  the subsequent credit limit increases. He says the increases left him in a worse 
position financially. Mr P says he doesnt feel that NewDay  carried out the appropriate checks  before 
increasing his credit limit  and had it done this, it would have  been clear  that he wasnt in a good 
financial position.
Our investigator looked into this complaint. He didnt  think we could consider Mr Ps complaint about  
the initial  sale of the credit card account  this is because  the complaint had been made  outside of the 
time limits that this service has to take into account when considering complaints. Mr P agreed that 
our investigator would look at the credit  limit increases  that took place later in his relationship with 
NewDay.
After considering all the information we had on file about how Mr P operated his account,  and what Mr 
P had told us about his financial position at the time,  our investigator  didnt think  that NewDay had 
done anything wrong by increasing the limit on Mr Ps credit  card.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators opinion.  He provided further information  to let us know about his 
financial position at the time, and why he feels it was irresponsible  of NewDay to increase the limit on 
his credit card.
Because Mr P didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision on the 
matter.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, Im currently  minded to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint.
The rules and regulations throughout  NewDays  lending relationship with Mr P required it to carry out 
a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford  to repay what he owed  in a 
sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment or 
affordability check.
These checks needed to be borrower focussed and so NewDay needed to consider not only the 
likelihood of it getting its money back, but also whether repaying the credit would  cause undue  
difficulties for Mr P.
The checks needed to be proportionate  to the specific circumstances of the lending. Generally, what  
constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors including   
but not limited to  the particular circumstances  of the consumer (e.g. their financial history, current  
Ref: DRN40957934situation and outlook, and any indications  of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / 
cost of credit involved.
As Ive said,  Mr P has provided  me with a more  detailed  account of his circumstances  and his 
financial position when  NewDay offered him the increases. Its clear from what  Mr P has told us that 
he was struggling financially   so I now need to decide if NewDay carried out the appropriate checks 
and increased his credit limit responsibly  by taking into account what Ive said above.  And if there 
were any indicators that Mr P might not have been able to afford the increases.
With this in mind, I have gone on to consider each credit limit increase NewDay  has allowed Mr P.
the first credit  limit increase  in December 2014
Mr P took out the credit  card in 2008 and was initially given a credit limit of £1000. And in December 
2014 it increased  his limit to £1500.
Ive seen a copy of the letter  NewDay sent to Mr P on 26 November 2014 about  the credit limit 
increase. This suggests  that it had offered  Mr P the increase based on how hed managed his 
account to date.
Ive looked at how Mr P had managed his account up until this point.  In the six months leading  up to 
the increase, Mr P had been  charged an over limit fee five months out of the six. In my view, this 
doesnt show  good account  management. And doesnt suggest to me that Mr P was coping with the 
limit he already had.
In addition to this, NewDay  has sent me its internal  credit scoring data. This shows that in 2014,  on 
three occasions, one of the credit reference agencies had placed a financial difficulty  indicator  on Mr 
Ps credit file. Again, suggesting that he was having some financial problems. The last financial 
difficulty indicator  in 2014  was added in October 2014, one month before NewDay sent Mr P a letter 
offering to increase  his limit.
NewDay have said that this flag will be used to exclude its customers  from a credit limit increase  it 
isnt clear to me why it didnt exclude Mr P from the increase on this occasion. If its argument here is 
that the flag wasnt  there when it went ahead and increased the limit, then I dont think  this is enough  
to determine whether or not Mr P could  in fact afford the increase. And it should have carried out 
more thorough checks before offering  the increase.
With the above in mind,  it concerns me that NewDay felt that the management on Mr Ps account had 
been good enough to increase  his limit. And it still went ahead  and did this after it had known that in 
the previous month  one of the credit reference agencies thought that Mr P could be having  financial 
problems.
It then follows that I cant agree that it was responsible of NewDay to increase  Mr Ps limit to £1500  in 
December 2014.
the second credit limit increase in August  2016
In August 2016, NewDay increased  Mr Ps limit to £2300. On 4 August 2016, NewDay sent Mr P a 
letter stating that after looking at how he had been managing his account, it would like to offer him a 
credit limit increase.
Looking at the information  NewDay has sent me. In the six months leading  up to the increase, Mr P 
had been charged an over limit fee three months out of the six. Again, I cant
agree that this represents  good account management. And within the six months leading  up to the 
increase, a financial  difficulty  indicator had been placed on Mr Ps credit file with one of the credit 
reference agencies. This ought to have alerted NewDay to a potential cause for concern  for Mr Ps 
overall financial position.
Ref: DRN40957935Again, I would have expected NewDay to carry out more thorough checks on Mr Ps financial  position  
before offering this increase   especially given the information NewDay were aware of.
It is for the reasons Ive explained here, that I dont  think Mr P should  have been offered a credit limit 
increase at this time.
the third credit limit increase  in April 2017
In March 2017  NewDay wrote to Mr P to let him know that due to the management of his account, it 
would like to offer him a credit  limit increase  with the new limit being  increased to £3400.
Based on what NewDay has sent me, on the face of things, its internal  report on Mr P doesnt show 
that hed missed any payments, or that hed been over the limit. But Mr P tells us a different story as 
to what  was happening  at this time. It was NewDays  responsibility to check  that Mr P was able to 
afford this increase  and I dont think he could.
Increasing a credit limit by almost a third of what it was, and to more than three times the amount of 
the original  limit, is in my opinion a significant increase. The checks  NewDay  needed to carry  out 
ought to have  been proportionate to this increase.  NewDay hasnt shown me any information that 
satisfies me that it checked  Mr P could afford this new credit limit increase.  For example, I havent 
seen that NewDay considered Mr Ps income, expenditure  or other financial commitments  when 
making its decision.  I dont think that NewDays internal data, that it seems to be relying on, is enough 
to determine a persons ongoing financial position. And it certainly doesnt take into consideration how 
much disposable income Mr P had at the time the increase was made.
The information I have  leads me to think that its more likely than not that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have shown  that Mr P wouldnt have been able to sustainably repay  the 
additional £1100 within  a reasonable period of time. So I think  that it was unreasonable for NewDay  to 
have offered and then provided  this credit limit increase  to Mr P.
Its worth noting that NewDay  has told me that it wouldnt increase  a customers credit limit if they 
were showing as having  been over the limit for three consecutive months prior to the increase  and it 
wouldnt increase the limit if the customer was over the limit at the point in which the increase was 
due to take place. Im pleased to have read this  and I agree that increasing the limit in these  
instances would be irresponsible. But I also think it irresponsible to increase a limit when NewDays 
own data shows some concerning account  management and external financial difficulty indicators  
especially without carrying out further affordability checks.
NewDay has also said that where a customer brings  the account back  under  the limit in the same 
statement month,  then it wouldnt take this into account when deciding whether to increase the limit. 
But in my opinion, I think that it should. Being over the limit on numerous  occasions  demonstrates 
poor account  management  and can be an indicator  of financial  difficulties. It also shows that Mr P was 
continually very close to his credit limit. Not taking  this into account, is not in my view taking into 
consideration the high utilisation of the account  which NewDay tells me it considers when making a 
lending decision.
NewDay may respond to this provisional decision  to say that it wasnt its policy to carry out more 
checks  or that it wasnt  required to check a customers income and expenditure  before making a 
decision to lend more money. But it was its responsibility to check  its customer could afford to repay  
a significant increase in borrowing  and without checking a customers income and expenditure, I 
dont see how it could satisfy itself that the lending  was affordable.
Ive seen what  NewDay  has said about  it sending  Mr P letters offering him the opportunity to opt out 
of the proposed limit increases. This is all well and good,  but I dont see how this makes a difference 
as to whether it was fair and reasonable  to offer these limit increases in the first place.
Ref: DRN40957936fair compensation   what Im intending to tell NewDay to do to put things right for Mr P.
As Mr P had to pay a significant amount of interest  and charges as a result of his credit limit unfairly  
being increased from December 2014 onwards, I think  that he lost out because of what NewDay did 
wrong. So NewDay should put things right.
Where credit has been provided when  it shouldnt  have been, it would be fair and reasonable for the 
lender to refund  any interest and charges paid by the borrower (if there were any) plus interest.  And 
the borrower would be expected to repay any remaining  amount of the funds they were given. So Id 
expect Mr P to pay back  the funds he was lent  when he used his card  but not the interest. From  
what Ive seen, it looks as though Mr P has repaid the amount owing  to NewDay.
NewDay should  rework  Mr Ps account to remove the effect of any interest and charges  accrued  on 
the account as a result of the unfair credit limit increases  which took place in December 2014, August 
2016 and April 2017. In other words, for the period from the December 2014  statement up until the 
account was closed, NewDay can only add any interest due on the first £1000 of the balance  any 
late payment  and over limit fees after December  2014 also need to be refunded irrespective  of what 
any reconstructed final balance  may show.
The payments Mr P made from December  2014 onwards - should then be applied to the reworked 
balance. Any extra  that was paid should  be treated  as overpayments and returned to Mr P. NewDay 
should also add interest, at 8% simple per year, from the date any overpayment was made  to the date 
of settlement.
NewDay should  also remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file as a result of this 
account.
All of this means that in order to put things  right for Mr P, Im intending to tell NewDay to:
rework  the account  to ensure  that from December 2014 interest is only charged on
the first £1000.00 outstanding to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases
should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees (that were applied
after December 2014)  should  also be removed;  and
the payments  Mr P made from December 2014 onwards should  then be deducted
from the reworked account  balance.  Any extra that was paid should  be treated  as
overpayments and refunded  to Mr P; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments,  if they were any, from the
date they were made to the date of settlement 
HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must give Mr P 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained,  Im intending to partially uphold Mr Ps complaint and say that NewDay Ltd 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
So unless the comments and evidence  I get by 1 July 2020  change my mind, thats what Ill tell 
NewDay to do in my final decision.
Ref: DRN4095793