K820x#14complaint
Mrs F used  to be represented by a third party, and through her former representative she 
complained to Ramsdens Financial Limited  (Ramsdens) about  a loan in 2011.
Background and findings
I attach my provisional decision dated 23 January  2020, which forms part of this final 
decision and should be read with it. In it I explained why I intended not to uphold  Mrs Fs 
complaint. Both parties had time to provide any further comments they may have by 
6 February 2020  before  I reached  a further  decision.
Mrs F has responded and is very disappointed.  I have not heard from Ramsdens.
Having reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  and having considered the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time,  I see no reason to alter my 
provisional findings. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  dated 23 January 2020,  I do 
not uphold Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision on or before 10 March 2020.
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN48309552COPY OF THE PROVISIONAL DECISION
background
Mrs F complained to Ramsdens through her former representative. Ramsdens  had very few records 
about specific  loans, but it did confirm that Mrs F was known  to it as a customer for pawn broking. Mrs 
F has confirmed with us that she does not wish to complain about  that, and so I have not considered  
that aspect.
Mrs F maintains that there were a series of cheque cash loans as well but neither party have provided 
me with information to be able to establish these cheque cash loans, the dates or the amounts. And I 
have explained to both parties that I am not able to satisfactorily seek  to resolve a complaint when the 
fundamental details of the credit  extended  to Mrs F cannot  be established. Mrs F has said that she 
was in difficulties financially  at the time.
In Ramsdens final response letter to Mrs F dated  12 September 2017 it was able to confirm  one 
payday loan was approved for her in June  2011 and was repaid  on 2 September  2011.  It sent no 
additional documents  just a short loan table  which showed that the Amount Borrowed  was £172 
and the Amount  to be Repaid was £200 and the Interest paid from June 2011 to Repaid Date was 
£84.  
The complaint remains unresolved and I have made some provisional findings.
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I have taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending  money  to a consumer,  a lender  should take proportionate steps to understand whether 
the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a sustainable manner without it 
adversely impacting on their financial  situation.  
A lender  should gather  enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on the 
lending. Although the guidance and rules  themselves did not set out compulsory checks, they did list 
a number of things  a lender could take into account before agreeing  to lend. The key element  was 
that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a number of different things,  
including how much  was being lent and when the sum being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
I do not know  for certain what Ramsdens would  have done  before approving this loan,  as Ramsdens 
has not provided anything specific  on this loan approval. But following my request it has given me 
some general  information as to how it approached  its lending. 
Ramsdens has explained that customers applied for loans in its stores  and would have  a conversation 
with a member of staff. Personal details  would be taken and usually it would  request proof of income 
and an up-to-date bank  statement. Most loans  were paid in cash. Ramsdens did not carry  out credit 
searches and it is right when  it says that there was no obligation to do so. 
I have the lists of bank account transactions sent to me by Mrs F and as Ramsdens  has said that it 
would likely have asked for up to date statements when she applied, then I have looked  for the period 
1 May 2011 to 1 June  2011  to see what Ramsdens may have  seen. I am assuming  that if asked then 
statements from this account  were likely the ones Mrs F would have shown to Ramsdens. But I can 
see a number  of transfers from another account belonging to Mrs F into this one. I do not know what  
those were but if Mrs F wishes to send me details  or copy bank statements for that other account,  she 
is able to do that within  the next two weeks. Several  of the transfers are for quite large sums and I can 
see that several are transfers back into that other account. 
Ref: DRN48309553For income into the account, there were credits  for what appears to be two salaries on 13 May 2011 
for just over £1,216,  and for just over £1,315 on 27 May 2011 and regularly each month. I asked Mrs 
F about these and she has confirmed that these transaction  lists relate to a joint bank account and 
she had one job. There were some child tax credits into this account as well. So, the information 
I have from these statements are not for Mrs F alone. 
There were  some payments  to a debt collection agency and one to Ramsdens in early May 2011. 
Ramsdens and Mrs F have both explained that Mrs F was an existing customer for pawn broking  as 
well and so I do not know what that May 2011 payment was for. And as these  transactions relate  to a 
joint account  it may have been between the other account holder and Ramsdens:  it is difficult to 
decipher. And I can see that there  were some cheques which were cashed, some were returned 
unpaid and I do not know what they were for. 
On the information I have currently, and on the assumption  that this is how Mrs Fs June 2011 loan 
was applied for and approved, then the pre-application  information  Ramsdens was likely  to have 
gathered seems to be satisfactory for a loan of this size. I would not have expected Ramsdens to 
have done more.
I am planning  not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint about  the June 2011 loan.
Ref: DRN4830955