K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the service he received  from The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) 
when he tried to make  a payment from his bank account.
background
Mr M attempted  to make a payment using RBS automated telephone banking system.  He 
said after entering  his PIN and customer number he was transferred to an advisor. The 
advisor also tried to log into the system  to complete  the transaction but the security 
information Mr M told her didnt pass the security check. 
Mr M was unhappy and was put through to the RBS complaints team.  Mr M told the 
complaint handler  that he knew his password and he thought that the advisor mayve 
entered the information incorrectly into the system  and therefore  blocked him from being 
able to do the transaction.
RBS acknowledged  and apologised for the difficulties Mr M was experiencing using the 
telephone banking system.  It offered  to take him through  security again and complete the 
transaction. Mr M declined  this offer and said he will go online later.  RBS credited Mr M 
account with £10 to reflect the issues Mr M had experienced.
Mr M then attempted to make the payment online  but was unable  to log on and he had to 
re-register to gain access. Mr M thinks that RBS had blocked  his account online because  of 
the problems he had with the telephone  banking.  RBS has said Mr M entered  his password 
incorrectly online and as a result of this he was locked out of the system until he 
re-registered and created a new password. The account was then unlocked. 
Mr M is also unhappy that RBS didnt  handle his complaint correctly.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She recognised that Mr M had a frustrating 
experience with RBS telephone banking but didnt think what  happened had caused 
significant inconvenience and therefore  felt that the £10 compensation was a fair offer in the 
circumstances. She also couldnt  see that the problems Mr M experienced with his online 
banking were due to any error RBS made.   Our investigator also explained  that complaint 
handling isnt a regulated  activity and therefore  isnt something we can consider.
Mr M disagreed with our investigator and asked for the case to be passed to an 
ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
problems with telephone and online banking
There is no dispute that Mr M had problems  using the telephone banking. From the evidence 
provided the problems occurred  because  the security checks were not passed. I understand 
that Mr M has told us and RBS  that  he knows his password and he therefore  thinks  when he 
was transferred to an advisor the details  he gave, mayve been  entered incorrectly  and 
therefore prevented  the transaction being  completed.  I can appreciate this mightve 
Ref: DRN47606372happened but there is no way to prove that this is what caused  the problem or if the details 
provided to the advisor were incorrect.  
As its not known for sure what happened Ive considered what  RBS did to try and rectify the 
issue. Ive listened  to the call Mr M had with the complaints department. The complaints 
handler acknowledged and apologised for the difficulties Mr M was having and offered to 
take Mr M through security again to process  the transaction. Mr M declined to do this and 
said he would go online later. The complaints handler then arranged £10 to go into Mr Ms 
account for the issues hed experienced. I think RBS offer is fair and reasonable for the 
issues Mr M experienced. I say this because it offered to do the transaction there and then - 
as long as Mr M passed security. It also recognised that Mr M had been on the phone for 
some time trying to sort the issue out and although I think  this was very frustrating for Mr M, I 
cant see that he was caused significant inconvenience, and I therefore  wont be asking RBS 
to increase its offer.
When Mr M tried to go online  to make the payment he was unable to log-on and had to 
re-register to activate  a new password. Mr M thought this problem had occurred because of 
the problems with the telephone banking. I can understand why Mr M mayve thought the 
two problems were linked, but from what  Ive seen this isnt the case. The online audit trail 
shows Mr M entered his password incorrectly three times, and as no further attempts are 
allowed the only way to gain access online is to follow  the instructions to reset  his password.  
I know Mr M understands the importance of security  checks to keep his information and 
accounts safe. Ive considered that not being  able to complete the transaction again mayve  
added to Mr Ms frustration but from what Ive seen the reason Mr M couldnt access  his 
account cant be attributed  to an error  made by RBS. So I wont  be asking it do anything  
further.
RBS complaint handling
Mr M has raised several issues relating to the way his complaint was handled and he doesnt  
think RBS handled  his complaint correctly. This isnt a regulated activity and isnt something 
we can make awards for in isolation. I can take it into account  when looking at the fair level 
of compensation  for Mr M. Taking  all the circumstances into account Im satisfied the 
payment of £10 is fair overall, for the reasons Ive given.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 12 August 2019. 
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4760637