K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms H are unhappy with the service theyve received from Alliance Insurance  Plc 
(Allianz) throughout their buildings  insurance claim.
background
Mr and Ms H hold a property owners insurance  policy with Allianz, and submitted a claim in 
February 2016 after discovering a flood in the basement  of their property. A loss adjuster 
was sent to visit the property, and from the outset of the claim being submitted, Mr and Ms H 
have been dissatisfied with various  elements of the service theyve received from Allianz and 
its agents.
Mr and Ms H have  submitted correspondence  passed between themselves and the various 
parties involved in the insurance claim,  which highlight the issues theyve been  unhappy  
with. These  include,  but are not strictly limited to:
Delays in arranging  for a leak detection specialist to initially visit the property,  who 
eventually pursued Mr and Ms H for payment personally due to a long running 
dispute with the loss adjuster;
Poor communication, inaction and a lack of response from those involved,  
particularly the loss adjuster;
Due to poor interpretation  of the policy wording, Mr and Ms H were  incorrectly told 
that they were  not entitled to alternative  accommodation and misinformed about who 
should be covering this, despite  the entire  family having to sleep in one room and the 
washer/dryer/freezer being unusable   meaning  there was a significant period of the 
works where they were not provided with more  suitable accommodation.
The loss adjuster incorrectly told Mr and Ms H that no additional  private works could 
be undertaken by the contractors, despite  the contractors later saying they couldve 
done this;
The loss adjuster failed to properly  consider  compliance with building  regulations 
which, when Mr and Ms H looked into this themselves, significantly altered the scope 
of the insurance  claim;
Mr and Ms H do not feel they were  taken seriously when they raised concerns, and 
their claim was only upgraded to the major loss team  after making a formal 
complaint.
This poor service occurred over a period of around  17 months, in which Mr and Ms H say 
that very little was actually achieved. They complained to Allianz, who upheld their complaint  
and offered £2,000 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr and Ms H did not accept this offer. They calculated that Allianz had saved around 
£50,000 in alternative accommodation costs due to the delay  in them  being  rehoused.  So 
they argued that the insurer should offer a significant portion of this sum instead.  They  also 
say that Allianz  has failed  to provide any satisfactory explanations for the failings outlined 
above, and neither has it explained what is happening to the loss adjuster as part of its 
disciplinary process.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He considered that the service offered by 
Allianz had been poor, but thought that £2,000  was a fair and reasonable offer in the 
circumstances. Mr and Ms H disagreed,  reiterating the distress and inconvenience theyve 
Ref: DRN40071522been subject to, and saying that it took over two years until they could eventually start 
building work  on their property. So the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it, as I also consider £2,000 to be fair compensation in the circumstances.
Mr and Ms H submit  that Allianz mismanaged their claim, which has led to a significant  level 
of distress and inconvenience. I dont feel it necessary for the purposes of my decision to list 
or set out in detail everything that has happened  since Mr and Ms H submitted their claim. 
But I would like to assure them  that I have carefully  considered everything theyve sent us, in 
order to reach an outcome that is fair and reasonable.
Allianz offered  a total of £2,000 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused, but Mr and Ms H do not feel this is commensurate to the experience 
theyve had with their claim. The power to make  such an award  is provided  for in DISP  Rule 
3.7.2 of the Financial  Conduct Authority Handbook, which  sets out that I can award  fair 
compensation for distress or inconvenience experienced by a customer.  But such an award 
must be a proportionate reflection of the impact  that a businesss actions (or inactions) have 
had. 
One of the reasons Mr and Ms H want  Allianz  to pay further compensation is because they 
want to send a clear message to it that this sort of treatment will not be tolerated  and they 
feel strongly that their actions should not go unpunished. But an award for distress and 
inconvenience is not designed to be punitive in nature.  Only the regulator  i.e. the Financial 
Conduct Authority   can fine authorised firms  for failing to adhere to regulatory principles. So 
I cannot look to increase  Mr and Ms Hs award  simply in order  to punish  the insurer. 
Ive considered the service Mr and Ms H received after submitting their claim,  and its clear  
theyve been left severely frustrated by the actions of Allianz and its agents  in particular 
that of the loss adjuster   and its clear that their lives have been significantly disrupted  as a 
result of the distress and inconvenience suffered. I can see, for example,  that there have 
been avoidable delays in the progress of their claim,  and that the service  theyve  received  
from the loss adjuster  has been poor. But I have to consider whether, in the circumstances, 
the compensation awarded so far is proportionate  to the distress and inconvenience 
suffered.
I appreciate the impact  this overall  experience  has had on Mr and Ms H  including the 
impact it has had on their relationship and day to day lives over such a prolonged period  
but I dont consider the actions of Allianz  to warrant any further compensation at a higher 
level. 
The £2,000 offered by Allianz  is already a substantial award, the likes of which this service 
reserves for severe examples of distress  and inconvenience. And while I have  sympathy for 
the extremely difficult time Mr and Ms H have  been  through, I can see that some delays 
were unavoidable. For example,  there  were repair issues and further  enquiries  that had to be 
made in connection  with the tanking and floor slab. And I also note that Mr and Ms H initially 
said they didnt  want alternative accommodation.  And in deciding what  fair and reasonable 
compensation would be, this service does  make awards in units  for specific failings that 
have occurred, or based on any potential sum a business might  have saved for that matter.
Ref: DRN40071523So I dont  think it would  be fair to ask Allianz to pay any further compensation, as I dont 
consider £2,000 to be an unreasonable or disproportionate reflection of the impact  
experienced by Mr and Ms H based on what theyve said. 
I note that Mr and Ms H are also unhappy  that they havent been  told what disciplinary  action 
might be taken against the loss adjuster. But this is a private matter  of employment between  
Allianz and its staff, and is not something I would  expect  the insurer to disclose to its 
customers. 
my final decision
Allianz insurance plc has made an offer to pay £2,000. I conclude  that such an offer is fair 
compensation in all the circumstances. My decision is that Allianz  should  pay Mr and Ms H 
(if it has not done so already) within 28 days of receiving their acceptance  of this decision.
Mr and Ms H should note that if they accept my decision, it will be legally binding  on all 
parties and they probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter  for 
additional compensation. If, however,  they reject the decision, although their legal rights will 
remain intact, itll be purely a matter  between Mr and Ms H and Allianz as to whether the 
£2,000 offer still remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding  on 
the offeror after rejection of it has been communicated.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4007152