K820x#14complaint
Miss L and Mr C have complained that ProAktive  Ltd told them  they had to renew their 
insurance with their existing insurer when they didnt want  to use that insurer and could have 
looked elsewhere.
background
I issued a provisional decision in March 2019  explaining that I wasnt  intending  to uphold 
Miss L and Mr Cs complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background  
Miss L and Mr C own a number of properties and used ProAktive as their insurance  
broker.
In November 2016 they made a claim through their insurer about malicious damage 
caused by one of their tenants. They werent  happy with the insurers  handling  of their 
claim, so they told ProAktive they didnt want to continue with that insurer  after their 
policy renewal.
In December 2016, during their renewal, ProAktive  advised that it was unable  to 
obtain a quote from another insurer, because of the ongoing claim. It recommended  
that Miss L and Mr C renew their cover with their current insurer   which  they 
reluctantly did.
Miss L and Mr C complain that ProAktive failed to clearly  explain their options. They 
say they werent  told ProAktive only deal with a limited  number  of insurers or that 
they could seek  cover from alternative  insurers themselves. Theyve also complained  
about ProAktives customer service and complaint  handling.
ProAktive says it tried to find Miss L and Mr C alternative cover  but due to their 
ongoing claim no other insurer on its panel  would  provide a quote. It also says that 
Miss L and Mr Cs existing insurer was one of the only insurers  to offer cover  for 
malicious damage caused by tenants. 
Miss L and Mr C brought their complaint to our service  where  it was looked at by one 
of our investigators. She thought ProAktive was acting in their best interest by 
recommending renewal with the existing insurer because it offered cover  for 
malicious damage caused by tenants. She didnt think ProAktive had a duty of care 
to advise Miss L and Mr C that they could seek alternative cover elsewhere,  only to 
source a suitable  quote  which she felt it had.
Miss L and Mr C disagreed with our investigator. They said she had looked at their 
complaint from the perspective of someone  who understands the insurance industry. 
But they arent experts and didnt know that ProAktive only dealt with a small number  
of insurers. They say they asked a clear  question  do we have to renew with the 
same insurer   and that they were told yes. So they feel ProAktive  has failed them  by 
purposefully providing  the wrong  advice.
Ref: DRN40733652As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The main  issues I need to decide  here are whether ProAktive did everything it ought 
to have done for Miss L and Mr C during their insurance renewal and what is fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances. 
Its not in dispute  that Miss L and Mr C told ProAktive that they didnt want to renew 
with their existing insurer.  What is in dispute whether or not ProAktive shouldve done  
more to advise  that they could seek alternative  cover elsewhere.
ProAktives responsibilities to Miss L and Mr C are set out in its terms of business 
agreement, a copy of which was provided to Miss L and Mr C during their renewal.  
This document explains that ProAktives role is to, among other things:
identify and advise  on insurable risks in consultation with you
place and renew an insurance programme in accordance with your 
instructions and within contract certainty guidelines
issue policies on behalf of certain  insurers
ProAktive didnt have a responsibility to specifically advise Miss L and Mr C that they 
could seek cover elsewhere. Its responsibility was to source a quote/quotes,  in line 
with their demands and needs. ProAktive considered  Miss L and Mr Cs cover 
requirements and provided  a quote from the only insurer,  on its panel,  that was 
prepared to provide  suitable cover. So I think it met its responsibility to 
Miss L and Mr C.
Ive thought carefully about Miss L and Mr Cs argument that they arent experts in 
the insurance industry, and that if they had known ProAktives renewal didnt include 
all insurers  in the market  that theyd have  taken cover elsewhere  even if it was 
more expensive. But even  if I were to accept that ProAktive shouldve  given them  
clearer information about their panel  of insurers and the wider  market, Id still need  to 
see that they were  disadvantaged by this for me to uphold their complaint. In other  
words, Id need to see that Miss L and Mr C couldve sourced an alternative quote at 
the time  and that they were worse off for renewing with their existing insurer.
ProAktive advised that none of the other  insurers on their panel would offer a quote 
because there was an ongoing claim. It also advised that the market  would  be very 
restricted due to open claim and because the cover requirement included malicious 
damage by tenants  cover.
I havent seen  any evidence that Miss L and Mr C wouldve been able to secure an 
alternative quote at the time.  And based  on my experience, insurers  are usually very 
reluctant to offer cover when there  is an open  claim with another  insurer.  So overall,  I 
think its unlikely that a different insurer wouldve been prepared  to offer cover in the 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN40733653It follows that I cant say that Miss L and Mr C have been disadvantaged  by 
ProAktive.
Miss L and Mr C have also complained about the customer service  and complaint  
handling they experienced. Theyve said a member of staff was rude to them  before 
passing the call to another person who told them to look for another broker.  This 
person was then the person to respond  to their complaint, despite them  asking for a 
response from someone who hadnt been  previously involved.
I appreciate Miss L and Mr Cs concern that ProAktives initial  complaint response  
came from someone they had previously spoken  to. But this person appears to be 
the department team  leader, and looking at the response it seems  that their concerns 
were investigated   as far as they could be. The team leader explained that 
ProAktives calls arent recorded, so she couldnt review what was said during the 
call. She said staff are trained to be courteous and professional at all times and she 
apologised if the service Miss L and Mr C received  didnt meet  this standard.  
I can see that following  the team leader response, Miss L and Mr C received a 
response from the group managing director the following day. Both the team leader 
and the managing director suggested  that Miss L and Mr C may wish to look for an 
alternative broker as they were unhappy with the service ProAktive were providing.  I 
dont think it was wrong for ProAktive  to suggest this as an option, given the 
circumstances. Overall  Im satisfied that Miss L and Mr Cs concerns were  
investigated and I think the apology it has given  is sufficient  in the circumstances.
I explained that I wasnt intending to uphold Miss L and Mr Cs complaint. I asked everyone 
to send me any further comments and information  they might want me to consider  before I 
reached a final decision.
Neither ProAktive, nor Miss L and Mr C responded to my provisional decision. And the 
deadline to do so has now passed,  so Im issuing this final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In the absence of any new evidence or arguments, Ive reached the same conclusions  I 
reached in my provisional decision   for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold 
Miss L and Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 May 2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4073365