K821x#15complaint
Mr A and his daughter  Miss A have complained about the total loss settlement esure
Insurance Limited paid Miss A when it dealt with a claim  she made under her car insurance
policy. Mr A is dealing  with the complaint on Miss As behalf.
background
Miss A bought  a car insurance policy with esure in April 2018. Her father, Mr A was a named
driver under the policy.
Unfortunately in May 2018 Miss As car was damaged while  parked by another vehicle.
esure settled  the claim by paying a total loss settlement.  The car belonged to a finance
company. Mr A was paying for it in instalments under a finance agreement in his name.
In June 2018 esure settled the claim by paying  the finance company  its final balance of
£10,826.92.
Mr A said he bought the car from new ten months  before  the incident and received a
substantial discount  against the new price for the car. He provided an invoice which  showed
the price for the car in May 2017 was £13,099.96. Mr A believed he was entitled to claim
under the new for old benefit  under the policy. He said it would  cost approximately £22,000
to buy a new replacement  car.
Our investigator explained that Mr A wasnt  entitled  to claim under the new for old benefit
under the policy  as he wasnt the registered owner  or keeper of the car. The car belonged to
the finance company. The investigator checked the trade guides and found the total loss
settlement esure used  of £11,076.92 was lower than the lowest valuation  we found at
£11,568. Of the guides we checked,  we found the average came to £11,584.
The breakdown provided by esure shows it paid a total of £11,076.92  as it included  the £250
excess payable under the claim.  It said its looking to recover this from the third party  insurer.
It will reimburse Miss A if this happens.
Our investigator understood that esure  had also refunded Mr A the £250  deposit hed paid
when hed purchase the car. So he recommended esure pay Mr A a further £241.04.
This was the difference between the lowest valuation and the amount  esure  had paid
already - including  the £250  deposit.
esure said Mr A paid an initial instalment of £189.42 which it would reimburse  him for  and
it agreed to pay Mr A £100 compensation for the time, trouble and upset it caused.
Our investigator thought esures  offer was reasonable as  although it used a different
method to him  the final sum was a little more than hed recommended,  which he thought
was fair.
Mr A didnt agree. He said esure  didnt refund the £250 deposit  he paid for the car.
Our investigator checked with esure  and agreed with Mr A. So he thought esure  should
increase the balance it pay Mr A by £250 to £491.04. And he thought  esure should pay
interest on this sum at 8% simple interest  a year.
Ref: DRN49438722Mr A didnt agree. I addressed his reasons  in a provisional decision I issued on 12 
December 2019.  
esure didnt  agree. It said its offer to pay a further  £289.42 is fair.
In my provisional decision I thought a fair outcome was for esure to have settled the claim by 
paying the market value  of the car at the time of loss. This was in line with the policy. The 
difference when  looking  at the average  of the motor  trade guides was £507.08.  So I thought  
esure should pay this amount with interest and pay £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
As Mr A wasnt the policyholder, he wasnt covered under the new for old benefit in line with 
esures policy. 
esure accepted my provisional decision.  Mr A didnt agree.  Hes referred  to our website and 
our approach for similar  cases.  Mr A said the finance dealer provided a letter  to us which  I 
havent referred to in my provisional decision. Mr A believes esure should settle the claim 
under the new for old benefit.  He said the damage that led to the loss was caused  by a third 
party and therefore shouldnt be at any cost to esure  as Mr As representative. 
So the case has been passed back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to depart 
from my findings in my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
For ease, Ive set out Mr As points under headings below.
esure should have  settled  his claim under the new for old benefit
Miss As policy with esure  said;
New car replacement - We will replace  your car with a new one if your car is less
than one year old at the date of damage and you or your partner are the first and only
registered keeper
We provide guidance on our website where  a vehicle  has been purchased through  a PCP 
agreement. We say that an insurer  may have refused to provide a new vehicle replacement  
(within the relevant period) because the vehicle is owned through a personal contract 
purchase (PCP) or hire purchase agreement. This is because the finance company is the 
owner of the vehicle  until the consumer makes  the final payment.  In these circumstances, 
wed say it was reasonable  to provide a new vehicle replacement, as long as the finance  
company agreed.
The car was registered to the finance company.  But in this case  Mr A isnt the policyholder  or 
partner. Miss A is the policyholder. So this term under esures policy  doesnt  apply. This 
means that the letter provided by the finance  company  which Id read isnt relevant in this 
case. The finance agreement wasnt in the policyholders name. It was in Mr As.
Ref: DRN49438723As the insurer its entitled to negotiate and settle  a claim as it sees fit, provided it does so 
reasonably and in line with the terms of the policy. So even where  an insurer looks to 
recover their costs  from a third party insurer, I cant conclude that it would be reasonable to 
do so when acting  outside of the policy terms. 
esure didnt  pay a fair total loss settlement
Miss As policy says that in the event of a total loss settlement, the most it will pay is the
market value of the car at the date of loss. We dont decide a valuation for a vehicle, but we
look at whether the insurer reached  its decision reasonably and in line with the policy.
esure explained how it decides  a market value under Miss As policy:
Our assessment of the value is based  on cars of the same make  and model  and of a
similar age, condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based
on research from motor  trade guides  including: Glass's, Parkers and CAP. This may
not be the price  you paid when you purchased the car.
This is in line with our long standing approach when considering valuation  complaints. We
find the motor trade guides are more reliable  than advertised prices  as adverts tend to give a
margin to negotiate  the price  downward. The motor trade guides provide average valuations
based on a combination of auction  and likely selling prices to provide a retail  transacted
figure. This is what we would expect Miss A  or anyone   to pay for a similar car from a
retail garage.
As Ive said,  we dont  decide a valuation. So if we find that an insurer  has paid a market
value within  the range of the motor  trade  guides,  we generally think  this is reasonable.
In this case, the market value esure used was £11,076.92. This is exactly the same  figure  as
the final settlement  the finance  company quoted minus the £250 excess. I think  this
valuation was too low.
There is very little between the trade  guide valuations  which  we checked as they came to
£11,568 and £11,600 respectively. The average  of these  guides provided a valuation  of
£11,584.
I think a fair outcome  is for esure to pay Miss A the difference between the market  value  of
£11,584 and £11,076.92. And as a claim has been  made, esure, is entitled to deduct  the
excess of £250  as the first part of the claim payment from the settlement  it makes.  However,
esure said if it is able to recover the excess from the third party insurer, it will reimburse this
sum to Miss A which I think is reasonable.
Mr A has provided a copy of a receipt from the finance company to show  he paid a deposit
of £250 cash in May 2017. However,  as I think esure is entitled  to settle the claim by paying
the market value for the car, I dont think this makes  a difference.
I therefore think esure should  pay Miss A the difference  of £507.08.
We know that new cars can depreciate heavily in the first year  sometimes up to as much
as 40%.  Our investigator provided  Mr A with an online  guide  from a third party which  gives
information about the average depreciation amounts for various  vehicles.
Ref: DRN49438724For the car in question, the motor trade guides gave a new purchase price of around
£16,000. And this is the approximate sum Mr A told us the car was worth new in May 2017 
before the discount was applied.
Mr A has used  a new purchase  guide  price for the car at £22,000 to show  that the amount
esure has offered  is well below what he considers reasonable  and reflects a greater than
40% depreciation rate. But as the new for old benefit doesnt  apply in this case, I dont
agree that the figure Mr A has used is the right starting point. Based on a purchase price  of
£16,000 and a market value of £11,584,  this shows a depreciation rate in the region of 28%.
So based  on the information  provided  by the motor trade guides  and Mr A as to the
purchase price of around £16,000  Im satisfied that the motor  trade guides are a reliable
source in deciding a fair market value for Miss As car.
esure hasnt  dealt with Mr As claim for uninsured losses
Mr A told us hes unhappy that esure  hasnt dealt  with his claim for uninsured losses.
The investigator explained that esure said it will consider  a claim and Mr A and Miss A will
need to provide evidence.  This isnt something I can make  a finding on in my decision as its
an issue Mr A raised after he asked us to look at this complaint.  If Mr A remains unhappy
with the way esure deals with this issue, he can raise a separate  complaint to esure about
that.
Mr A has told us that due to the financial loss he has incurred by the incident,  he now has no
car as he cannot  afford one. He said he has gone from having a new car to have nothing.
esure said that Miss A insured a replacement car with it in July 2018 with Mr A as a named
driver. Under the finance agreement for the car that was declared a total loss, the agreement
Mr A made was to pay monthly instalments of £189.42 for a period of 37 months followed by
a final balance payment of £5,852.00   or the option  to return  the car to the finance
dealership. As esure settled the outstanding  finance,  I cant safely  conclude that esure  has
caused Mr A to be left unable to afford  a car.
I understand how upsetting and unfair it feels to have to deal with a claim which isnt your
fault. I appreciate  that Mr A and Miss A feel they are out of pocket as a result of the claim.
While I think esures  initial  market valuation  was too low, I think  a fair outcome in line with
the policy terms is for esure to pay Miss A the difference of £507.08.  This brings the market
value esure  pays to within the range  of the motor trade guides. I think esure  should  pay
interest on the difference at a rate of 8% simple  interest from the date it paid the total loss
settlement to the date it pays Miss A.
I think Miss A and Mr A have been  caused  distress and inconvenience by esures failure to
pay a fair market value.  So in addition to the above, I think esure  should pay Mr A and
Miss A £100 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in
part. I require esure Insurance  Limited  to do the following:
Pay Miss A £507.08 as the difference in the market value it reached under  
Miss As total loss claim.
Ref: DRN49438725Pay interest on this amount  from the date it settled the claim (27 June 2018) to 
the date it pays  at a rate of 8% simple interest a year.
Pay a total of £100 compensation  to Mr A and Miss A for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused.
esure must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr A and 
Miss A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If esure  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr A and Miss A how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr A 
and Miss A a tax deduction  certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Miss A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 February  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4943872