K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the actions Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc BOI  in relation to transactions  
on his account  that he doesnt  recognise.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary here. Mr D had a current account with BOI. Our service has previously 
considered a complaint from Mr D that he hadnt received statements in relation to his 
account. 
That complaint wasnt upheld, but as a gesture of goodwill BOI sent Mr D duplicate copies of 
statements he says he hadnt  previously received. These were  sent to Mr D in August 2018 
although he says he also didnt receive  these  until copies  were forwarded by our service 
early in 2019. In March  2019 Mr D contacted our service and said there were several 
transactions on his statements that he didnt recognise. The disputed  transactions  took place 
between 22 August 2017 and 9 February 2018.  
One of our investigators  passed Mr Ds concerns on to BOI so they could investigate.  They 
said that as more than 13 months had passed since  the transactions  took place, they 
wouldnt investigate them. They highlighted that this was in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. Being unhappy  with this, Mr D asked us to investigate.  
One of our investigators  didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that BOI 
had acted in line with the terms of the account when declining to look at the disputed  
transactions. She acknowledged that Mr D might  not have received all of his statements in 
time to raise a dispute. But she explained  that as it was Mr Ds responsibility  to keep BOI 
informed of his address,  it was still fair for BOI to rely on the 13 month term.
Mr D doesnt accept  this and has asked for an ombudsman  to review his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for similar reasons. Let me explain why.
Under the heading of Disputed Transactions the terms  of Mr Ds account with BOI say: 
You are not entitled  to a refund from us in respect of any unauthorised or incorrectly  
executed transactions on your Account where  we are notified  more than 13 months after the 
debit date of the transaction.
Some of the transactions that Mr D disputes  fall under the Payment Services Regulations 
(PSR) 2009 whilst others  fall under the PSR 2017. But both PSRs  include a similar provision 
to the account  term quoted above. Which broadly speaking means as long as a bank has 
provided or made  available the information  required of them, then redress for a disputed  
transaction is only available if it is reported  without undue delay, and in any event no later 
than 13 months after the debit  date.
Ref: DRN44629522Mr D first disputed the transactions by notifying  our service on 14 March  2019 and our 
service passed this on to BOI the same day. The latest transaction  that Mr D disputes 
debited his account on 9 February  2018. Based on this Im satisfied more than 13 months 
had passed between each transaction and BOI being notified. Ive gone on to think about  
whether it is fair for BOI to rely on the 13 month account term and PSRs here. 
The terms of Mr Ds account also say You must  inform us of any changes to your name 
address or phone number without delay. The transactions Mr D disputes appeared on his 
statements between August 2017 and February  2018. BOI have evidenced  that they were 
sending statements throughout this period to the address they had on file for Mr D. This was 
the same  address hed provided  when  opening the account. If Mr D wasnt  receiving these, 
either through a delay in updating BOI as to a change of address, or through  problems with 
the post, I dont  think this can fairly  be said to be BOIs fault. I think its unlikely that all the 
statements over a seven  month period were lost in the post. 
Mr D updated his address  with BOI in March  2018  and I can see that his monthly statements 
changed to the new address as of April 2018.  Further to this in a letter  Mr D wrote to BOI in 
June 2018 it says I wrote  a letter two months  ago stating I hadnt  received my bank  
statements since January I think if Mr D hadnt received statements prior to January 
2018, its likely he would  have said so in his letter. And many of the disputed transactions  
would have shown  on the statements from late 2017. So on balance, Im not persuaded that 
Mr D didnt receive all the statements.   
But in any case,  BOI have  evidenced that they sent a bundle of Mr Ds previous statements 
to the address they held on file in August 2018.  I understand that Mr D was in prison at the 
time (and says he didnt  receive these), but there is evidence to suggest  that address is a 
family address for Mr D. And even  if I accepted  there had been a previous  error by BOI 
(which I dont)  then at this point the statements were provided again.  
So overall, I dont  think the position  BOI have  taken is unreasonable and I dont think Mr D 
has been treated  unfairly. Because of this Im not going to tell BOI to do anything  more to 
resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4462952