K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) increased the 
APR on his account from 44.9% to 59.9%. He understood that if he managed  his account 
well the APR rate would decrease, and as he had done so, he thought it was unfair that 
Shop Direct had increased it.
background
Mr H says that when he opened his account  he was told that if he managed his account well 
the APR would decrease. As he did manage his account correctly Mr H feels  aggrieved that 
the APR on the account was then increased.
Shop Direct said that when Mr H opened his account with them  he entered  into a credit  
agreement which clearly  displayed the APR of 44.9%. They said that the Terms and 
Conditions (T and Cs) of the account also set out clearly that they had the right to vary the 
APR so long as they gave  Mr H plenty of notice. Shop  Direct  said that on the 12 March 2016 
they sent Mr H a notice  increasing the APR to 48.9% with effect  from the 7 May 16 to the 
23 September 2017 when  they would undertake a second review. A second  notice was sent 
to Mr H on the 29 July 2017  advising of an APR increase to 59.9% with effect  from the 
23 August 2017.
Shop direct believed they had not acted unfairly and simply acted in accordance  with the 
T and Cs which Mr H had agreed to. As such they did not consider they had acted unfairly.
Mr H was unhappy with Shop  Directs response  and so an investigator from this service 
looked into the complaint but didnt  think  Shop Direct had done anything  wrong.  Mr H 
disagreed with our investigators view and so the matter has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat our investigators 
background summary since  it is accurate  and full. My own background summary  has been 
necessarily brief to avoid repetition. So if I havent  mentioned something  it is not that Ive 
ignored it, rather that I think its not relevant.  This approach allows  me to concentrate  upon 
the determinative issues and avoiding becoming distracted by those which  are peripheral.
I do acknowledge, as have Shop Direct, that Mr H managed his account very well. But the 
rules which govern the operation of his account  are the T and Cs which Mr H agreed to. I 
have looked at paragraph 14 and can see that Shop Direct do have the power to vary the 
APR for commercial reasons. 
Paragraph 19 also gives Shop  Direct  the power to vary the T and Cs if there are any 
changes which in their view would  affect  a persons credit status. Shop Direct have 
explained that they get updated credit  information  from the credit reference  agencies every 
28 days which they use to decide  whether the APR on a customers  account is still 
appropriate. And Shop Direct  did review  Mr Hs account  on two occasions  taking into 
account that information. As they had sight of those credit reference agency  reports it seems 
more likely that they did contain information which might affected their view on the 
appropriate level of APR for Mr Hs account.
Ref: DRN42681062Ive also looked  into the T and Cs to see if there is anything printed in there  which says that 
good management of an account will lead to a reduction in APR,  but there isnt anything. All 
it says is that the APR will be subject to the customers credit status. 
I know Mr H says he did not receive notice of Shop  Directs intention  to increase the APR but 
he continued to use his card after the increases and receive statements which  would show 
the interest rate had increased. I know Mr H has said that had he known of the increase he 
would have challenged Shop Direct, but he did not object when the first increase was made. 
Shop Direct say the 2 notices were sent to Mr H, and although  I cannot  say for certain that 
he did not receive them, I am satisfied that they were in fact sent.  
So I think that Shop Direct did act in accordance with the T and Cs by giving more than 
30 days notice of their intention to increase the APR,  in both March 2016 and July 2017, and 
having done so I cant say that they have acted unfairly.
I know Mr H will be disappointed with my decision Im not satisfied  that Shop Direct have 
treated him unfairly, so Im not going to ask it to do anything further, and Im not upholding 
Mr Hs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4268106