K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains First Premium Direct Ltd (FPD) mis-sold him a commercial motor insurance  
policy and provided  poor customer service.
Mr Bs been  represented  for the complaint by his wife, Mrs B. For simplicity Ive referred to 
the actions of the representative as being those of Mr B  except  where Ive referred  to her 
directly.
background
In June 2018 FPD sold Mr B a motor trade  insurance  policy. He feels it was mis-sold. He 
says it didnt cover him for carrying scrap metal  as hed requested. Because  of that, and for 
other reasons, he cancelled the policy after a few months. Hes unhappy with the customer 
service FPD provided  including during the sale and when  requiring  proof  of No Claims 
Bonus (NCB). He wants compensation for the distress and inconvenience he feels  FPDs 
caused him.
In response to Mr Bs complaint FPD didnt  accept it had done  anything wrong. But it said it 
would refund him the fees and commission it had earnt from the sale of the policy  about 
£910. Mr B wasnt happy with the response so he came to this service. 
One of our Investigators  considered the complaint.  She didnt recommend FPD pay Mr B 
any compensation or do anything differently. Mr B didnt accept her assessment. So the 
complaint has come  to me for a final decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is an informal service. In line with that this decision doesnt directly  address every 
complaint point Mr Bs made. Ive just responded here to what I consider to be the key 
issues. But Id like to assure  Mr B that Ive considered everything hes said and provided.   
Mr B feels  the policy was mis-sold as it didnt cover  him for carrying scrap metal.  He did ask 
for that cover in one of the sales calls. FPD said he would be covered for it. He says the 
police looked  at his policy  and told him he wasnt. 
The insurer  says Mr B was covered for carrying vehicle scrap  metal.  Ive looked at the 
various policy documents. Having done so, Ive no reason to believe he wasnt covered for 
carrying scrap metal.   So I cant say FPD mis-sold the policy  and was responsible for Mr B 
cancelling his policy. 
A few months after taking  out the cover Mr B changed his address.  FPD said this meant an 
additional premium  of £1,700 would be charged. Hes unhappy about that. But the cost of 
the policy isnt something  determined  by FPD. And it did manage to get the insurer to agree 
not to charge an additional premium. So I cant say it acted unfairly regarding the change of 
address.
Mr B says the increase was quoted as £17,000 not £1,700. Ive seen an email  to FPD from 
the insurers agent. The additional premium  was about £1,700   not £17,000.  Its possible 
Ref: DRN46834502Mr B was told it would  be £17,000. But if that did happen I think its likely it was a genuine 
mistake. And even  if he was told that I cant  see how he lost out as a result. He wasnt  
charged an additional premium in the end. Mr B says FPD didnt change his address 
promptly. Even if thats correct, again  I cant see that he lost out as a result.
Mr B paid a £1,000 deposit. About two weeks later the first finance payment was taken. A 
little while  after that the second payment  was taken. Mr Bs unhappy about that. Ive listened  
to the call where he agreed  to take out the policy. That payment schedule  was explained to 
him. It seems he understood at the time. 
Mr Bs unhappy the finance agreement paperwork doesnt show the £1,000  deposit. He feels 
it wasnt taken into account. I dont agree. The policy cost about £4,646.  The finance 
agreement shows the amount  to be borrowed as £3,646. So it seems  the £1,000 deposit 
was accounted  for. 
The finance  agreement also shows  a transaction fee of £370. This makes the total payable  
under the finance agreement to be just over £4,030. That matches nine payments of about  
£401 plus an initial one of about  £416.  
So it seems  to me the deposit was accounted  for  even if Mr B wasnt provided  with a 
receipt or any paperwork to confirm  it. I dont agree with him when he says he was actually 
charged about £5,500. It seems he was charged  £4,646 plus £370 for the finance. 
The cost of the policy to Mr B included an £800 fee charged by FPD. That seems to have 
been the equivalent of its commission  for arranging the cover.  He says he wasnt  told about 
it during the sale.  
FPDs terms of business  say it will tell its customers of any fees its charging. It says it sent 
him a cover letter explaining the premium and admin fee breakdown  when the policy  was 
sold. He says he didnt  receive it. During the call when he was first told the cost of the cover, 
he was only told the total price.  There wasnt  an explanation  of the £800 fee.
So it seems  Mr B might not have been told about  the £800  fee - despite what FPDs terms of 
business say. It seems it may have initially tried to retain the full amount after the 
cancellation. But it was refunded in full as part of its response to Mr Bs complaint. So even if 
I thought FPD did something  wrong by not explaining the fee or trying to retain the full 
amount, its been  refunded now anyway. 
As part of the complaint response a further £109  was refunded.  I cant be sure but it seems it 
may have  been  an amount Mr B was overcharged by. I say that based  on emails between  
FPD and the insurer.  So I havent treated that as compensation awarded by FPD. 
When Mr B took the policy out he said he didnt have any NCB. After a few months of having 
the policy he told FPD that he had five years. But that didnt result  in a reduction in premium.  
That was the insurers decision  not FPDs. So I cant  say it was at fault for Mr B not being 
given a premium reduction after he revealed his NCB.   
Mr Bs complained about a delay in being  provided with proof of NCB after he cancelled this 
policy. He says FPD didnt act promptly enough to sort the issue out. Ive seen some of its 
correspondence with the insurers agent. It was trying to get the NCB proof for Mr B. 
Perhaps it could  have done  more.  It wasnt provided  by the insurer  until a number of months 
Ref: DRN46834503after the cancellation. But the insurers agent has accepted responsibility  for that. It doesnt  
seem to have been FPDs fault.   
The new policy  taken out by Mr B was cancelled  by his new insurer  but that wasnt 
because he hadnt  shown proof  of NCB.  Instead  it was because the type of NCB he had 
wasnt acceptable to it. 
Mr B feels  FPD delayed  cancelling the policy after he instructed  it to. Having looked at the 
correspondence between  it and the insurers agent Im not persuaded it did. Mr B said he 
wanted to cancel. FPD passed that on the insurers  agent promptly.  It seems to have done 
the same  with the credit provider.   
Mr B says FPDs  caused significant  unnecessary  distress and inconvenience. Ive 
considered everything  hes said. A great deal of the inconvenience experienced seems to 
have come from his decision to cancel the policy. This was in part due to Mr Bs belief the 
policy didnt provide the type of cover  he requested.  But it seems  to me it did. It seems to 
have also been  partly caused  by the proposed (but not applied)  premium  increase following 
the change of address. That was the insurers  action   not FPD. It seems to have avoided  
the extra charge for Mr B. 
The lack of premium  reduction following his revelation of five years  NCB seems to be a 
factor as well. But that again was the insurers  decision   not FPDs. And it was Mr B who 
told it originally that he didnt have any NCB. So I cant say FPD was to blame for the 
inconvenience caused by cancelling the cover. And after that there  was some difficulty  
getting proof of NCB. But that seems  to have mainly  been caused by the insurer.
Mr Bs representative says FPDs staff were  rude and unhelpful. And she says she 
experienced distress  and inconvenience. But I cant award compensation for the direct 
experiences of representatives - only that of a business  customer.  
There was some poor customer service. Its not clear if the correct information was sent to 
Mr B following  the sale of the policy for example. Also Im not sure FPD explained its fee for 
arranging the cover. It also seems to have initially retained the full amount after the 
cancellation. But it seems  FPDs  already  paid some compensation. It probably could have 
fairly kept some of the £800 fee. So its fair to say some of that can be considered 
compensation. Its likely  to be at least £200 which is about the amount Id award for the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience FBDs caused Mr B. So Im not going  to make it 
pay any extra.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont require  First Premium Direct Ltd to pay Mr B any 
compensation or do anything differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4683450