K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about Stagemount  Limited  trading as Quidmarket. Mr S thinks he has repaid 
his last loan in full and it should be closed. He says Quidmarket  has not stuck to the 
repayment plan that was agreed and he doesnt understand why the loan is still running. 
background
Mr S has taken  three loans from Quidmarket.  Some of the information  it has supplied about  
these loans is in the table  below. 
loan  
numberdate startedamount  
borrowedterm (days) date ended
1 04/07/2016 £200 80 22/07/2016
2 09/01/2018 £400 136 01/05/2018
3 30/06/2018 £400 123 outstanding
Mr S has only complained about  loan 3. Mr S hasnt  complained that the loan was mis-sold. 
Shortly after starting loan 3 Mr S contacted Quidmarket to say that he would be unable to 
make the first repayment.
Mr S and Quidmarket corresponded about this and he and the business  arranged various 
repayment plans  over the coming few months. There  isnt any dispute  about these earlier  
arrangements. But I have looked  at all of the correspondence about these arrangements  and 
the ongoing problems Mr S had repaying  loan 3.
Going forward I can see that Quidmarket contacted Mr S by text message on 
17 October 2018. This message  explained  that after making a repayment of £50 Mr S would 
still owe £358.49. 
And on 22 October 2018, Quidmarket and Mr S, started a further repayment plan. The email 
Quidmarket sent showed  that Mr S would repay £50 a month for the coming four months. 
The dispute  is about this arrangement. Mr S made these repayments,  paying £50 in October 
2018, November  2018, December 2018  and January 2019. 
I can see that after this time Quidmarket  again tried to arrange a repayment  plan with Mr S. 
It informed him of the amount  he still owed  and asked he repay this in four instalments. Mr S 
made his complaint at this time. As far as I can see Mr S hasnt  made any further  
repayments to the loan.  
Mr S has provided some  of his bank statements and Quidmarket has provided a statement  
of accounts. These show that Mr S borrowed £400  and he needed to repay £661.32 in total. 
Mr S has repaid £453.48. Quidmarket says he still owes  just over £200 of the original  
contract. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought that Mr S still owed Quidmarket 
part of the loan and it was reasonable that he repay it. She didnt think that Quidmarket  had 
acted unreasonably when it tried to arrange repayment plans. 
Ref: DRN42433182Mr S didnt agree with our adjudicators findings.  He said that the emails he received about 
the repayment plans shouldve superseded the original contract and his liability  should  end 
when he repaid the amounts detailed  in the email  of 22 October 2018. And he said he had 
paid the full amount borrowed plus a significant  amount  of interest  in any event. 
I have noted all of the correspondence  and in particular the offers  that Quidmarket has 
made, and how it tried to settle this complaint. But ultimately agreement  wasnt reached 
between all of the parties  so the complaint has been  passed  to me to issue  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
As I said above, the sets of information  provided by both parties to the complaint show  that 
Mr S hasnt repaid  the full contractual amount for this loan. As far as I can see he has still 
has around £200 remaining from the original  contract.  
I can see that Mr S had some repayment problems after the loan was started. But I dont 
think the arranged  repayment plans should supersede the original contract. I say this 
because the point of a repayment plan is to assist  in repaying any original debt, rather than 
start a new arrangement  entirely. And I havent  seen  any other  persuasive  reason why 
Quidmarket should  write  off Mr S debt. 
So, Ive concluded  that Mr S still owes  part of the original loan contract and Quidmarket 
wasnt acting incorrectly when it asked  Mr S to repay these  amounts.  
Mr S has also said that he believes he was misled by the correspondence Quidmarket sent 
about the repayment plans. Particularly the one arranged on 22 October 2018
But I dont agree that this was the case.  Whilst I can see that the email of 22 October 2018 
didnt contain  a total figure that Mr S owed, he had been informed of this a few days  earlier.  
And this email doesnt say that the loan would end when the repayment plan finished. And 
this was not the first repayment  plan that had been arranged. So, I dont think it was 
reasonable for Mr S to think that the four payments of £50 were  the only amounts he would 
need to repay to discharge his liability. 
And it follows from the above that I dont think Quidmarket was acting  unreasonably  when it 
tried to arrange a further repayment  to pay the remaining loan amounts. And I havent seen 
any correspondence where it was acting unfairly  in this regard. 
So, overall, Im not upholding Mr S complaint. Im sure he wont agree and I can appreciate 
the disappointment  that this will cause him. 
And I would remind Quidmarket of its responsibility  to treat Mr S fairly, positively and 
sympathetically in respect of any money he owes. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Ref: DRN42433183Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2020.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4243318