K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about poor handling  by U K Insurance  Limited (UKI)  of a claim she made  
under her travel insurance policy after she became ill while  on holiday abroad.  In particular  
she complains about delays in repatriating her to the UK.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 July 2019, a copy  of which is attached 
to, and forms part of, this decision.
UKI didnt  comment on the provisional decision.  Mrs S responded to say, in summary, that:
the communication from UKI to Mrs S was extremely  poor causing her excessive 
stress and anxiety;
there was also poor communication  with Mr S which  caused  him worry;
she thought  UKI could  have started making  plans for flights  while waiting to tick the 
PRPA box;
she suffered distress because of the poor diet available at the hospital, which she 
told UKI about; and
she thought  her fitness to travel could have  been decided much  sooner  by 4 
October 2018  which would have  enabled  her repatriation on 9 October 2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the whole experience was very distressing for Mrs S, and also her 
husband. I assure Mrs S that I have read the diary  of her hospital  stay that she supplied,  as 
well as UKIs contemporary account of events. In considering  this complaint I need to decide  
how much  of Mrs Ss distress I can reasonably say that UKI was responsible for.
UKI has acknowledged that its communication with Mrs S was poor,  and has paid her 
compensation of £200 for this. I accept that Mr S also suffered worry because  of the poor 
communication between  UKI and Mrs S. But Mr S isnt a party  to this complaint. So I still 
consider the £200 compensation paid to Mrs S is reasonable for the distress UKIs  poor 
communication caused her.
Before an airline  will accept a booking for an ill passenger it requires a certificate that the 
passenger is fit to fly. In arranging such a certificate  UKI has a duty both to the passenger 
and to the airline to ensure that the passenger is fit to fly. Before  it can issue  a certificate it 
needs to have all the available medical  information.
The last part of this process is the pre-repatriation  patient assessment (PRPA). UKI has 
explained that until it has concluded  this, it isnt in a position to book flights because it 
doesnt know the nature of the repatriation that will be required.
UKI was in a position to conduct the PRPA on the morning  of 6 October 2018. If this had 
been done then, repatriation could  have been arranged for 9 October 2018. However,  UKI 
was unable to get through  to Mrs S at the hospital, although it tried on nine separate 
Ref: DRN43488052occasions that day. And Mrs S didnt have access to a mobile phone or hospital phone to 
contact UKI.
UKIs medical team wasnt available the next day. So it was Monday 8 October before the 
PRPA could  be completed. By then it was too late to arrange  repatriation on 9 October 2019. 
For the reasons  I explained in the provisional decision, I dont think UKI couldnt reasonably 
have arranged repatriation after that sooner than 14 October 2019, when Mrs S returned to 
the UK.
I understand that Mrs S was unhappy  about conditions at the hospital  she was admitted to, 
particularly the diet available. However  this isnt something over which  UKI had any control,  
so I cant reasonably hold it responsible for this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint, and make  
no order against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Lennox towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN43488053COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION  OF 15 JULY 2019
complaint
Mrs S complains about poor handling by U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  of a claim she made under her 
travel insurance  policy after she became ill while on holiday abroad.  In particular she complains about 
delays in repatriating her to the UK.
background
In September 2018 Mrs S was taken ill while  on holiday abroad with her husband, Mr S. She was 
taken to hospital  where she was diagnosed with a condition that apparently she hadnt suffered from 
before. UKI was notified. After a few days Mr and Mrs S decided  that as Mrs S expected to be able to 
return home in a few days, and Mr S was running out of medication for a condition he suffered from,  it 
would be safer for him to return to the UK, which he did.
While the doctor  treating  Mrs S thought she could be discharged after a few days, UKIs medical 
advisers said they needed to see a period  of stability  on her new medication  before considering 
repatriation. They would then need to assess her fitness to fly back to the UK, as the airline would  
need a certificate to this effect.
Because Mrs S was on new medication which she wasnt used to administering, UKIs medical  
advisers said she would have to be escorted by a nurse on the flight  home. UKI would have to 
arrange for the nurse to fly out to the hospital and then accompany Mrs S on the flight  home.
By Friday  5 October 2018, it seemed that Mrs Ss condition was sufficiently stable that she would be 
able to fly back on Tuesday  9 October 2018. But UKIs medical advisers needed to speak to her to 
conduct a pre-repatriation  patient assessment (PRPA) so they could  issue a fit to fly certificate.
On Saturday 6 October 2018 they tried a number of times to ring the hospital to speak to Mrs S and 
carry out the assessment. But because of limited staffing at the weekend they werent able to speak 
to her. Mrs S didnt have  a mobile  phone,  and wasnt able to get to a hospital phone. So she wasnt 
able to phone UKI. 
UKIs medical team werent available  on 7 October 2018, which was a Sunday. So the PRPA  took 
place on Monday  8 October 2018. UKI was happy that Mrs S was fit to fly with a nurse  escort.  But by 
then it was too late to arrange for a nurse to fly out, and to arrange flights back for them both on         
9 October 2018.
It was the end of the holiday season where  Mrs S was, so flights were limited. UKI thought  the best 
option available was a direct flight back to the UK on Sunday  14 October  2018.    Mrs S complained 
about this delay.  UKI investigated alternative flights involving changes  of plane. But a nurse  wasnt 
available to fly out and come  back with Mrs S on an earlier flight. 
So Mrs S returned with a nurse  escort  as arranged on 14 October 2018, and was admitted to hospital 
in the UK which UKI had arranged in advance. She complained to UKI about  poor communication 
while she was in hospital  to explain what was happening,  and about  delays in arranging her 
repatriation.
UKI accepted  her complaint about poor communication.  It acknowledged that it hadnt rung her back 
as promised, that she and Mr S had to keep chasing UKI, and it hadnt  passed on information  
promptly as it became available.  However it didnt agree  that it had delayed her repatriation 
unnecessarily.
Ref: DRN43488054Before arranging  this, its medical advisers needed to be satisfied that she was fit enough  to undertake 
the air journey home. To do this they needed  to speak to Mrs S and conduct a PRPA. They  tried to 
contact Mrs S on multiple occasions on 6 October 2018  without success. They told Mr S about  the 
difficulties they were  having  and suggested Mrs S try to contact them using  the hospital  phone. But 
this didnt  prove possible.
They conducted the PRPA successfully on 8 October 2018.  They were then able to arrange a nurse  
escorted flight  home on 14 October 2018. They  did try to arrange an earlier flight, but werent able to 
source a nurse  to fly out and escort her for an earlier  flight.
UKI paid Mrs S £200 as compensation for its service failures. Mrs S wasnt satisfied with this and 
complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld.  She said both the hospital  and 
UKIs medical advisers thought by 5 October 2018 that Mrs Ss condition was stable enough  for her to 
leave hospital.
However UKI couldnt  contact her to conduct the PRPA  on 6 and 7 October 2018. The investigator 
thought UKI should have  persisted for longer in trying  to make contact on those  dates, which might 
have avoided  the later delays.
She also thought it would have been reasonable for UKI to start exploring  escorted flight  options on 
5 October 2018. It could  have lined  up provisional  arrangements at that stage, which  could have been 
confirmed once  Mrs S was confirmed as fit to fly.
The investigator thought the result was that Mrs Ss repatriation was delayed  by 5 days,  which could 
have been avoided. UKI was aware that Mrs S was alone  in hospital with a language barrier. So she 
thought it could have  done more  to avoid  delays.
UKI had paid Mrs S £200  in recognition of its service failures. The investigator recommended that this 
should be increased to £600, inclusive  of the £200 it had already paid. She also recommended that 
UKI pay Mr S £100 as compensation for the time he spent trying to get information from UKI.
UKI responded to say, in summary, that:
Its medical team couldnt conduct the PRPA  before 6 October 2018 because it needed  to 
assess the medical information it got from the hospital and review this before making the call;
its medical advisers had made nine separate attempts to get through to the hospital on 
6 October 2018 without  success. It didnt  think they could reasonably be expected to do more;
its medical advisers werent available  the next day, which was a Sunday, as they didnt  work 
Sundays;
the PRPA  allows  full information to be gathered so that an appropriate repatriation  can be 
arranged. So repatriation plans  are only finalised after the PRPA. Without the appropriate 
information UKI wouldnt  know  the flight options it needed to be sourcing, and whether  it 
needed to be applying for medical  clearance, depending on the airline; and
all in all, UKI didnt  accept it had caused any delays in arranging repatriation. Until it had the 
information from the PRPA  it wasnt in a position  to make the repatriation arrangements.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
UKI has acknowledged that its communication  with Mr and Mrs S wasnt of the standard  they were  
entitled to expect.  It has paid her £200 as compensation for this which I think is reasonable  in the 
circumstances. So I wont say any more about that aspect of Mrs Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN43488055Although the investigator suggested UKI should separately pay Mr S £100 as compensation  for poor 
communication with him, I dont think  that would be appropriate as he isnt a party  to this complaint. I 
think the £200  compensation UKI has paid Mrs S sufficiently recognises its communication failures.
Whether there was unreasonable delay turns, I think, on what happened on the weekend of 6/7 
October 2018. Up till then I think UKI acted  reasonably  in gathering information on Mrs Ss medical  
condition to ensure it had stabilised.  If it had been able to conduct the PRPA  on 6 October2018, it 
seems likely repatriation would have been arranged for 9 October 2018, and Mrs S would have 
arrived back  in the UKL five days sooner.
Unfortunately, UKIs  medical advisers couldnt make contact with the hospital on 6 October 2019 to 
conduct the PRPA. And Mrs S didnt have access to a mobile phone or a hospital  phone to call UKI.
Although UKI has access  to medical advice on Sundays  for emergency situations, its routine  medical 
advice team doesnt  work on Sundays. So it wasnt able to conduct  the PRPA with Mrs S until 
Monday 8 October 2018. By then UKI had missed  the opportunity to repatriate Mrs S on 9 October  
2018.
I dont think UKI was at fault for the failure  to contact Mrs S to conduct  the PRPA before 8 October  
2018. I think  it acted reasonably after the PRPA to repatriate her as soon  as possible.
Given the complexity of arranging escorted repatriations  I dont think it was in a position  to start 
arranging Mrs Ss repatriation until after the PRPA had been  conducted. So I dont think  it was 
responsible for any delay  in repatriating Mrs S.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence I receive from 
either Mrs S or from UKI by 29 July 2019, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4348805