K821x#15complaint
Miss K has complained  that Sabre  Insurance Company Limited charged her additional  
premiums for her motor  insurance policies.
Reference to Sabre includes its agents.
background
Miss K paid a premium for a policy with Sabre in 2016. Sabre  later told her she hadn't  given  
it the correct date for passing her driving  test. It later said that she also hadn't  told it about  a 
vandalism incident  in 2015. So it charged  her additional premiums to cover  those things.  
After making a claim Miss K later cancelled that policy.
Miss K took out another policy with Sabre  in 2017.  Sabre later found out that Miss K had 
again given the wrong  date for passing her driving test and again  didn't mention the 2015  
vandalism incident.  So Sabra again charged Miss K an additional  premium.
Miss K didn't think that was fair and brought  her complaint to us. Our adjudicator  didn't think 
that Sabre had applied the appropriate  law correctly. But she noted this had been to Miss Ks 
advantage in 2016. So she said Sabre didn't need  to do anything  about the additional 
premium Sabre had charged  for the 2016  policy. But she didn't think  it was fair for Sabre to 
charge an additional premium  in 2017.  To put things  right she said it should reimburse the 
additional premium  charged and add simple interest to that sum.
Sabre didn't agree so the case  has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partly 
uphold it. 
Its not clear why Miss K entered incorrect dates for passing her driving test on both 
occasions, as she certainly had nothing to gain from that. So this appears to have been the 
result of simple mistakes.
But it seems  that Miss K didn't think she had to tell insurers about the incident in 2015  
because, although she told her insurer about  the incident at the time, she didn't make  a 
claim and paid for the repairs herself. But most insurers Im aware of want to know about  all 
incidents affecting their car that have  led to a loss, regardless of whether or not they made a 
claim. So when  Miss K was asked about claims incidents or losses, to answer that question 
fully Miss K needed  to tell Sabre about the 2015 incident, even though she didn't ever make 
a claim against her policy. But Miss K didnt do that. 
So it seems  that Miss K didn't give full and accurate information when applying for her 
policies. But I don't think she did so deliberately or recklessly.  And mistakes  of this nature 
are known in the insurance industry  as careless  misrepresentations. And theres legislation  - 
the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  which sets 
out what insurers may do in such a situation. It says that insurers  may:
 cancel the policy; or
Ref: DRN43722092 tell the consumer that they will settle any future claims on a proportionate basis  (or 
apply other  exclusions  or limitations they would  otherwise have applied). But if the consumer 
isnt happy with that approach, they can cancel the policy themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply charge an additional premium, as Sabre did. 
Instead we think  its reasonable for an insurer to tell to the consumer theres a problem and 
give them  the option of paying  the additional premium  in order  to keep the policy going or 
otherwise to cancel  the policy themselves. 
In response to the adjudicators assessment Sabres noted  that weve previously said that - 
where an insurer would have applied different terms but for a misrepresentation - in some  
cases weve found it reasonable  for the insurer to backdate those terms to the start of the 
policy. That approach is in line with what CIDRA  says. But CIDRA explicitly excludes  
insurers from altering terms relating to the premium.  In other words  as Ive said above, 
CIDRA doesn't allow an insurer to impose  an additional premium. And weve  reviewed our 
approach to cases involving CIDRA  to ensure that they appropriately  take the law into 
account and produce decisions  that are fair and reasonable for all parties concerned.
Sabres also told us that in many  cases it will give the consumer the option of paying an 
additional premium  rather than having the policy cancelled. But that didn't happen in this 
case. Instead Sabre simply charged the additional  premium without giving Miss K any choice 
about how she wished  to proceed. I don't think that was fair, so Ive looked at the impact this 
has had on Miss K across  her two policies.
In 2016 Sabre charged an additional premium, which Miss K paid. Miss K later claimed on 
her policy and Sabre  settled her and the third parties claims  in full. Had she not paid the 
additional premium  then Sabre could have  reduced its settlement proportionately. And that 
would have cost Miss K considerably more  than the additional premium she had already 
paid to Sabre.  So I think shes  actually benefited  from Sabres actions on that occasion.  So I 
don't intend  to direct Sabre to anything  else concerning the 2016 policy.  Sabres suggested 
that this approach indicates bias in favour of Miss K. But Sabre lost the opportunity to reduce 
its settlement on a proportionate basis or to cancel the policy  once it had collected the full 
premium. And it was its decision to do that. So I don't agree that this shows any form of bias 
towards Miss K. 
In 2017 Sabre again impose an additional premium  on Miss K. So it didn't act in line with 
CIDRA. The policy has since  lapsed  so it can't now offer Miss K the option of cancelling  the 
policy. In those circumstances  I think it's fair that it refunds Miss K the additional premium it 
charged her together with the insurance  premium  tax (IPT). It should add simple interest to 
those sums  at a rate of 8% a year from the date it charged the additional premium to the 
date it refunds her.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Sabre Insurance  
Company Limited  to refund  the full additional premium it collected  from Miss K in 2017, 
inclusive of IPT. It should add simple  interest  to that sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date 
it collected the additional premium to the date it refunds her1.
1 If Sabre considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Miss K how much  its taken  off. It should also give Miss K a certificate showing 
Ref: DRN43722093Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN4372209