K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about customer service received in a Clydesdale  Bank Plc branch.
The complaint is brought  on behalf of Mrs S by her son, Mr S.
background
Mr S went  into a Clydesdale  branch in September 2018. He wanted to move some of 
Mrs Ss money to another building society.  He was told this would cost £30. He says he 
initially wanted to complain about  this but then agreed to open a higher  interest  rate paying 
account with Clydesdale. He says the advisor  he spoke to was rude and also gave him 
incorrect information about the best rate available. He then spoke to the branch manager 
who was also rude and intimidating. Mr S ended up taking out the money in cash and 
opening an account with another building society.  So Mr S complained to Clydesdale.
 
Clydesdales complaint handler apologised  to Mr S and the area manager for that particular 
branch also called Mr S and apologised.  Mr S says the area manager told him he would 
investigate this and call him back but didnt.  
Mr S wasnt  happy with this and referred the complaint to our service.  He said he wanted a 
written apology from the advisor and branch manager he spoke to. And he wasnt  happy the 
area manager he spoke with said hed get back to him but didnt. He also said Mrs S had lost 
out because there was a better  rate of interest available to her with Clydesdale  which  he 
wasnt told about.
One of our investigators  looked into this complaint. He thought the apology and written final 
response provided by Clydesdale  was sufficient. He explained to Mr S we couldnt award 
compensation to him as he wasnt a customer of Clydesdale  but Mrs Ss representative. He 
explained the account paying the higher rate of interest was still available to Mrs S. So he 
didnt recommend Clydesdale do anything further.
Mr S was very unhappy  with this. He said Mrs S had taken an account with another  building  
society paying a lower rate of interest than he couldve got with Clydesdale had it told him 
about this rate. He said Mrs Ss should receive compensation for his time,  stress and 
inconvenience. He asked for an ombudsman  to look at this complaint. So its been passed to 
me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint,  Mrs S is Clydesdales customer. So I can only consider compensation for 
any financial  loss shes suffered, and any distress  and inconvenience caused  to her. Mr S 
was the person dealing with Clydesdale here as Mrs Ss power of attorney. But I cannot 
award him compensation for any upset caused  to him, or time spent dealing with this as he 
isnt an eligible customer under our rules.
Ref: DRN49244182Clydesdale has accepted its customer service wasnt as good  as it shouldve been.  But my 
understanding is Mrs S didnt have any dealings with Clydesdale  in this situation; everything 
was done on her behalf by Mr S. So I cant say shes suffered upset or inconvenience 
because of what happened in the branch.  Mr S says Mrs S has suffered upset because  of 
what he has been through. Its possible  this is the case, but I havent seen anything to make 
me think the upset shes suffered warrants a payment of compensation. And as Ive already 
explained, I cant award any compensation for Mr Ss experience, time or upset.
I know Mr S wants Clydesdale  to insist its individual staff members apologise. But its up to 
Clydesdale to decide how it handles complaints. A member  of its complaints team and the 
area manager for the branch have both apologised.  And the complaint handler  followed this 
up in writing on 26 September.  I think this is sufficient in the circumstances.  So Im not going 
to ask it to do anything further.
Turning to the financial loss Mr S says Mrs S has suffered. Mr S says he was told by 
Clydesdale about  an account paying  a rate of 1.6% and not about  another  offering a rate of 
2% which was available.  He says hes lost out because he moved Mrs Ss money to another  
building society paying a rate of 1%. 
Mr S may not have been  told about  the 2% rate, but he did know  about the 1.6%  rate, and 
still chose to move the money elsewhere  to an account paying  1% - less than Clydesdale 
had offered him. The account Mrs Ss money  is now in has instant access,  whereas  the two 
accounts offered  by Clydesdale with higher rates of interest required Mrs S to commit her 
money for between two and five years. Based on this, Im not persuaded that even if Mr S 
was made  aware  of the 2% rate, which required him to commit Mrs Ss savings for five 
years, he wouldve taken this option.  It follows I dont think Mrs S has suffered a financial 
loss. The 2% rate bond is still available and Mr S can apply for this on behalf of Mrs S if he 
wishes to.
Lastly Mr S says Clydesdale is required to send a written final response and it didnt. Ive 
seen a copy of this which was sent on 26 September 2018. Its possible Mr S didnt receive  
this, but its correctly addressed and I think it was likely sent. I cant  hold Clydesdale  
responsible if it hasnt been delivered.
my final decision
I know Mr S feels very strongly  about this, but my final decision is I dont uphold  this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4924418