K820x#14complaint
Mr I has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a number  of 
packaged bank  accounts. Mr I pays a monthly fee for the account which provides several  
benefits in return.
background
Mr Is account history  is as follows:
he opened his account as a Royalties Private packaged account in September 2007
it was upgraded  to a Black account  in July 2011
it was changed  to a Reward  Black account in February 2016
Mr I complains that he was told by RBS that he had to have a packaged bank account in 
order to take out, and continue to secure  lending facilities.  RBS looked at Mr Is complaint 
and agreed to refund the fees plus interest for the Royalties Private account. It said that as 
Mr I did take a loan at the same time as taking the Royalties  Private  account, it thought he 
mightve been given incorrect  information  about needing a packaged account to get a loan.
As RBS has settled the part of the complaint about  the Royalties Private account, Ive only 
considered the Black  account and the Reward  Black  account in this decision.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that RBS mis-sold the accounts  to Mr I and didnt  
recommend that RBS should pay him any compensation. Mr I didnt agree so he asked for 
an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr Is complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr Is complaint a lot of thought, I dont think the Black account was mis-sold to 
him. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr I was given a fair choice when he took the account.
I note that Mr Is main complaint point is in relation to whether he genuinely had a choice 
about taking out the Black  account. Ive also seen that he disagrees that RBS shouldve 
stopped the refund it paid him at the point his account was changed  from the Royalties 
account to the Black  account.
Ive carefully reviewed the records RBS holds for Mr I and I can see that he upgraded his 
account in July 2011. At that time he had an agreed  overdraft limit of £2,400  and he says he 
was still paying  off the loan he took in 2007.
Ref: DRN44016762The records  dont show that Mr I took a loan around the same time as taking the Black  
account. There are no applications   either approved or declined   until April 2014. I also 
cant see that Mr I applied  to increase his overdraft until over three years after taking the 
Black account, in September 2014.
I know that Mr I says he didnt want to jeopardise his chances  of obtaining future lending, 
which is why he agreed to the Black account.  But as he already held a packaged account, I 
think its unlikely hed have believed he had to change to a different packaged  account  to 
continue to secure lending. And even if he did believe that, I dont think  hed have  agreed  to 
the change  which was around  £6 per month more expensive  unless he had any 
intentions of applying  for some sort of lending within a relatively  short timeframe. And based 
on what Ive seen, I dont  think  he did have any immediate borrowing needs and so I think  he 
was aware he had a choice  about upgrading his account.
I know Mr I says the ability to take out future  loans  was important  to him, but on balance,  Im 
not persuaded that he agreed to take the Black account for that reason.  I havent seen any 
lending applications  close enough  to the date of the upgrade, and Mr I already had a 
packaged account, which is what he says he was led to believe he needed in order to 
borrow from RBS.
RBS had to give Mr I enough clear information about the Black account  for him to decide  if 
he wanted it. Like our adjudicator, I think that Mr I was likely  interested in some  of the 
benefits of the packaged  account and chose  it because  of these benefits. I know Mr I doesnt 
agree that his interest in, or use of, the benefits  bears any relevance to whether the account 
was mis sold. But I do think  RBS most  likely told Mr I about the Black accounts  main 
benefits, in order  for him to agree to take it. 
Mr I may not have gone on to use all the benefits, and with hindsight  he might  not feel they 
were good  value for money to him. But this doesnt mean RBS mis-sold the account. 
Its possible that RBS didnt tell Mr I everything it should  have about  the Black  account. But 
for the reasons Ive explained, I havent  seen anything to make me think  that Mr I wouldnt 
still have taken the account even  if RBS had told him more about it. 
When Mr Is account was changed from the Black  account to the Reward Black account, the 
only difference was that the Reward  Black account t offered cashback on certain household 
bills paid by direct debit,  in return for a small increase in the Black  accounts monthly fee.
RBS has shown that Mr I made  this change to his account himself on the internet. The 
account was essentially the same as the Black  account that he was moving from, and Mr I 
instigated this change  himself without the involvement of anyone from RBS.  So I havent 
seen anything to make me think something went wrong during this sale either.
I want to reassure Mr I that Ive looked  at all the information I have about his complaint. And 
Ive thought carefully about everything hes said. But having done so I dont think  RBS mis-
sold the Black account or the Reward  Black account to him. So I dont think it owes him any 
more money than it has already paid him.
Ref: DRN44016763my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4401676