K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Towergate Underwriting Group  Limited declined a claim on his 
landlords insurance policy.
background
Mr B held a landlords  insurance policy in respect of a property he was letting to tenants. 
Those tenants were  evicted under  a possession order  made  in September  2016. They were 
ordered to leave the property by 6pm on a specified date, which  Ill refer to hereafter as the 
eviction deadline.
When Mr B took possession of the property the day after the eviction, he discovered  a 
significant amount  of damage and disrepair.  He made a claim on his insurance with 
Towergate.
Towergate declined  Mr Bs claim. Its loss adjuster reported that a number of areas  of the 
damage were due to neglect, carelessness  or alterations by the tenant  which werent 
covered under the policy. Some damage had been  caused by animals, which  wasnt  covered 
either. Malicious damage wasnt covered  when carried out by tenants or others lawfully on 
the premises, and neither  was theft.  So Towergate said that none  of the damage was 
covered under the policy.
Mr B complained, but Towergate stood by its decision. Through a representative,  Mr B 
referred the matter  to us in November 2016. He said the tenants had used forged documents  
to set up the tenancy, rendering it unlawful. In turn, he argued  that the tenants were  in the 
property unlawfully. And he thought  that much of the damage,  if not all of it, had been  
caused after the eviction deadline  so it ought to be covered.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Bs complaint. She said that the policy didnt cover 
malicious damage caused by tenants. And irrespective of how the tenancy was set up, she 
thought that the occupants were still tenants   by virtue of Mr B requiring them  to pay rent  
until the eviction  deadline. So she didnt think the policy covered any damage  caused  prior to 
that point. She also didnt  think that all of the damage being  claimed  for was malicious: some 
was the result of neglect, some by pets and some  items had been stolen  but wear and 
tear, damage by animals  and theft werent covered  by the policy either.
Our investigator did say, though, that damage caused after the eviction deadline ought to be 
covered. With this in mind, she thought  that some aspects of the claim  damage caused to 
blinds, and to telephone  and internet  wiring   ought to be covered on the basis that this 
could plausibly have  been caused  after the eviction deadline. So she recommended that 
Towergate pay those  parts  of the claim, but not the remainder.
Towergate didnt  accept our investigators  view. It said that even if the damage was caused  
after the eviction  deadline, it would still be excluded under the policy. So it asked that an 
ombudsman review the complaint, and the matter was passed to me to decide.
my initial conclusions
I first reviewed the complaint back in 2017.  My conclusions were different to those  of our 
investigator, in that I didnt think Towergate had unfairly declined the claim. 
Ref: DRN46800272In summary,  I said:
I didnt think any potential argument  around the lawfulness  of the tenancy 
agreement  for which there was little supporting evidence  anyway  meant that the 
occupants of the property didnt qualify as a tenant for the purposes  of the policy.  Its 
not within our remit to decide on whether  a particular tenancy was lawful  or not. If 
there was a court judgement to that effect,  things might be different. But as there 
wasnt, Id have  to take a very narrow and imbalanced  view of the tenancy to use it 
as a basis to require Towergate to pay the claim  which  I didnt think  I could fairly 
do.
Malicious damage caused by tenants wasnt covered  under  the policy. So where 
damage had purportedly been caused maliciously, I said that in order for it to be 
covered it would  at least  need to have been  caused after the eviction deadline. 
I appreciated the plausibility of some of the damage having been caused  after the 
eviction deadline.  But I didnt think there  was enough evidence  to support that had 
actually happened. It seemed to me at least equally as likely that the damage had 
been caused before the deadline  be that moments, hours or over a longer period. 
For example, while I accepted that the tenants wouldnt likely have wished to live for 
long without hot water, they may well have chosen  to damage the water meter shortly  
before the eviction  deadline  at say 5pm  in the knowledge  that they wouldnt be 
there for much longer  anyway.
I also found that the remaining aspects  of the claim  wouldnt be covered as our 
investigator had outlined  where  items  had been neglected, or where damage had 
been caused by animals.  
Mr Bs representative accepted what I said at the time, so we closed our file on the complaint 
in July 2017.
Mr B got back in touch  with us earlier this year, asking that we review the matter and issue  a 
final decision. He said that his representative  had been acting independently  of his 
instructions, so we agreed to reopen  the case and proceed with a decision. 
I reiterated my initial findings to both parties and invited  them  to provide any further 
comments or evidence that they wanted me to take into account. Towergate didnt respond 
with anything more,  but Mr B discussed his thoughts with our investigator.  Ive listened  to a 
recording of that conversation  and note that, in summary, he still thinks its more likely than 
not that most  of the major damage was caused to his property after the eviction deadline.
Ref: DRN46800273my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  and Ive taken Mr Bs further  comments 
into account. But the points he raised are things Id thought about  previously   so theyve not 
led me to reach a different  conclusion. Ill explain why in a little more  detail.
Mr B remains of the view that its most likely the tenants wouldve taken to maliciously 
damaging the property  at the end of their time there.  I dont disagree with that. But that still 
leaves only a short window  in which the damage would need to have been caused if it was 
to be considerable  under  the policy terms. 
The eviction deadline was 6pm on the set date. I understand  that Mr B and his 
representative waited  until around  3am for the tenants to leave, but they didnt. When  he 
returned around 9am the following day, theyd  gone.  So its not clear exactly how long after 
the deadline the tenants remained in the property. But it was only a matter  of hours. And I 
understand that during  that time, theyd been packing up their possessions and loading  a 
removal van. With Mr B and his representative watching them until 3am, it seems theyd had 
little cause for concern about the tenants actions  until 2am  when they locked  the door. 
That appears to have left an even shorter window  within which  the tenants mightve set 
about causing damage to the property.
Its also evident that Mr B (or at least his represented) had concerns about these tenants   
and their treatment of the property  over much  of the life of the tenancy. Mr Bs 
representative wrote to them with a warning  about the condition of the property  which he 
described as rapidly diminishing  back in 2015. The tenants also behaved unpredictably 
and somewhat erratically  allegedly damaging phone and internet cables (and surrounding 
structures) in response to fears they were  being  spied on. All this makes it even harder to 
say with any certainty that the damage  at issue here was caused after the eviction deadline.
So while I accept that some of the damage  was caused maliciously and this may well have 
been at the end of the tenants time in the property, I dont think  I can safely say that any or 
all of it was caused  after the 6pm deadline  and not before. I accept that the tenants wouldnt 
have wished to live without certain amenities  like hot water   for long. But I still think  its at 
least equally  as likely  that they caused damage to facilities like the water meter  earlier  on the 
eviction day, as opposed to the early  hours  of the following morning.
And for the reasons explained previously, I dont think any other areas of damage were  
covered either  as it fell under the excluded categories of wear and tear, damage  caused by 
animals or theft (which contained specific exclusions applicable to tenants  and unless it 
followed violent and forcible entry).
I understand from his comments and the earlier submissions made by his representative that 
this has been  an extremely difficult time for Mr B  both in terms of the cost and the distress 
these problems have  caused. So while Im sorry to disappoint him further, I dont think 
Towergate did anything  wrong in declining  his claim.  
Ref: DRN46800274my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4680027