K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ps representative, their son Mr Z, complains on their behalf that they were mis-
sold a reviewable  whole  of life policy by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) 
Limited. 
In summary,  Mr Z says:
Mr and Mrs P were  unaware the plan would be subject to reviews  or that cover  could 
be reduced.
Theyre disappointed  about the reduction in cover and also the surrender value. 
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and initially recommended  it be upheld on 
the basis that there was no need for cover to go beyond  Mr and Mrs Ps retirement and the 
cost would increase,  when their income  would  fall. 
Having considered Sun Lifes  response to his initial view the adjudicator was persuaded to 
change his mind. In summary,  he said:
Sun Life pointed out that in a recent phone call Mr P still wanted life cover.
Affordability wasnt an issue to date, and the premiums had been paid to date.
Although in 2016, the sum assured was reduced from £82,916 to £73,516, and in 
2017, the sum assured  was reduced to £23,758.
Mr and Mrs P should take note that this policy (on a maximum  cover  basis) has run 
satisfactorily for 25 years on its initial  premium  of £50 a month,  without indexation. 
Its good value  and outlived  any term assurance for 21 years.  
Sun Life also didnt  offer joint term assurance, and the sum of two term assurance 
policies wouldve been more expensive.  
Mr Z disagreed with the adjudicators view.  In summary, he maintains his position that the 
plan was mis-sold and that Sun Life is side stepping  the issue of mis-selling. Using his self 
and his wifes policy as an example, he also doesnt accept that that a term assurance policy 
would have cost more in 1991. He requested further information from Sun Life. Hes 
concerned that Mr and Mrs P might have been pushed  down  the route of a whole  of life 
policy because Sun Life didnt offer joint term assurance cover. 
The adjudicator having considered the additional  points wasnt  persuaded to change  his 
mind. He maintained  Mr and Mrs P wanted cover  to continue long term, and with two young  
children in 1991, the recommendation was suitable. They  knew the policy  was reviewable 
but didnt know  the cover could reduce by so much in a year. But as it was made clear there 
was a risk and that the sum assured wasnt guaranteed, he didnt  think  the complaint should 
succeed. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN40731712Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, despite  
what Mr Z says, Im not satisfied that the reviewable  whole of life policy was mis-sold or was 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs P.
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr and Mrs Ps strength of feeling  about  this matter. 
Mr Z has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered very carefully. However, I hope  Mr and Mrs P wont  take the fact my findings 
focus on what I consider  to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr Z and the business,  and reach what I think is an independent,  
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Its important to reiterate  that the type of policy Mr and Mrs P are complaining  about  is 
known as a reviewable whole of life insurance. Its not set up for a specific  term, but is 
instead designed to pay out on death  whenever  it occurs. 
On the face of the evidence and on balance, Im satisfied they wanted to increase their 
limited life cover in place  at the time, not only to provide protection  for two young  dependent  
children, but for whole of their lives. In the circumstances I dont think the recommendation 
was unsuitable.  
At the start of the policy, the amounts of the cover and monthly premium are based on 
assumptions about a number  of different factors, including the future cost of life cover and 
investment performance, that arent  known at the start. 
Some businesses provide illustrations, which can only give an indication of what the cost of 
premiums are likely  to be, they offer no guarantee as to the likely cost of or increased cost of 
the premiums. Despite what Mr Z says, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs P would have been 
provided with documentation that set out the reviewable nature of the policy  at the point  of 
sale. 
In simple terms, each premium paid into the policy is split two ways.  The first part is used to 
pay for the cost of cover in that month.  The remainder is invested into a fund or funds. So, 
its not practicable to invest more  of the premium.   I note in this case  Mr and Mrs P chose to 
invest 50% in the Managed fund and 50% in the Equity fund. 
The cost of the cover is also not fixed and actually increases with age. This doesnt  mean  
the policy is age discriminatory or a trick,  it just takes account  of the higher risk the insurer 
will have resulting from customers  increased  age. In this case  the hope  is that the 
investment element will grow enough to fund the shortfall when the policy reaches the point 
that the cost of cover becomes greater than the premium. But again there are no 
guarantees. 
Ref: DRN40731713Policies are reviewed regularly to check how theyre performing against the original 
assumptions. But at each  review, the insurer also needs to make new assumptions about 
the cost of cover and investment performance in the future. Thats why its virtually 
impossible to predict future premium increases and percentages. 
I note, albeit with hindsight, the plan (on a maximum cover basis)  has run satisfactorily for 25 
years on its initial premium of £50 a month, without indexation.
Once these calculations are completed, the insurer can determine whether the policy  has 
passed the review,  usually meaning  no changes  to cover or premium are required, or 
failed  usually  meaning the policyholders will be offered the choice of either paying a 
higher premium to maintain the same level of cover  or accepting  reduced cover for the same  
premium. This explains why Mr and Mrs Ps level of cover has reduced. I note in 2017 they 
were given the option to maintain the level of cover  by taking out a top up policy but they 
decided not to given the cost.  
Ive carefully considered  what Mr Z has said about what Mr and Mrs P were (and werent)  
told about the policy when it was arranged.  But having  considered  everything they and the 
business have  said, I dont think their comments alone are enough for me to say the policy 
was mis-sold. I must take into account the explanatory literature  that the business says they 
were given when  the policy started, but also the correspondence following the reviews.  
This explains the premiums were  reviewable and were subject to increase. So on balance, 
Im satisfied the policy allowed the business to do what it was doing and that it didnt mislead  
Mr and Mrs P about how it would work.
In other  words Im satisfied that they were made aware that the policy  was reviewable and 
that the premiums  were  likely to increase  to maintain the level of cover they wanted. 
Im mindful of Mr Zs point  about  the term assurance  policy, but Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that Mr and Mrs P were sold a whole  of life policy because Sun Life didnt have a joint term 
assurance policy. In any case,  I dont  agree  that it would have been a suitable  alternative, 
particularly given that it would have been  in place for 20 or so years at most, until their 
youngest child reached the age of 21. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
adjudicator. Furthermore,  I realise my decision isnt what  they want to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate their frustration, Im not persuaded to require  the business  to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr and 
Mrs P what  they want.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4073171