K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains Nationwide Building Society applied charges for returned direct debits even 
though hed already cancelled them.
background
Mr R says he complained  to Nationwide by phone  in April 2019 but hasnt had a response.  
He wants Nationwide  to remove his account from debt collections, restore his account to the 
position it was in October 2018. And he wants a response from Nationwide  in writing.
Nationwide said it was dealing  with another complaint by Mr R but hadnt  received a 
complaint from him about the direct  debits. After this Service  was involved it issued a final 
response letter dated 19 July 2019. It said that six direct debits and one standing  order  were  
returned between  6 September 2018 and 20 September  2018. It could see from its records  
Mr R had phoned Nationwides  Collections  Department on 22 September 2018 about his 
financial arrangements.  During the course of the conversation he said hed cancelled  his 
direct debits and standing orders. The agent confirmed that all direct debits and standing 
orders had been  cancelled in accordance with his wishes. But Nationwide  couldnt  now say 
exactly when they had been  cancelled.  It said Mr R contacted  it again  on 30 November 2018 
to discuss the charges  but he ended the call before  it could review  them  further. Although  it 
didnt think itd done anything wrong it refunded  the returned charges to Mr Rs account as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator thought Nationwide had dealt  with Mr Rs complaint fairly.  Even  though 
Nationwide couldnt  say when Mr R had cancelled the direct debits and sanding order  itd 
refunded the charges of £35. This put Mr R back into the position he wouldve been in had 
the charges never been applied. 
Mr R was very unhappy about this. He didnt think it was right that Nationwide  didnt provide 
any evidence about when he cancelled his direct  debits  and the standing  order. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R told Nationwide hed cancelled his direct  debits and standing  order online.  Nationwide  
explained to us that it cant access such records after more than six months. There  isnt any 
doubt that Mr R cancelled these. The difficulty is Nationwide  cant tell him when. Only that it 
would have been between 20 September 2018  and 22 September  2018. It says it cant 
access any such records after six months  and as our role is limited  theres  nothing  we can 
do about that. Under our rules we cant  tell Nationwide what systems it should  have  in place 
to access these records. But if we think a bank has made a mistake and the customer has 
lost out we try and put him or her back into the position they wouldve been  in had the 
mistake not been  made. I cant see Nationwide has made any mistake  in these charges.  But  
in any event its refunded  them as a gesture of goodwill so I cant see Mr R has lost out over 
them.
Ref: DRN44704562Mr R wants his account removed from the Debt Collection Agency. Before the direct debits 
and standing order left Mr Rs account and were returned, he was already  over his overdraft 
limit. Nationwide wrote to him on 14 September 2018 about this. And he phoned  it on 22 
September 2018. He said he wanted  to sort out his account and told the agent  hed 
cancelled his direct  debits. But I can see that even  without the £35 charges Nationwide 
applied Mr Rs account remained  above  the overdraft limit.
Nationwides Collections and Recoveries Department  wrote to him about  this several times 
between 14 September 2018 and13 February 2019. On the last occasion  it explained that if 
Mr R didnt make a payment it would  refer his account to a Debt Collection Agency.  So I 
cant fairly find Nationwide did anything wrong  when  it did this and I cant  ask it to take his 
account back from the agency. 
I know how strongly Mr R feels about this so I know he will be upset by my decision.  But for 
the reasons Ive given Im not going to ask Nationwide to do anything more.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4470456