K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy that Santander  UK Plc blocked their account and refused to 
return funds to them.
Background 
In September  2018 two transfers were made into Mr and Mrs Os Santander account for 
£5000 and £3000. Following the payments, Santander placed  a restriction  on their account  
on 3 October 2018 and requested that they provide evidence of their entitlement  to these 
payments.
Mr O who complains on behalf of Mr and Mrs O says that whilst  Mrs O was travelling 
abroad, she used  a local money exchange service to transfer money  back to their UK 
Santander account. Mr O attended a branch of Santander and supplied copies of Mrs Os 
foreign bank account statements.  These showed the transfers out of her account for the 
same amount that was received into their joint account.
Eight days after supplying  evidence regarding the transfers,  Mr O contacted Santander  to 
ask for an update  on the block on their account.  But Santander said it hadnt  received the 
evidence Mr O had supplied in branch.  Mr O supplied the information requested  again  and 
made a complaint to Santander  about  the restrictions placed on their account and the delays 
caused.
Following a review of the account and payments, Santander informed Mr and Mrs O that the 
funds that had entered the account had been confirmed as originating from fraud. They  
advised Mr and Mrs O to contact the sender of the funds and the police. Santander informed 
them that as a result of the receipt of fraudulent funds they would be closing their account  
and withholding the remaining balance. 
Santander apologised for the inconvenience caused, but said it had to follow  relevant 
legislation and regulations. It offered Mr and Mrs O £100 for any incidental costs  incurred.
Mr O remained  unhappy with the outcome of his complaint  as hed supplied evidence  the 
funds originated from a legitimate source  and had suffered  financial  difficulty as a result of 
the actions of Santander resulting in a delayed payment to his credit card  so he brought 
his complaint to our service.
An investigator here looked into things  and thought Mr and Mrs O shouldnt be reimbursed 
the £5000  as this had originated from a victim of fraud and should  be returned  to them.  
However, he did think Mr and Mrs O were  entitled to the remaining balance  on the account, 
plus interest, as Santander  didnt have sufficient evidence that this originated  from fraud. He 
also felt that the £100 paid in compensation was sufficient to cover  the delays  caused  by 
Santander when  Mr O had to resubmit evidence hed already provided.  But he didnt think 
that the charges incurred from Mr and Mrs Os unpaid direct debits was Santanders  fault as 
Mr and Mrs O had sufficient notice to rearrange  payments  when they discovered their 
account had been frozen.
Santander responded to our investigator  saying that it would agree to his recommendations. 
With the exception  of the £5000 that originated from fraud, it agreed to allow the withdrawal  
of the remaining balance plus interest. It also agreed  to refund the account fees and deduct 
any interest earned on the account during this period.  
Ref: DRN43689792Our investigator relayed this offer to Mr O, but he disagreed. He felt that both he and Mrs O 
had also been  a victim of fraud and should be provided with the £5000 they are entitled  to. 
As Mr O was unhappy with our investigators opinion, the matter has been passed to me for 
a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Prior to issuing my findings, I contacted both Mr O and Santander  regarding  this complaint. 
Having spoken  with Mr O, he now accepts that the £5000 that originated  from a victim  of 
fraud should be returned to them. But he is still unhappy  that the remaining balance is being  
withheld.
Santander also changed its stance on returning  the remaining balance. It said that whilst the 
£3000 hadnt directly originated from fraud,  the account from where they originated  was 
closed due to fraudulent  activity. It also thought that as both payments originated from the 
same source abroad  and one was confirmed  fraudulent  it added weight that the other 
transfer is likely to have  originated from criminal  activity. Santander concluded that Mr and 
Mrs O shouldnt benefit from the remaining funds and said that it would review this if further  
evidence surrounding  the origin  of the funds  was provided.
Having seen the evidence provided by both parties, Im not of the same opinion  as 
Santander. Whilst Santander is within its right to withhold funds they suspect of originating  
from fraud and investigate their origin, I dont think its fair or reasonable to continue  
withholding the accounts remaining balance from Mr and Mrs O.
Mr and Mrs O have supplied a consistent and compelling testimony as to the provenance of 
the two transfers  into their account and have  claimed to also be a victim of fraud themselves. 
Mr O has supplied documentation supporting his testimony. The statements provided from a 
foreign bank account belonging to Mrs O clearly show two transfers from Mrs O to two third 
party accounts on separate days.  These two transfers coincide with the £3000  and £5000 
transfers that were  made to their Santander account. Whilst I acknowledge the fact that 
there is no continuity in terms of how the money went from foreign money  exchange service  
to their account in the UK, I think it reasonable to take into consideration that this is a 
common method in which people transfer  money  from foreign countries.  And without any 
evidence to the contrary, I have no reason to disbelieve  the evidence  and testimony  Mr O 
has provided.
In addition to the above,  whilst I accept  that the originating bank account was closed due to 
fraud, I have  been provided with no evidence that the £3000 that entered Mr and Mrs Os 
account had directly originated from fraud.  In fact, the sending  bank has provided testimony 
that these funds were  made up of cash deposits into the account  and therefore werent 
requesting that the money be returned.  
When adding the above to the fact that Mr and Mrs O have complied with Santanders 
investigation, provided evidence when asked  to do so and have remained consistent  in the 
reasons why they were expecting the money  into their account, I think this provides 
persuasive evidence  of their entitlement to the remaining funds. And whilst I can understand 
Santanders caution, I think Mr and Mrs O have done all they can in these  circumstances to 
Ref: DRN43689793prove they were  expecting these funds with the only evidence that is available to them.  I also 
think that their willingness  to accept the loss of £5000  as it had come  from a victim of crime 
 shows their character in a positive light despite  their claim to have lost this money 
themselves. 
For the reasons  Ive given, I think Santander  should  return the remaining account balance  to 
Mr and Mrs O and provide interest for the time they have  not had the benefit of this money.
Santander has paid Mr and Mrs O £100  for the inconvenience caused to them. Considering 
that Mr O had to resend  the evidence supporting his testimony  to Santander after already 
providing this in branch, I think this is a fair award for the inconvenience caused  to them for 
this. I also agree with the investigators  finding  that the charges incurred by Mr and Mrs O for 
the non-payment of a bill wasnt the fault of Santander as they had sufficient  notice to 
arrange payment  by another method.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to:
Rework Mr and Mrs Os account  to remove any account fees and interest paid during 
the time they didnt have access to the account.
Release the remaining balance  minus the £5000 if this hasnt already been  
removed  to Mr and Mrs O.
Pay 8% simple annual  interest  on the remaining balance from 3 October 2018 to the 
date of settlement.
If Mr and Mrs O havent  yet withdrawn their £100 in compensation, Santander  should  
ensure this is released with the remaining balance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 October  2020.
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4368979