K821x#15complaint
Miss W is unhappy  with the service  she received  from Barclays  Bank  UK Plc, after it blocked  
a payment she was trying  to make from her current account. Miss Ws mother has helped 
her with the matter  throughout and was involved on some of the calls, so some references to
Miss W will include her mothers involvement.
background
Miss W was trying  to buy some trainers, but the payment  was blocked by Barclays as it had 
concerns the transaction may not have been  genuine.
Miss W called Barclays about this and spoke to someone in the relevant team, and was 
asked to call through  again using the online banking  app. Miss W then spoke to an adviser 
who tried to take her through  some security questions, but he said she didnt answer them  all 
satisfactorily  and Miss W was told shed  need  to visit a branch with identification.
Miss W asked instead to speak to a manager, which the adviser said hed arrange. But then 
said that wasnt possible, and the only way to resolve this was the branch visit.
When Miss W then went to a branch she was turned away,  with staff advising her it was 
closing soon and they wouldnt have time to verify her identity.
Because of this Miss W called Barclays again,  saying how dissatisfied she was with the 
matter, as all shed  been trying to do was buy some trainers. On this occasion the adviser  
was able to take Miss W through  some additional  security questions and her account  was 
unblocked.
Miss W complained, she felt shed had to go to unreasonable  lengths  to have her account  
unblocked  including a wasted trip to the branch.
Barclays didnt uphold  Miss Ws complaint so she referred it to our service. An investigator 
here considered the matter and felt Barclays had been reasonable in its actions. Miss W 
didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision to Miss W and Barclays  last month. I explained that I was 
considering upholding Miss Ws complaint, and requiring Barclays to pay her compensation.
I said I understood the need for banks to have robust  security  measures in place and 
therefore wouldnt criticise Barclays for trying to protect Miss W. But I felt Barclays  had 
treated her unfairly in the way it handled  the matter. This, in part, was because Barclays  file 
said problems had been exacerbated by bank error .
Miss W had been told the only way to unblock  her account was to visit a branch with 
identification. And Barclays file said it felt the branch couldve dealt with the matter for
Miss W, even though it was due to close shortly.
I also felt the fact that Barclays was able to later identify Miss W over the phone and unblock 
her account  meant it had some discretion in how it dealt with the matter.  So there seemed to 
be at least one reason,  if not two, for the trip to the branch being wasted. Overall, I said I 
was in agreement  with Barclays that it made matters worse than they needed to be. I felt fair 
compensation for the impact  of that on Miss W would be £100.
Ref: DRN40393732Miss W replied to my provisional  decision  to say she accepted my findings.
Barclays didnt agree though. It said once Miss W had failed security the first time it wasnt 
possible to ask her further questions. Barclays says the adviser was correct  to refer Miss W 
to the branch. It also said there wasnt enough time to remove the block  before closing  time.
Barclays then added  that comments Id referred to in its file had been made before it had 
carried out a thorough  investigation of the complaint. And that once the investigation was 
complete it found  no fault on its part.
With no agreement reached, the matter has been passed  back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same  conclusion I set out in my provisional decision, and 
as summarised above. Ive taken on board the comments  made by Barclays,  and I want  to 
make clear  again that Im not criticising it for trying to protect Miss W. I just believe the way it 
did so caused  unnecessary distress  and inconvenience to her.
During the call in which Barclays says Miss W failed  security, the adviser told her the only 
way to unblock the account was to visit the branch with two forms of identification.  He said 
the branch could then check those and call the relevant team  to confirm Miss Ws identity.  I 
can accept that may be the usual process but I dont believe it to be the only way  bearing 
in mind another adviser found a different way.
Even if the branch referral  was the usual process  to follow  in such circumstances, Im not 
persuaded by Barclays  recent explanation about there not being  enough  time to identify 
Miss W. The notes  in Barclays file are clear in that it felt problems had been exacerbated by 
the banks error. And whilst that view may not have followed  a thorough  investigation the 
notes say:
What was the investigation?
I can see the customer came into the branch 5 minutes before closing time
I believe the branch  could  have dealt with this, this will be fed back 
So it seems  to me at least some  level of investigation had been carried out. And I havent  
seen anything to make me think this aspect was investigated any more thoroughly later on, 
such as comments from branch members or something to show how long the process takes.
Overall, and for the reasons  explained, I still think Barclays could and shouldve done  more  
to help Miss W and that it made matters worse  than they needed to be. It follows  that I still 
believe £100  compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused is fair. 
Ref: DRN40393733my final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
Miss W £100  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October  2019.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4039373