K822xcomplaint
Mr S has complained that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE (ANDI) 
unfairly cancelled  his motor policy.
Reference to Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe  SE includes all its agents.
background 
Mr S bought his policy through a well-known supermarket provider. The insurer of this policy  
is ANDI.  The policy required  Mr S to have a telematics black box. 
On 13 September  2018, ANDI  wrote  to Mr S saying there was a problem  with his black  box 
and it needed  to be checked by its engineer.  It asked  him to arrange an appointment with its 
engineer. It also warned  him if he didnt organise an engineers appointment, his policy 
would be cancelled on 5 October 2018.  
Mr S arranged an appointment  for 1 October 2018 after an earlier one had to be cancelled.  
Mr S said that no one told him what time slot the engineer would  visit on that day, which he 
said wasnt what he normally expected (presumably after his experience of getting his black 
box fitted initially). His father  stayed  home  that day but popped out to the shop only five 
minutes away when  the engineer arrived. However,  Mr S said his sister  was still in the house 
and never  heard anyone knocking  on the door,  as the engineer said he did.
Mr S said the engineer  refused  to wait but Mr S said the engineer confirmed to him, he 
would be contacted for another  appointment to be made. Mr S said this never happened and 
his policy  was then cancelled.
Mr S complained but ANDI failed  to respond so he brought his complaint to us. The 
adjudicator thought ANDI should  remove the cancellation marker. Mr S didnt think this was 
enough so his complaint was passed  to me decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 April and I said the following:
As it was ANDI who thought there was something wrong with the black  box it fitted to 
Mr Ss car, and consequently it then also required an engineer to check  it, I consider  
ANDI has not behaved reasonably to Mr S in the circumstances of this complaint. 
This is because the request for the engineers visit originated from ANDI and not 
Mr S. Also, I dont consider it was reasonable that ANDI simply failed  to provide any 
final response letter to his complaint either.
Mr S did arrange the engineers appointment as ANDI  requested in the prescribed 
time but for whatever reason that engineer didnt give a time slot, didnt wait and 
lastly didnt rearrange the appointment, as promised, therefore  ensuring Mr Ss policy  
was cancelled. I dont  consider that is either fair or reasonable. 
Whilst there is a photo showing  the engineer at Mr Ss house, had he knocked on the 
door according to Mr S, his sister would have answered anyway, even  though his 
father had popped  out. I also consider it wholly unreasonable  in this day and age, to 
require someone  to stay at home  for an entire  working day for such  an appointment 
without providing  some time slot, even just morning  or afternoon. More  especially, 
since it was ANDI who required the engineers visit, not Mr S.
Ref: DRN46257792Further, I consider it unreasonable in these circumstances for ANDI  to fail to 
rearrange the appointment for the engineer and to stop the policy being cancelled 
until the second engineers appointment was either achieved  or not. 
So whilst ANDI did say it would remove the cancellation marker because its clear  the 
engineer didnt give a time slot, I dont consider thats enough.  This cancellation  of 
Mr Ss policy  caused further  trouble and upset  to Mr S, which I consider ANDI now 
needs to put right. 
Therefore, I consider  in addition to removing  the cancellation marker, ANDI needs to 
amend all its internal  and external databases to show the cancellation  occurred due 
to its own error. 
It should also write a letter  to Mr S explaining its error so Mr S can show this to his 
insurers since this cancellation, in order to obtain  a refund of the extra premium, 
which would have been charged to him due to this cancellation by ANDI. This is 
because almost all insurers increase the premium payable substantially when they 
see that another insurer cancelled a policy held by the applicant. If those insurers say 
he would  have been due a refund but they will no longer refund him, then I consider 
ANDI should reimburse Mr S that refund  with interest from the date Mr S paid the 
increased premiums. 
And I think it should pay Mr S the sum of £300  compensation  for the trouble and 
upset it caused  him, as its clear to me this greatly  distressed Mr S. Further, the 
absence of any final response letter from ANDI  ensured Mr S then had to even wait 
longer, for this service to get involved too.
Mr S responded that he had nothing further to add. ANDI  responded that it had sent a final 
response letter on 12 November 2018, which said he didnt  have to declare the cancellation 
to future insurers. Therefore, it didnt agree to pay the compensation.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the file that ANDI  provided to us on 5 February  2019,  no final response letter  was 
enclosed. An agent of ANDI  told Mr S it was them who would  write  any final response letter  
on 20 August 2018 and they said the matter has been passed  on to another  agent. This 
service sent a letter starting  the eight-week  time limit on 9 October  2018  but we never  then 
received a copy of the final response with ANDIs  file on 5 February  2019.  Therefore, I never  
saw any evidence of a final response letter. 
Im awarding compensation for the distress and upset ANDI caused Mr S in cancelling his 
motor policy, which remains, despite the contents of the final response letter, which  ANDI 
didnt forward to us.
However as the final response confirmed in writing  that Mr S didnt have to declare this to 
future insurers I consider  that is sufficient written  confirmation.
 
Ref: DRN46257793my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe  SE to do the following:
Remove the cancellation  marker  from Mr Ss record, if its been recorded.
Amend all internal  and external databases to show that the cancellation occurred due 
to its error only, if necessary.
Pay Mr S £300 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4625779