K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with what Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage)  did when he 
made a claim following a car accident. 
 
background
Mr S took out motor  insurance with Advantage in February 2018.  At the time he was asked  
have you committed any driving offences or had any Fixed Penalty Notices  in the last 5 
years. Mr S told Advantage about  a speeding offence and Advantage agreed to provide 
cover. However, when  it looked into a claim Mr S made following an accident  in May 2018 it 
found he had a further speeding offence that he hadnt disclosed.  Advantage said if it had 
known about this it wouldnt have provided  cover. So it voided his policy from the inception 
date and refunded  the premiums Mr S paid. 
Mr S was unhappy about this and also raised  concerns about Advantage paying out for 
damage to the third partys vehicle. And he was unhappy with its customer service. 
Advantage didnt  agree  it had done anything wrong in voiding the policy or paying out to the 
third party. But it accepted there had been poor service for which it agreed to pay £100. 
Our investigator agreed Advantage were entitled to void the policy.  And he didnt  think  it had 
done anything  wrong in paying out on the third party claim. But he agreed there had been 
poor customer service - in particular Mr S had been  told a number of times not to worry 
about the undisclosed offence and that his claim would be paid. He thought  Advantage 
should increase  the proposed compensation to £200  in recognition  of this. 
Advantage didnt  agree  and said this figure  didnt reflect the impact on Mr S of its errors. 
Mr S didnt agree either. He said he was told by Advantage the worst case scenario would 
be that his policy would  be amended and he might have to pay more for it. He said it was 
unacceptable it was then voided. He also said Advantage should have checked  what  
speeding offences he had when he took the policy out instead of waiting until hed made  a 
claim. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
voidance of the policy
When taking out the policy Mr S had a duty to take reasonable  care when answering  the 
questions asked by the insurer. And the insurer needed to make sure the questions  it was 
asking were clear. In this case he was asked have you committed  any driving offences or 
had any Fixed Penalty  Notices  in the last 5 years. 
I think that would have made it clear to Mr S he needed  to disclose details of his speeding 
offences. But while he did provide details of one offence he didnt tell Advantage about the 
other one. I appreciate  that was because  of an error on his part and he didnt  deliberately try 
and withhold  this information. However,  I think if hed been taking reasonable care he would 
have provided  the correct  information  and it was his responsibility  to do so. 
And Advantage has provided evidence to show it wouldnt have provided cover if it had 
known about Mr Ss further  speeding  offence.  Where thats the case an insurer  can cancel  
Ref: DRN44789012the policy from the outset  and refund the premiums that have been paid. I appreciate  that 
came as a shock to Mr S particularly as he was away at the time and had to source 
alternative cover at short notice. But Advantage was entitled to void the policy and I think  its 
right it told Mr S about that at the earliest  opportunity. If it hadnt hed have been at risk of 
driving while uninsured.  
the third party  claim
The terms of Ms Ss policy, in common with other  motor insurance policies, do allow 
Advantage to settle third party claims if thats  the right thing to do. And I can see that 
Advantage paid out to the third party prior to voiding Mr Ss policy. So Ive thought about 
whether in doing so it made  a fair and reasonable decision thats in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
I appreciate Mr S believes the third party was on their mobile phone at the time of the 
accident. But there dont appear  to be any independent witnesses to the accident or other 
evidence (such as CCTV). And it doesnt appear to be in dispute  that Mr S ran into the back  
of the third partys car. Its not unusual for a driver  who bumps into another from behind to be 
held at fault for an accident, because a driver  should leave enough room in case  the car in 
front stops. So I can understand  why Advantage decided to settle the claim.
And in deciding what to pay I can see Advantage relied on an engineers  report which  set out 
the pre-accident  value of the third party vehicle (less salvage costs).  I understand it paid the 
third party that amount  and I dont think it acted unreasonably in doing  so. And where  a 
policy has been voided Advantage is able to recover those costs  from Mr S. 
customer service  issues
I agree  there have  been problems with the customer service  Advantage provided to Mr S 
when dealing with this claim.  When responding to his complaint  it accepted  there had been 
delay in progressing  the claim and that Mr S had to chase matters unnecessarily.  It also 
accepted hed been provided with incorrect information. Ive listened to the call Mr S had with 
Advantage when  it found out about his undisclosed  speeding offence. During that call the 
advisor reassures him on a number of occasions that this wont  prevent his claim being  paid 
and say the worst case scenario is that there  might  be an additional premium to pay. 
That wasnt  correct and I do think that being  clearly  told the undisclosed speeding offence 
wouldnt impact on the payment of his claim will have exacerbated the disappointment and 
distress Mr S was caused when  the correct position was explained to him. And that didnt 
happen for a further three weeks.  Taking that into account, along  with the acknowledged 
delays in handling his claim, I agree with our investigator that Advantage should  pay Mr S a 
total of £200 to recognise the impact on him of what went wrong. 
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Advantage Insurance Company Limited will 
need to put things right by paying Mr S £200.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Ref: DRN44789013James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4478901