K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax,  mis-sold her a packaged 
bank account,  called  the Ultimate Reward Current Account  (URCA).
Mrs C paid a monthly  fee for the account  and received  several potential  benefits in return. 
She thinks that Bank of Scotland should  refund  her all the fees she paid, plus interest.  
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs Cs complaint and didnt think  that Bank 
of Scotland had mis-sold  the URCA to her. 
Mrs C didnt agree with the adjudicators  findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do in Mrs Cs case.  Ive looked into 
everything that Mrs C and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint and 
Ive decided not to uphold  it. Ill explain why. 
I understand that Mrs C has been a customer of Bank of Scotland  for quite a long time. Bank 
of Scotland has looked into its records for her and has told us that: 
she first opened a fee-free account  in 1999
between 1999  and 2009, she changed the type of account several times, but didnt 
choose one with a fee 
during 2009,  she switched  to the URCA, for which she paid a fee
in 2015, she went back to a fee-fee account. 
I think that Bank of Scotlands records about  this are probably accurate and I have taken this 
account history to be correct. 
Mrs C has given us a pretty full description of how Bank of Scotland  came  to sell her the 
URCA. Shes told us that she went into one of its branches to draw some  cash and that 
while she was there one of its staff invited her to a meeting to review her bank account. 
Shes said that switched  to the URCA during this review as Bank of Scotland  strongly 
recommended  that she should change due to the great benefits the account could provide. 
She thinks that Bank of Scotland pressured her to buy the URCA . Shes also said that 
switched her home insurance to Bank of Scotland as a result of this meeting.
Mrs C has told us that she now believes that the URCA  was not beneficial to her. Shes 
mentioned that the home insurance rose in price and she now uses a different insurer. Shes 
also explained that in 2015,  during  a similar review meeting,  Bank of Scotland told her that 
she would not get value  from the URCA.  She switched back to a fee-free account after this 
review and now believes that Bank of Scotland advised her unfairly  in 2009. 
Ref: DRN42684602Bank of Scotland has agreed that it sold the URCA to Mrs C during a meeting in one of its 
branches and has not denied  that it approached her in the way she has described.  However,  
it has said that it sold her the account  on a non-advised basis  and didnt recommend it to 
her. Its told us that its usual practice  in 2009  was for its staff to tell customers about an 
URCAs potential benefits and costs, without advising them,  and then leave them to decide 
whether to buy it. 
There are no detailed  records  of Mrs Cs meeting with Bank  of Scotland  in 2009, which  I 
dont find surprising after so much time has passed,  so I cant  tell for sure what  Bank  of 
Scotland said or didnt say to Mrs C. However, throughout this case Mrs C has been very 
clear and consistent about  what  happened  and Im satisfied that in her particular  case  Bank 
of Scotland led her to believe it was recommending the URCA to her; so in fairness to her, I 
have considered her case as an advised  sale.  This meant that as well as telling Mrs C 
about the URCAs costs  and benefits,  Bank of Scotland had to check  that it was a 
reasonable a choice  for her. So Ive looked into the potential benefits of the URCA and Mrs 
Cs circumstance to see if it was reasonable for Bank of Scotland to recommend it to her. 
When Bank of Scotland sold the URCA  to Mrs C, amongst other things, its potential benefits  
included car breakdown cover, travel  insurance,  mobile phone insurance,  commission-free 
foreign currency and discounts on its home insurance policies. 
I understand that Mrs C drove a car and I gather that she used the car breakdown  service  a 
couple of times, so she may have found this benefit  potentially useful. Similarly, I gather that 
she made some enquiries about the travel  insurance  and may have had a potential need for 
this cover,  and may also have found  the commission-free  foreign currency  of interest. And 
as she switched to Bank  of Scotlands  home insurance policy,  I think  she probably found the 
discount attractive.  
So it seems  to me that it was reasonable for Bank  of Scotland  to recommend the URCA to 
Mrs C in 2009. 
Mrs C has questioned how it could  have been fair for Bank of Scotland to sell her the URCA 
in 2009 and then tell her in 2015 that she wouldnt get value from it. Shes  told us that her 
circumstances didnt  change much in the intervening  years. 
I understand  Mrs Cs concerns about Bank  of Scotlands apparent change  of heart. But over 
the years,  Bank of Scotland had changed  some of the benefits  of the URCA. (It was allowed 
to do this, provided  it told its customers what it was doing,  which I believe it probably did). 
For example, it had withdrawn the discount  on home insurance, changed  the provider of the 
car breakdown cover and changed  the monthly fee so that customers  would pay different 
amounts depending on how they used the account and how much  they paid in each month.  
Also, by 2015,  both Mrs C and Bank  of Scotland could look back  to see the extent  to which  
she had needed  or used  the accounts  potential  benefits, whereas in 2009  they could only 
anticipate possible future usage. So I dont think it was necessarily unfair  for Bank of 
Scotland to recommend the account to Mrs C in 2009  and subsequently  change its mind in 
2015.
Although Mrs C has said that Bank of Scotland pressured her to buy the URCA, I havent 
seen sufficient evidence  for me to agree. Mrs C had held a fee-free account for several 
years and I think its unlikely that Bank of Scotland denied her a choice to keep it. I accept 
Ref: DRN42684603that Bank  of Scotland may have highlighted the potential benefits  of the URCA, but this isnt 
the same  as applying unfair pressure. 
I also think its highly likely that Bank of Scotland told Mrs C how much the account would 
cost her; the monthly  fee would appear on her statements and on other  paperwork Bank of 
Scotland would  send  to her, so I doubt that it tried to hide the fees during the review  
meeting.
In correspondence,  Mrs C has also told us that when Bank of Scotland first investigated her 
complaint, it wrongly  claimed to have spoken to her on the phone and then mentioned this in 
some of its correspondence. I dont know exactly what  happened, but Mrs C doesnt  seem to 
have lost out financially over these possible shortcomings in customer  service,  and I 
understand that Bank of Scotland has already  paid her some compensation for any distress 
or inconvenience she may have suffered. I havent  considered this possible poor service as 
part of this decision. 
So in summary,  I accept that Bank  of Scotland  may not have got everything right for Mrs C, 
but I dont think  that it mis-sold the URCA to her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Cs complaint about Bank of 
Scotland plc. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4268460