K821x#15complaint
Ms F complains that NRAM Limited didnt treat her fairly by allowing her a payment holiday 
on her mortgage while  she received treatment for a serious illness.
background
Ms F has had a mortgage for some  years with NRAM. Its a buy to let mortgage  and the 
property has recently  been  rented out. Ms F also owns another property in a noted tourist 
area which she was using as her residence  the mortgage on that property  is with another 
lender.
In 2018, Ms F was diagnosed  with cancer and needed  a course of treatment. Shes self-
employed and expected  she wouldnt be able to work for several months. Her tenant had left 
the property. Ms F decided to move into the buy to let property and turn the other one she 
had previously been living in into a holiday let to generate some  income.
Ms F contacted NRAM to tell it about the situation. She asked for a payment holiday on the 
buy to let mortgage and told NRAM she intended to move into the property.
NRAM refused a payment holiday. Ms F says it told her that was because shed been late 
with a couple of payments  she accepted she had, but said that was because she pays  by 
standing order, which doesnt  get taken on bank  holidays  or weekends; the payment is then 
made the next working day. NRAM said that wasnt the only reason it refused; it was also 
concerned about  whether shed be able to afford  the increased payments after the payment 
holiday ended,  and it said it needed an income and expenditure form to allow it to see what  
she could afford to pay. It said it would consider a payment arrangement but not a payment 
holiday, depending on what the income and expenditure form said.
Ms F didnt complete the income and expenditure form and return  it to NRAM. Instead, she 
complained. When  our investigator  got involved,  she did complete one, but that showed that 
she couldnt afford her mortgage payments. But now shes  recovered and working again, 
and making money  from the holiday let, and has resumed her mortgage payments. But there 
are arrears  from the period when she was unable  to work.
Shes also formally requested to be allowed to live in the buy to let property  though in fact 
she already is  but NRAM  refused  that request because the mortgage was in arrears. It 
wanted the arrears  to be cleared, or at least an arrangement  to clear them within  a year to 
be put in place, first.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint. She said NRAM couldnt  
consider a payment holiday or arrangement without a completed income and expenditure 
form. And she noted that Ms F was now discussing her arrears with NRAM with a view to 
coming to an arrangement so that the consent  to live in the property could be given.
Ms F wasnt happy with that. She thought  NRAM should have allowed her to have a 
payment holiday.  Its refusal had made an already very difficult time even more stressful.  So 
the complaint  comes  to me for a final decision to be made.
Ms F also has a complaint about  the interest rate on her mortgage. Thats been dealt with 
separately, so I wont deal with that issue here.
Ref: DRN41129842I recently issued a provisional decision  setting out my thoughts  on this complaint. I said:
This isnt a residential  mortgage; its a buy to let one. The fact that Ms F is now living  
in the property doesnt change the nature of the mortgage itself.
A residential  mortgage  is a regulated mortgage agreement with specific requirements 
attached to it. A buy to let mortgage  is unregulated. Theyre different types  of 
products with different purposes   and assessed  by lenders in different ways.  Thats  
why its a condition  of Ms Fs mortgage  that she cant live in the property.
And as this mortgage  isnt regulated, that means that in managing it NRAM isnt 
subject to the regulators rules on residential mortgages, including  the rules on fair 
treatment of borrowers in financial  difficulties. It is, however, required to treat Ms F 
fairly in all the circumstances, and so Ill consider whether I think  its done  so.
When Ms F spoke to NRAM  about  her mortgage in May 2018, she asked  for a 
payment holiday.  NRAM wasnt willing to consider that, though  it was prepared  
subject to an assessment  of her income and expenditure  to consider a payment 
arrangement.
That might seem like an artificial distinction,  but to my mind  its an important one. A 
payment holiday  is something  that some (by no means all) mortgages have as a 
feature. Its built into the contract terms as part of the mortgage offer.  So a borrower 
taking advantage of a payment holiday is not in breach of their mortgage contract by 
making no payments.  Theyre exercising  a contractual right not to do so. Theyre  not 
in arrears, and so the lender should not report any arrears to the credit  reference 
agencies. However,  at the end of the payment  holiday  the missing payments will 
need to be made up.
A payment arrangement  is not a contractual right not to make payments. The 
borrower is still required to make their payments, and by not doing so goes into 
arrears. However, because the lender  is aware of the underlying circumstances, it 
agrees for the length of the arrangement that it will accept lower  (or no) payments 
and wont take further action, such as repossession. But because the borrower is still 
contractually required to make their payments, the mortgage goes into arrears and 
the lender reports  the arrears and arrangement to the credit reference  agencies.
Ms Fs mortgage offer includes the facility to take payment holidays. Its not an 
absolute right; she has to apply for it and NRAM has to agree. But if it does, for the 
duration of the holiday  she wont be required to make any payments and wont be in 
arrears.
The mortgage offer says:
Following 9 full consecutive monthly  payments  you may apply for a one-
month payment  holiday. This may be applied for once in every 1 year period 
following completion of your mortgage. If you choose not to take a payment 
holiday in any given  1 year period you may accumulate  the right to take up to 
a maximum of 3 payment  holidays in any 1 year period. In certain 
circumstances we will consider applications for payment holidays of up to 6 
months. For example to coincide with maternity / paternity leave.
Ref: DRN41129843All payment holidays are subject to Northern Rocks prior agreement. You 
should note that interest  will continue to be charged during a payment 
holiday.
So, subject to NRAMs agreement, Ms F is entitled  to a three month  payment  holiday 
if shes made 9 months consecutive monthly  payments  and not taken a holiday in 
the last three years. And in certain circumstances  that can be extended to six 
months.
Ive reviewed Ms Fs payment history, and it seems  to me that she had made at least 
nine months payments  by the time she applied. Some  of them  had been made late, 
but only a matter of days  and thats consistent with what Ms F says about the 
nature of making  payments  by standing order.
Of course,  it was Ms Fs choice to make  payments  by standing order,  and if shed 
paid by direct debit all her payments would have been on time. But I also note that 
the mortgage offer talks about payments being  made  not payments being  made  
exactly on time.
However, NRAM knew why she was taking a payment holiday. In my view,  it would 
have been fair for NRAM to have taken  into account  her circumstances and 
recognised that the payments had been  made broadly on time, rather  than taking a 
very rigid view of the criteria for entitlement. I think,  acting fairly knowing Ms Fs 
situation, NRAM shouldnt  have used the payment  history to have refused Ms Fs 
application for a payment holiday.
I do think its reasonable for NRAM to want to consider Ms Fs future income and 
expenditure, because the missed payments will need to be made up somehow. But 
theres fifteen years  left on the mortgage term, so she does have  plenty of time to do 
that. If the missed payments were  to be capitalised at the end of a payment holiday,  
the impact on the monthly payments going  forward would be small.
So I understand why NRAM asked Ms F for details of her income and expenditure. 
But I also understood why she complained rather than provide it. She thought  the 
payment history was a bar to a payment  holiday.  She was going through  a very 
difficult time. And the letter NRAM sent her, a standard letter,  was hardly  sympathetic 
to her particular situation.
Taking everything into account,  I think the fair thing for NRAM to have  done  here was 
to offer Ms F a payment holiday. She asked for three months.  But the mortgage offer 
allows up to six. I think Ms Fs circumstances were sufficiently  exceptional  that 
NRAM should have  considered whether the longer period was appropriate  and 
judging by whats happened since, I think its turned out that it would have been 
necessary. I recognise theres a degree  of hindsight in saying that now,  but I think 
NRAM could have  recognised at the time that three months might not be enough.
To put things right, NRAM should  put Ms F back in the position she would have been 
in had it granted her a six month payment holiday.  Ill set out at the end exactly how 
that should be done. I also think the refusal to consider it caused Ms F considerable 
distress at a very difficult time, and so I think it would  be fair to require it to pay her 
£500 compensation for that. Because Im directing the missed  payments to be 
Ref: DRN41129844capitalised, Ms F will need to understand that her mortgage payments will increase 
somewhat going  forward.
That leaves the issue of the consent to live in the property.  As I say, this is a buy to 
let mortgage.  Ms F isnt supposed  to live there, and is in breach of her mortgage as a 
result. But NRAM will consider applications to allow borrowers to live in the property 
for a short period. It refused  Ms Fs application  because of arrears.  Following the 
implementation of my decision, she wont be in arrears, so NRAM should reconsider 
the application.
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision. Ms F accepted  it. And NRAM also agreed 
with what Id said. It offered:
To backdate the payment holiday and re-work the mortgage  accordingly;
To capitalise  the six monthly  payments due for the period of the payment holiday;
To  refund any payments Ms F made during the six month payment holiday period;
To remove  reports of arrears from Ms Fs credit file for the six month payment holiday 
period;
To agree to give Ms F permission to live in the property for 12 months from the date 
we tell it Ms F has accepted my final decision;
To remove  arrears fees charged during the payment holiday period; and
To pay the compensation I had said I was minded to require.
It pointed out that Ms F had missed  the payment due in November 2018, after the payment 
holiday would have  ended. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted what I said in my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
change the outcome. Im grateful to NRAM for recognising that it could have done more to 
assist Ms F, and for offering to grant the permission to let rather  so she doesnt need to 
make a fresh application. I think this is a fair resolution to this complaint.
Ms F will need  to be aware  that if she accepts my final decision her monthly payments will 
go up somewhat because of the capitalisation  of the payments missed during the payment 
holiday. Shell need to adjust her standing  order   and she might want  to consider agreeing  
with NRAM to change  the due date from the end of the month, or switching to direct debit, to 
avoid future  problems with payments not reaching NRAM on time.  At the end of 12 months 
shell need to either  move  out of the property or apply to NRAM for an extension of the 
permission to live there.  And her account  will still be in arrears by one month  as she missed  
the payment due in November 2018  any refunded overpayments should only be paid to 
Ms F after this arrears  is cleared.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct NRAM 
Limited to:
Ref: DRN41129845Re-work Ms Fs mortgage account  so that it is as if she had had a six month payment 
holiday from 1 May 2018 to 31 October  2018;
Capitalise the resulting missed  payments  with effect from 1 November 2018;
To the extent that Ms F has made  any payments since 1 May 2018 that exceed the 
payments she would have been  required to make following  the payment holiday and 
capitalisation, refund those  overpayments adding simple annual interest of 8%* from 
the date of each  payment. The refund is first to be used to pay the arrears from the 
missed November 2018 payment, with any excess paid to Ms F  if the refund is not 
enough to clear the arrears, NRAM and Ms F will need to discuss  how the remainder 
of the arrears are to be cleared;
Remove any arrears reported to the credit reference  agencies for the duration of the 
payment holiday,  and amend the reports so that they are as if a payment  holiday had 
been granted;
Remove any arrears fees charged  during the payment  holiday,  together  with interest  
on them;
Grant Ms F 12 months  permission to reside  in the property, with effect  from the date 
we tell NRAM Ms F has accepted my final decision; and
Pay Ms F £500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
* If NRAM  considers it should deduct income  tax from the 8% interest element of my award it 
may do so, but should give Ms F the necessary certificate, if she asks for it, so that she can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC if shes entitled to do so.
Ref: DRN4112984