K821x#15complaint
Mrs V complains that Close Asset Management  (UK) Limited charged her for an advice 
service that she didnt want or need.
background
In 2000 Mrs V invested £25,000 in a discretionary  managed investment through Close. She 
paid fees for the service provided which included an advice fee. Close wrote to Mrs V in 
2018 to say that as it hadnt  been  able to arrange a review meeting with her over the past 
few years it would  assume  she no longer wanted  the advisory service unless she contacted  
it. She responded  to Close to confirm she didnt  want the service. She then complained  to 
Close because she said she had never wanted  ongoing advice.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint a copy of which  is attached to and forms 
part of this final decision. I thought the complaint should be upheld  and in short made  the 
following findings:
I think it is more  likely than not that Mrs V was provided with a copy  of the fee 
schedule when  she first invested in 2000  but what happened in 2000  isnt central to 
the complaint.
Close has explained that up until the Retail Distribution Review (RDR) the advice fee 
wasnt optional so she had to pay this fee whether she chose to use the advice 
service or not.
Mrs Vs complaint is about having  to pay an advice fee from January  2013 after the 
changes made by the RDR had been  implemented.
The information given  to Mrs V by Close  at the time indicated there was no change to 
the advice fee as a result of RDR but the fact it wasnt optional  before and was after 
was  a significant change
In its thematic review of July 2013  (TR13/5)  about how firms were implementing  the 
RDR the FCA indicated that for clients to make an informed choice as to whether 
they wanted to take up or cancel  a firms service it should be made clear the service 
is optional. I had seen  no evidence  Close had made this clear.
Close should repay the charges  for the advice service from January  2013 together  
with any return that wouldve  been  made if no deduction had been  made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs V said she though I agreed  with her about  the misleading RDR information but made  no 
further comments. Close said it had no additional  points  to make and said it was going to 
calculate the redress by calculating the number of units deducted to pay the advice fee and 
credit these units to Mrs Vs portfolio. As this is the way the charges were  paid for I think  this 
is a reasonable  way for it to repay the charges.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  explained  above and in my provisional 
decision. Close Asset Management (UK) Limited  has to calculate and pay redress as I have 
set out.
Ref: DRN49960202Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN49960203COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs V complains that Close Asset Management (UK) Limited charged her for an advice service that 
she didnt want or need.
background
In 2000 Mrs V invested £25,000 in a discretionary managed investment through Close. She paid fees 
for the service  provided which included  an advice fee. Close wrote to Mrs V in 2018 to say that as it 
hadnt been able to arrange  a review meeting with her over the past few years it would assume she 
no longer wanted the advisory service unless  she contacted it. She responded  to Close to confirm  she 
didnt want the service.  She then complained  to Close  because she said she had never  wanted 
ongoing advice.
Close didnt uphold her complaint. It said that before the requirements set by the Retail Distribution 
Review (RDR)  from January  2013 Mrs V wouldnt have  had the option of opting out of the ongoing 
advice service. And that in April 2013, 2016 and 2017 Mrs V spoke to Close to say she didnt want  a 
review and was sent a follow  up letter  which  made her aware of the ongoing service and advice 
charge. And that similar  letters  were  sent in following years  after she declined review  meetings.
One of our investigators considered the complaint  but also didnt  think it should  be upheld. He said he 
thought the fee structure before the RDR wouldve been explained to Mrs V and as a financial adviser 
herself at the time she wouldve understood the fees payable.
The investigator said that Close  contacted customers in 2012  about  the RDR  and explained the fees 
and charges that would be payable going  forward, and that it also sent a brochure in November  2012 
which provided information  about  the RDR. He thought Close had done enough to make Mrs V aware 
of the changes  and charges as a result  of the RDR.
The investigator said Mrs V had opted out of review meetings which wouldve  given her the 
opportunity of discussing the service including  the option of opting-out of the advice service.  He said 
Mrs V hadnt told Close she didnt want the option  of having a review meeting  going  forwards.
Mrs V didnt agree  with the investigator. In short she made the following points:
She wasnt given the fee schedule at the initial  meeting and has had nothing  in writing about  
Closes pre-RDR  charges.
From the start of 2013 through to 2018 no one said anything about  discussing the fee 
structure despite her declining reviews and never having advice.
She thinks they had a duty to mention  fees to her during those  five and a half years because  
her situation never  changed.
The first opportunity she had to stop paying fees was August 2018  and she took it.
She doesnt remember in detail what was discussed in 2000 when she first invested but Close 
doesnt have information either and the investigator is speculating on what she wouldve  
been told.
In any event she is complaining about Close  not telling her about the changes  resulting from 
the RDR which applied from 1 January  2013.
The letter  the investigator said Close  sent about RDR  in December 2012 provided no detail 
about changes to its fee structure and that she could  opt out of the advice charge.
The letter  actually  states there is no need to take any action as there is no change to the 
service or level of charges.
Why couldnt Close  have  concluded that ongoing  advice  wasnt necessary given she had 
always told Close she didnt want  a review?
Why did it take them  five and a half years to specifically tell her she could stop the advice 
service?
Ref: DRN49960204As Mrs V didnt agree  with the investigator the matter has been  referred to me for review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
There is limited documentary evidence about what information Mrs V was given  about fees and 
charges when  she first invested in 2000. This is unsurprising given how long it is since she first used 
Close. Mrs V has said she wasnt  provided  with a fee schedule at the time but has also  
unsurprisingly given the time since the investment  - said she doesnt  remember in detail what  was 
discussed.
I accept Mrs V doesnt have a copy of the fee schedule  now but given she doesnt have a clear  
recollection of what was discussed Im not persuaded she wasnt provided with this at the time. I think  
it is unlikely she wouldnt have asked for details of fees and charges given  she says she didnt need 
financial advice as she was employed  in financial services herself at the time.  
The RDR  letter sent to customers  by Close  in 2012  also stated that the advice fee was fully disclosed  
and if Mrs V was unaware  of the fee I wouldve  expected her to raise this at the time.
But I dont think what happened in 2000 is central to this complaint anyway.  Close has explained that 
up until the RDR Mrs V wouldnt have  had the option of not having  the advice service, and so paying  
the fee for this. So whether she wanted advice  or not she wouldve had to pay for this as long as she 
was using  Close, up until the changes made by the RDR.
As Mrs V herself has pointed out what this complaint is about her having paid an advice fee after 
January 2013 when the changes made by the RDR  had to be implemented. Mrs V has said she was 
never made aware she could opt out of paying the advice fee until Close wrote to her in 2018 saying it 
would no longer  provide the service unless  she contacted it.
I have considered what information was provided to Mrs V about  the RDR and the effect this had on 
the service she was getting. The letter  Close  sent to customers about  the RDR at the end of 2012 
stated that:
Our fees and charges are transparent between those which relate to advice and those which relate to 
investment management or other product  costs.  Our advice fee (together with relevant  platform  and 
product charges where applicable) was fully disclosed to you and remains  unchanged. We believe the 
overall level of our charges  given the strength  of our proposition represents excellent value.
Close also produced a brochure entitled Wealth Matters dated November 2012 which included 
information on various matters including  the RDR.  The brochure  refers to Close working with 
customers so that they are clear on how much advice will cost and agree on how this will be paid.
I agree with Mrs V that the letter didnt  indicate any change to the charge for the advice fee - and 
neither did the brochure.  The letter states  the fee was already disclosed and was unchanged. 
Although I accept the fee itself didnt  change Close  has stated  that the option to opt out of the advice 
service was as a result of the RDR and wasnt an option before this. It seems to me this is a quite a 
significant change that related to the fee.
I acknowledge Mrs V was contacted about review meetings in 2013 and subsequent  years and that 
when she declined the meetings she was sent a letter  setting out what was included  in the advice 
service. But this is the same service she had been receiving since 2000 and for which she had 
declined review meetings  before the RDR. 
Ref: DRN49960205Given Close hadnt suggested there was any change resulting from the RDR  I dont think it is 
surprising that Mrs V continued to say she didnt want a review meeting. The fact the letters set out 
what the advice service  included didnt  provide Mrs V with any information about the service  now 
being optional. As Mrs V has said she didnt  want advice I can see no reason  she wouldve agreed to 
a review meeting.
Mrs V contacted Close and confirmed she didnt want the advice service when  it wrote to her in 2018 
indicating it was going to stop providing the service  because she hadnt been to a review meeting in 
the past few years. 
I think  it is more  likely  than not she wouldve  told Close she didnt want  the advice service sooner if 
she had been made aware she had the option  not to continue the service before 2018.  So I think the 
question is whether Close  shouldve told her that she had the option  of not continuing the service 
before it wrote to her in 2018  about stopping the service. 
The advice service was non-optional before  the RDR and optional afterwards according to Close. It 
seems to me this is quite a significant change with regard to the service provided  and the fees 
payable. It is surprising  that there is no reference to this change  in the information  provided to Mrs V 
in 2012 about the RDR. I think Closes letter of 2012 about the RDR actually  gave the impression that 
nothing had changed because it had been transparent about its charges at the outset. 
I note that in its thematic review of how firms were  implementing RDR in July 2013 (TR13/5) the 
regulator stated:
A client should be able to make an informed decision about  whether they wish to take up or cancel a 
firms ongoing service.  This means the firms explanation  of the service, the fact that its service  is 
optional and that the service can be cancelled should all be clear.
In an example of a firm not clearly explaining  a clients ability to cancel the ongoing service  the 
regulator stated:
Some firms only explained  a clients right to stop the ongoing  services (and therefore the charges) 
with a general  reference to terminating the agreement. We felt that the phrase would not make it 
clear enough to a client that they were able to stop the ongoing charge  or explain how they could do 
this.
I have seen no evidence that Mrs V was made aware that the advice service  had become optional 
and I think this is something Close shouldve made her aware of.
In the circumstances I think Close should repay the adviser charges it has deducted from Mrs Vs 
investment since January  2013 together with the return each payment  wouldve made  if it had 
remained within her investment from the date each  deduction was made  to the date of settlement.
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  explained and Close Asset Management  (UK) Limited 
has to calculate redress as set out above and pay this to Mrs V.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4996020