K820x#14complaint
Miss H says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about seven instalment loans Sunny  provided  to Miss H between 
May 2015 and August 2015.  Miss H borrowed amounts ranging between £50 and £350, to 
be repaid in six monthly instalments. Several  of her loans overlapped and so Miss H at times 
had to make  several  repayments each month. Miss H repaid all her loans  early.  Miss Hs 
borrowing history was as follows:
Loan 1 for £300 taken on 4 May 2015  and repaid  6 July 2015
Loan 2 for £50 taken on 4 May 2015 and repaid on 6 July 2015
Loan 3 for £50 taken on 29 May 2015 and repaid on 6 July 2015
Loan 4 for £350 taken on 8 July 2015  and repaid on 28 August  2015
Loan 5 for £150 taken on 24 July 2015  and repaid on 11 November 2015
Loan 6 for £50 taken on 27 July 2015 and repaid on 28 October 2015
Loan 7 for £150 taken on 29 August 2015  and repaid on 11 November 2015
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Hs complaint in part and thought loans  six and seven shouldnt  
have been given. Sunny disagreed and the complaint  was passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss H 
and to Sunny on 21 November  2019.  I summarise my findings:
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about short-term  lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.  
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss H could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN42606602the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss H could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
I carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint.
Sunny asked Miss H for information about  her income and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. Miss H said her monthly  income was £1,014 for loans one and two and 
£1,300 for loans  three to seven. She said her outgoings were between  £300 and £750 a 
month. I couldnt see that Sunnys credit  checks found anything  untoward that should have 
prompted further checks. 
For loans one to four, given the loan amounts,  what was apparent about Miss Hs 
circumstances at the time and her history  with Sunny, I didnt think  it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Miss H provided or the information 
Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what Miss H was saying. From  the information Miss H provided, these loans looked 
affordable. So I couldnt  say that Sunny was wrong  to provide loans one to four.
For loan five, I thought  Sunny should have made  better  checks that the loan was affordable  
for Miss H. This was Miss Hs fifth loan in two and a half months. She had one loan 
outstanding. But Miss H hasnt provided  us with information about her finances at the time, 
such as her bank statements or credit  file. So I couldnt say what better  checks  would have 
found. And so I couldnt say that Sunny was wrong to have provided loan five. 
For the same reasons  Ive given above,  I thought  Sunny  should  have made better 
affordability checks for loans six and seven. But again I didnt have enough information to 
safely say what better  checks would have found.  So I couldnt say that Sunny was wrong to 
provide loans six and seven.
Ref: DRN42606603I also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending  history with Miss H, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
The adjudicator thought  that this point was reached  by loan six. This was because  she 
thought the pattern of Miss Hs borrowing then showed that she was persistently  reliant  on 
short-term loans. Miss H had taken six loans  in three months for amounts roughly about the 
same. So the adjudicator thought this showed  that the loans here were unsustainable and 
Sunny shouldnt have provided  loans six and seven.
But, given the particular circumstances of Miss Hs case, I disagreed  and I didnt think  there  
was evidence that a pattern of persistent lending was established. I said this because:
Miss H borrowed  again within a short time of repaying previous loans just three  times.  
She borrowed and repaid loans  one, two and three and then took out loan four. She 
repaid loans four and six and then took out loan seven. 
The loans were  all taken out in under a four month period.
The amount  of capital outstanding didnt increase for loans six and seven. 
And so I didnt think that Sunny should  have seen that further lending was unsustainable. 
Subject to any further representations from Miss H or Sunny, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to not uphold this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sunny replied that it had nothing further  to add. Miss H didnt respond to my provisional 
decision. So I have  no further representations to consider. And I therefore have no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4260660