K822xcomplaint
Mr P has complained about a hire agreement he took out with Ezeecopy Limited to fund the 
cost of a photocopier for a shop that he owns.  Mr P says Ezeecopy didnt tell him there was 
a minimum duration of the agreement.  He also says he took out the agreement  to make a 
profit and that he wasnt informed how the monthly payments would be calculated. 
Ezeecopy has been represented throughout but, to make things simpler, Ill only refer to 
Ezeecopy.
background 
Mr P tells us he received  a promotional leaflet from Ezeecopy congratulating him saying  
customers in the area had asked it to supply a photocopier  for them  to use. It said his shop 
had been selected to be one of the first in the area.  Mr P says the leaflet also lead him to 
believe hed receive 50% commission on any photocopies sold if he had the photocopier 
installed in his shop.  He tells us he contacted Ezeecopy  about  the offer because he thought  
it would  help him improve the footfall in his shop and increase his profits.  
Mr P says Ezeecopy told him on the phone call he would  indeed receive 50% commission of 
any sales he made, and that there wouldnt be a minimum term hed have to sign up to. He 
says Ezeecopy  explained it would contact him once a month to obtain a reading on how 
many photocopies had been  sold which would be used to determine  how much hed need  to 
pay. 
Ezeecopy, however, says it discussed the terms of the agreement with Mr P and informed 
him about its minimum duration  and how the payments would be calculated.  
Ezeecopy sent Mr P a copy of the hire agreement  to review. The agreement set out it was 
for a photocopier, along with a display unit and promotional material.  It said Mr P would 
receive commission upon sales of photocopies based on monthly averages.  And subject to 
provisions concerning estimated meter readings, the monthly payments would be the 
balance of gross monthly sales  less commission. 
Mr P signed  and returned the agreement and had the photocopier installed in his shop. 
A couple of months later, after having unexpected payments taken, Mr P contacted  
Ezeecopy to complain. He said he wanted  to come out of the agreement  because  Ezeecopy  
didnt properly inform  him about the minimum term or how the monthly  payments  were 
calculated.
Ezeecopy gave  Mr P two options to resolve the complaint:
1.Change the agreement to a Charge Any Price Agreement and he would pay £45 plus 
VAT per month for the remaining term.
2.Pay £2,131  to end the agreement.  
Mr P wasnt  happy with either option so brought the complaint to us to consider.  
Ref: DRN45058962Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said he didnt think  
Ezeecopy had misled  Mr P because he had time to consider the hire agreement in full before 
agreeing to the terms and signing it. Our investigator said the agreement  clearly set out that 
there was a 60 month minimum  duration. He also said the agreement  explained  how the 
monthly payments  were calculated. Considering everything, he couldnt see that Ezeecopy  
had misled Mr P, so he didnt make  any recommendations.  
Mr P didnt agree. He said other  customers had made  complaints  to Ezeecopy and that a 
judge had ruled that Ezeecopy had misrepresented the contract in a court  case. Mr P sent 
us details about the court case, along with third party reviews of Ezeecopy. 
Our investigator considered the new evidence,  but it didnt change  his mind. He said the fact 
that other  customers had complained about  a similar matter didnt necessarily mean 
Ezeecopy had done something wrong  in Mr Ps case. He also noted  the court case was 
dismissed but there was no explanation why. 
Mr P didnt accept the investigators second assessment. He reiterated  that two judges ruled 
the contract  had been misrepresented. He explained  there would be articles  published about 
the issue. He also said he had to chase up Ezeecopy  to get invoices for the monthly 
payments when it should have provided  them automatically.  
As things  couldnt  be resolved, the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision.  
Since the complaint has been  referred to me, Ezeecopy has requested  that we dismiss it. In 
summary, it says:
Mr P fabricated false reviews against  Ezeecopy and hes relying on those in his 
complaint. 
Mr P is incorrectly arguing that the complaint falls within the circumstances of a 
previous court case. 
Mr P has been harassing other customers of Ezeecopy and is seeking to persuade 
them to join a campaign against  it. 
Mr P has reclaimed  all his payments (totalling around £250) through  the direct  debit 
indemnity scheme. 
It has provided Mr P with 7,500 sheets of paper and he tried to order  more, 
suggesting hed sold a significant amount of copies. 
Mr P has commenced court proceedings against  Ezeecopy.  
I issued a provisional decision setting out why I thought the complaint should be upheld and 
not dismissed:
Ive firstly  considered whether this is a complaint that should  be dismissed. Under the rules  
that apply, if I felt it was appropriate to do so, I have  the discretion to dismiss a complaint 
without consideration of its merits. Choosing to dismiss a complaint is different to saying that 
a complaint falls outside of our jurisdiction  to consider. The rules concerning dismissal can 
be found in the Financial  Conduct Authoritys handbook under the dispute resolution (DISP) 
section. DISP 3.3.4A R sets out five circumstances  where I may decide to dismiss a 
complaint without considering its merits. So Ive considered whether:
Ref: DRN45058963(1)the complaint is frivolous  or vexatious;  or
(2)the subject  matter of the complaint has been  dealt  with, or is being dealt with, by a 
comparable ADR entity; or
(3)the subject  matter of the complaint has been  the subject of court  proceedings where 
there has been a decision on the merits; or
(4)the subject  matter of the complaint is the subject of current court proceedings, unless 
proceedings are stayed or sisted (by agreement of all parties, or order of the court)  so 
that the matter  may be considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service; or
(5)dealing with such a type of complaint  would otherwise seriously  impair the effective 
operation of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service .
I dont think the first three  circumstances apply to this complaint. And I dont think the fourth 
circumstance applies because the subject matter of the complaint  isnt yet the subject of 
court proceedings. Ive thought about the fifth circumstance. Ezeecopy says Mr P is posting  
fake reviews and is seeking to persuade other  customers to join a campaign against it. It 
says Mr P is incorrectly  comparing his case to another case  against it and that he isnt being 
completely transparent with our service. But our service was set up to deal with complaints 
about financial services   like when a consumer is unhappy with something  relating to a hire 
agreement. 
DISP 3.3.4B  G gives some examples  of the types of complaint that might  fall under the fifth 
circumstance. Mr Ps situation doesnt clearly fall into one of these (or similar)  circumstances 
either. Taking all this into account,  I dont consider that dealing  with Mr Ps complaint would 
seriously impair the effective operation of our service, so I dont propose  to dismiss it.
relevant considerations 
Since 1 April 2014, the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA) has regulated Ezeecopy.  The 
FCA handbook  contains the complete record  of FCA legal instruments and is the source  of 
the rules and guidance that FCA authorised firms are required to follow.  This includes the 
Principles for Businesses (PRIN). Of particular relevance to this complaint are:
Principle 6
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them  fairly.
Principle 7
A firm must pay due regard to the informati on needs of its clients, and communic ate 
information  to them  in a way which is clear,  fair and not misleading.
Firms must also follow the rules  and guidance  set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC), which can also be found in the FCA handbook. 
The crux of the complaint is whether Ezeecopy properly informed Mr P about the terms of 
the agreement  prior to him entering into it. Ezeecopy hasnt been able to provide  us with a 
recording of the initial sales call that took place.  So I dont know  exactly  what was said. But 
Ive considered what both parties have said was discussed. Ive also considered the 
documentation provided. 
Ref: DRN45058964rental period
Mr P says Ezeecopy told him there wouldnt be a minimum rental period on the initial sales  
call. Ezeecopys notes say the minimum rental  period  was made  clear  to him. Both accounts 
are quite plausible so Ive thought about  the other evidence thats available.  
Mr P said that when he received the agreement  from Ezeecopy  he contacted  it again  to 
clarify a few things about how the payments were  calculated. He says he signed  the 
agreement thinking  it was a direct debit instruction. Looking at the agreement, I dont think it 
looks like a typical direct  debit instruction. And I have to bear in mind that the minimum rental  
period is reasonably prominent. With that in mind, even if Mr P didnt go through  the 
agreement in detail,  I think the minimum term was brought  to his attention. 
monthly payments
Mr P tells us he signed the hire agreement thinking there wasnt a minimum monthly  
payment  and that hed receive  50% commission on any photocopies sold.  He says he 
spoke to Ezeecopy after receiving a copy of the agreement to confirm this. When  Ezeecopy 
started to take payments,  he contacted it because they werent in line with what he thought 
hed been told. Mr P says Ezeecopy told him it took the payments because it was unable to 
get estimated  meter  readings. He says it reassured  him the payments would correct  
themselves the following month. I find Mr Ps account of what was said plausible  and his 
actions are consistent with someone who felt they would  only be required to pay commission  
payments on photocopies  that were sold.
Its possible there was a misunderstanding on the telephone calls.  So Ive also thought about 
what was set out in the agreement, bearing in mind  Mr P was given the opportunity to review  
it before  entering  into it. Under the hire payments part of the agreement, it sets out the 
customer would receive commission  of 50% for any photocopies that were  made.  This is 
consistent with the leaflet  that Ezeecopy sent Mr P. 
The agreement says the photocopier has a meter that records  the amount of photocopies to 
work out the monthly payments. The section also sets out that the customer  would charge 
between 3p and 15p per black and white copy,  and between 20p and 49p per colour copy.  
This is in line with what Mr P says he was told. 
Where Ezeecopy  isnt able to obtain  a meter reading, the agreement  sets out that it could  
use an estimated meter reading  based on an average of the previous six readings.  In this 
section of the agreement, it sets out further  provisions. One of those at the bottom  of the first 
page of the agreement says:
During the Period  of this Agreement the minimum  monthly Hire Payments payable by the 
Customer to the Company will not be less than the rate equivalent to the Estimated Meter 
Reading for the numbers  of black and white and colour photocopies (as applicable). By way 
of concession, the Company may not apply the Estimated Meter reading  for the Customers 
[sic] first three (3) monthly invoices.
Ref: DRN45058965There is information in the terms and conditions  about what the Estimated Meter Reading  
means. It says:
THE ESTIMATED METER READING means: a Meter  reading of the following matrix of 
black and white photocopies per day (i) Shop charging three pence (3p) one hundred and 
forty four (144) copies  per day; (ii) Shop charging four pence (4p) one hundred and eight 
(108) copies per day; (iii) Shop  charging  five pence (5p) eighty seven (87) copies  per day; 
(iv) Shop charging six pence (6p) seventy two (72) copies per day; (v) Shop charging seven 
pence (7p) sixty two (62) copies per day; (vi) Shop charging eight pence (8p) fifty four (54) 
copies per day; (vii) Shop  charging nine pence (9p) forty eight (48) copies per day; (viii) 
Shop charging ten pence (10p) to fifteen pence  (15p) forty three (43) copies per day; and/or 
a Meter reading of the following matrix of colour photocopies per day (subject to retail  price) 
(i) Shop charging twenty (20p) six (6) colour copies per day; (ii) Shop charging thirty nine 
(39p) three (3) colour copies per day; (iii) Shop charging forty nine (49p) two point five (2.5) 
colour copies per day
I think the terms regarding  the payment are not set out as clearly and concisely as they 
should be. The payments  required  are not typical  of what would normally be expected under 
a credit or hire agreement. Its confusing  the agreement switches  between setting defined  
estimated meter readings, and estimated readings that are made up by averaging six 
previous meter readings. The agreement doesnt clearly set out what  Mr P would have  had 
to sell to make a profit  or to cover the minimum hire cost. As there  is some  ambiguity in the 
contract, I think it should be read in Mr Ps favour. 
In Mr Ps case, the minimum  hire charge was based  on him selling 43 black  and white  
copies per day and 6 colour  copies. He says he only entered into the agreement to make a 
profit and to get more customers in his shop. Had Ezeecopy properly informed him about the 
agreement, I dont believe he would have entered into it because he would have realised  the 
amount of photocopies hed have to sell to make a profit was very unrealistic. Mr P recently 
sent us a printer status report that shows the machine had printed 681 pages. Considering 
this was taken  over 15 months after the printer was installed, it supports Mr Ps argument  
that his shop didnt have  the footfall to sell enough  copies  to make a profit.  He only sold 
between one and two copies per day on average  significantly less than what  he needed to 
sell to make  a profit. 
Ref: DRN45058966Therefore, Im not persuaded that Mr P was provided with an adequate explanation about 
the terms of the agreement. From listening to what he recalls about the conversations  that 
took place, and from reviewing the agreement I dont think, on balance, Ezeecopy 
adequately informed Mr P how much  hed have to pay periodically  and, where the amount 
can be determined, in total under the agreement. 
In addition, the promotional material Ezeecopy sent Mr P indicated  that customers  would 
receive 50% commission. Considering this, along with the reasons as set out above, I think it 
more likely than not that Ezeecopy misled  him into thinking he would receive 50% 
commission from any sales he made.  So I dont  think the features  of the hire agreement 
were properly explained and I dont think Mr P was able to make an informed  choice before 
signing it. 
In summary,  I dont think Ezeecopys literature or hire agreement were clear  fair or not 
misleading. So I find that it has therefore failed  to meet the FCA requirement.
Had Mr P been correctly informed I think he would have realised the actual costs  of the hire 
agreement and therefore the minimum number  of copies he was required to sell each month  
to make a profit. Once hed realised the significant number he would  need  to sell to make a 
profit I think its unlikely he would have decided  to go ahead with the hire agreement. 
photocopy sales and paper order
Ezeecopy has concerns Mr P sold more  copies than what hes confirmed  and it told us he 
tried to order more paper.  But in addition to the printer status  report, Mr P has also sent us a 
photo of unopened reams  of paper. So, on balance,  I dont believe hes misled us about  how 
many copies have been  sold. 
findings and compensation
Taking everything into account,  I think it would be fair to put Mr P back in position he would 
have been in had he not entered into the agreement. So I think Ezeecopy should  cancel the 
agreement and pick up the goods from Mr P, at no cost to him. It should also remove  
records of the agreement from his credit  file. I understand that Mr P has already claimed 
back the money he paid to Ezeecopy, which totals  around £250. So he is not out of pocket. I 
dont think Ezeecopy  should try to recover this money from Mr P.
I think the matter has also caused Mr P some distress and inconvenience.  He had 
unexpected payments taken from his account,  and hes had to enter into a lengthy dialogue 
with Ezeecopy.  However, I have to bear in mind  that Mr P has benefitted financially from 
selling photocopies. His meter reading  says the photocopier printed 681 copies. I dont  know  
whether the copies sold were colour  or black and white so Im unable to calculate  the sales  
exactly. But it means that Mr P would have received somewhere  between  (roughly) £65 and 
£135 in sales.  In the circumstances, I dont think it fair that Ezeecopy  should be able to 
recover 50% of the sales Mr P made.  Overall,  I think Mr P keeping all of the money  from any 
sales made is a fair way to compensate him for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.
Mr P responded to the provisional decision and said, in summary, that he was happy with 
the decision, but wanted to add that Ezeecopy had not dealt with the agreement in the right 
way. He said that Ezeecopys signature  on the hire agreement had been  backdated,  which 
he thinks is a criminal offence. 
Ref: DRN45058967Ezeecopy responded to say it disagreed  with the findings but it was prepared  to comply with 
the redress proposed  in the provisional decision.  It said that if a final decision was required, 
it wanted me to consider further  points, which Ive summarised below:
Mr Ps original  complaint was only in respect  of the minimum term. 
It asked me to explain why the complaint was not considered  frivolous or vexatious.  
It asked me to set out why the payment terms were not considered  typical of what 
would normally be expected under a credit or hire agreement. 
It asked me to set out on what basis I believed that the hire agreement  should set out 
what Mr P would have to sell to make a profit. It says that Mr P is a businessperson  
and that it was his responsibility to ensure the agreement was suitable. 
It asked me to set out on what basis I found  that it was very unrealistic  that Mr P 
would make a profit  under  the agreement. 
It said that I should have considered the credibility and consistency  of what  Mr P told 
us. 
It said that it should be given the opportunity to collect the equipment  before  any 
decision is reached. 
It highlighted the promotional material expressly  stated that the 50% commission 
would be subject  to terms and conditions. 
It said the provisional decision didnt refer to the Key Points of Agreement (KPA) 
document that was provided to Mr P. 
It asked me to set out why I found that it had misled Mr P. 
It refers to court judgments finding the agreement is clear and enforceable. 
It reiterated that there has been  no ruling  of misrepresentation against it. 
It said an FCA associate  had said the agreement was clear.
It said that Ive incorrectly reached  a decision  that the agreement  is not compliant. 
It does not agree  that there is any ambiguity within the agreement. 
It points out that payments cannot  be fixed under this sort of agreement.  
It said Mr P didnt  want  to exit the agreement until October 2017.  
It said that Mr P has claimed  back all the money  he paid towards  the agreement  so 
there would  be nothing to return.  
It said that High Court proceedings were imminent.   
We shared Ezeecopys  response with Mr P, and he responded to say that he was never sent 
a copy of the KPA document. He said Ezeecopy also sent him promotional material without 
the subject to terms and conditions  part included.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thought about  the complaint Mr P brought to our service. I should explain that we have 
whats called  an inquisitorial remit. Complainants  dont always know exactly whats gone 
wrong or how best to express everything  theyre unhappy about. In some cases, we need to 
look beyond the complaint  as the complainant originally worded it. It wouldnt be fair to limit 
the complaint  because  the complainant doesnt understand the technicalities. And after 
further discussions with Mr P, he told us he wasnt happy with the terms relating to payment 
of the agreement. So in this case, I think  it was clear that he was unhappy  with elements of 
the sale of the agreement. And Im satisfied that Im able to consider Mr Ps complaint about 
the term and the payment calculations. 
Ref: DRN45058968Im aware that Ezeecopy has suggested the complaint is frivolous or vexatious and so it 
should be dismissed without consideration of its merits. But I dont agree. Mr P thinks  
Ezeecopy mis-sold him a regulated hire agreement and has brought the complaint to our 
service. Our service  was set up to consider these types of complaints. Just because 
Ezeecopy doesnt think the complaint has merit, this doesnt make  it a complaint I would 
choose to dismiss because it is frivolous  or vexatious. 
Ezeecopy has asked  me to set out why I didnt think  the payment terms were not typical  of 
what would  normally be expected under a hire agreement and on what basis I believed it 
should set out what  Mr P would have to sell to make  a profit. Typically, Id expect a hire 
agreement to clearly include details of the payment required,  the frequency  and terms of the 
payment, and details  of the duration of the agreement. In this case,  due to the nature of the 
service being supplied, the costs  cant reasonably be calculated in advance,  because  the 
monthly payment  will be determined by the amount of photocopies that were sold. Ive set 
out the reasons why I dont think the agreement is particularly clear  in my provisional 
decision. But I should point out the agreement is simply part of the wider  circumstances of 
the complaint  that have led me to my conclusions.  Its one thing  amongst  several  that Ive 
considered.   
Ezeecopy has also pointed out that Mr P is a businessperson and so it was his responsibility 
to ensure the agreement was suitable. I acknowledge that Mr P runs a business.  And Ive 
had regard to the fact that Mr P, as a business owner,  is likely  to know  more about contracts 
than the typical  consumer. But Mr P runs a small shop. He doesnt  run a large sophisticated 
business with a great deal of experience in hiring  photocopiers. And, on balance, Im of the 
view that, considering the agreement and the broader circumstances  around  the sale, Mr P 
wasnt correctly informed   despite  him being a businessperson.
As I said in my provisional findings,  in Mr Ps case and on balance,  I think he was misled  into 
thinking hed receive 50% commission on the photocopies he sold.  I dont  think  the 
agreement made it easy enough  for him to work  out this wasnt the case,  and that hed have 
to sell a certain amount  of photocopies before  hed make a profit.  While  he wouldnt have 
been able to accurately predict  how many  photocopies hed be able to sell, his actual figures  
show he sold a tiny percentage  of the photocopies that would have been required before 
making a profit. I accept that Mr P requested to exit the agreement in October 2017, but 
even had the sales figures  been taken at that point  he still would have been significantly 
short of the sales  required. And while I accept this figure may have been affected by the way 
he promoted the service,  Im still of the view that, given  all the circumstances of the 
complaint, had Mr P been correctly informed, he would have realised  the amount of sales 
required to make a profit  would have been  very difficult to achieve. 
Ezeecopy has pointed to the promotional material that said the commission  would be subject 
to terms and conditions.  Mr P has said he was also sent promotional material without  this 
included. Theres conflicting evidence here.  But regardless of what version of the 
promotional material Mr P was sent, I still think the material would have  contributed to 
solidifying Mr Ps belief  that he would receive  50% commission on all the sales  he made.     
Ref: DRN45058969Ezeecopy has said that in addition to sending out the agreement  to Mr P, it also sent him a 
KPA document. The KPA document explains a bit more about how the hire agreement 
works, its term,  and how the payments are calculated. Mr P says he didnt receive  this 
document. Its curious that this document wasnt included  in Ezeecopys original 
submissions. And Im never  going  to know whether it was included or not. But, on the 
balance of probabilities, the fact it wasnt included in Ezeecopys original submissions and 
the fact that it wasnt specifically mentioned  on its welcome letters, Im minded  to agree that 
it probably wasnt included in the initial correspondence sent to Mr P. 
For the reasons  given,  I think its more likely than not Mr P was misled into thinking  hed earn 
50% commission on the copies that he sold and that he wasnt  at risk of owing money at the 
end of the month. Im satisfied the only reason Mr P entered into the agreement  was to help 
increase footfall in his shop and to make  a profit. Had he been better informed, I dont think  
he would  have agreed to enter into the agreement. Ive already explained why I thought the 
terms on the agreement  relating  to the estimated meter readings  were not clear. I accept 
that payments  arent fixed under these sorts of agreements, but I also think that details of 
what Mr P would need to sell per month before werent clear enough.
I said in the background that Mr P wanted  to cancel the agreement  a couple of months  after 
having the photocopier installed (in May 2017). Ezeecopy has pointed  out Mr P said he 
wanted to cancel the agreement in October  2017. Mr P queried the payments in June 2017 
and cancelled the direct  debit in September 2017.  It did take Mr P until October 2017 to say 
he wanted to cancel the agreement, but its clear he was unhappy within a short period of 
time. He was querying payments  in June 2017 because he wasnt sure how theyd been 
calculated.  
Ezeecopy has questioned  the credibility  of Mr Ps submissions. While there are some 
differences in Ezeecopys and Mr Ps timeline  and version of events, I think  Mr P has 
remained consistent when  complaining  he thought the agreement was mis-sold.  His 
reaction, and the time in which he reacted are consistent with someone  who was mis-sold  an 
agreement and had unexpected payments taken from their account. Mr Ps testimony  only 
forms part of my considerations,  and I dont think theres sufficient evidence to demonstrate 
its not credible and that I should discount  it.
Ezeecopy has said it should be given  the opportunity  to collect the equipment before any 
decision is reached. Ezeecopy had an opportunity to resolve things for Mr P when he 
originally complained. Things werent resolved so Im considering Mr Ps complaint about the 
sale of the agreement. Its not my role to act as a go-between between Mr P and Ezeecopy.  
That being  said,  should Mr P ultimately accept the decision, he should of course allow  
Ezeecopy to collect its goods. 
Ref: DRN450589610Ezeecopy has also referred to court judgments  saying the agreement was clear and 
enforceable. It says that theres been no ruling of misrepresentation  against it. And it says an 
FCA associate said the agreement was clear.  Ive thought about everything Ezeecopy has to 
say and looked at the evidence it provided.  But to be clear, its my role to determine 
complaints by reference to what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Its not my role to comment  on the enforceability of the agreement or whether it is compliant. 
Thats something for a court to decide.  In making  my decision,  amongst other  things, I need  
to have regard  to any relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes  of practice and good  industry  practice at the relevant time. And from 
considering everything  in Mr Ps specific circumstances,  I dont think the terms of the 
agreement were made sufficiently clear  to him. 
If, as Ezeecopy has pointed out, Mr P has claimed  back the money  he paid towards the 
agreement, I agree  that there will be nothing for Ezeecopy to refund. 
Mr P has said that he is part of a group that wants to take Ezeecopy to court,  but hes not 
willing to do this until he receives a final decision from our service. As the court proceedings 
are not currently ongoing,  and as there  has been no decision made  on the merits of the 
complaint by the court, I see no reason  to dismiss the complaint on the grounds that there 
are ongoing  court proceedings.  I should, however, point out that if Mr P accepts this 
decision, it becomes  legally  binding.  He may want  to seek  legal advice  before accepting  the 
decision to see if it would  affect the court action.  
Therefore, for the reasons given, my final decision is going  to follow  my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Ezeecopy  Limited should:
1.Cancel the hire agreement with nothing  further to pay. 
2.Collect the goods and paper, at no cost,  from Mr P. 
3.Remove all records  of the hire agreement  from Mr Ps credit file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4505896