K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains about advice given by HDIFA (then part of Berkshire  Financial Advisers
Ltd) to transfer  the value  of her deferred benefits  in a former employers pension  scheme  to
a self invested personal pension (SIPP)  and invest in unregulated investments.
Meyado Private Wealth Management London  Ltd (Meyado) is now responsible  for the advice
HDIFA gave.
background
Ive considered Miss Ms complaint before.  I issued a provisional decision on 20 January 
2020. Ive summarised  the findings  I reached  below. But Ill first recap the facts  and how our 
investigation progressed.  
Miss M had deferred benefits in a former employers final salary  pension scheme. She was 
referred to a firm Ill call Firm A (an appointed  representative of a regulated  firm).  Firm A 
didnt have the necessary permissions to advice on final salary pension  transfers.  So Miss M 
was referred to HDIFA.
Towards the end of 2011, following advice  from HDIFA, Miss M transferred the value of her
deferred benefits (£104,223.28) to a SIPP. In January 2012 she invested a total of 
£97,998.50 in carbon credits and White Sands, a property development in Brazil.
In 2016 Miss Ms representative complained on her behalf to Meyado. It didnt uphold the
complaint. Miss Ms representative referred it to us.
An adjudicator investigated Miss Ms complaint. He concluded that Meyado had given
unsuitable advice.  He referred to the regulators consultation about updating the redress
methodology where unsuitable advice had been  given to transfer from an occupational
pension scheme  and said hed update the parties  as to how redress should  be calculated.
We later sent the regulators published  guidance.  We suggested that Meyado undertake a
redress calculation in line with the methodology set out.
Meyado didnt agree that the complaint should be upheld. In summary it said our analysis of 
the factual matters was flawed; there  was an absence of evidence about Firm As role; it 
wasnt fair and reasonable to hold HDIFA liable  in full when the money was invested on the 
advice of someone else; and HDIFA had no control over but was being  blamed for Miss Ms 
investment decisions.  
We then made some  further  enquiries of Miss M. We were aware that in some cases  
investors had received  incentive payments. Miss Ms representative  confirmed that Miss M 
had received a payment of £37,611.80 on 23 January  2012.
Miss M told us a friend had suggested an adviser  with a business Ill call Firm B might  be 
able to help Miss M with a mortgage. The adviser was able to assist and handled the matter  
very well. Sometime after Miss M got a letter from him about taking money out of a pension.  
She called him and he contacted her a few days later to ask some  questions and made an 
appointment to visit her. He didnt  attend  but he sent a colleague. Miss M says he made it 
sound as though it would be beneficial and that everything was regulated and done properly.
Ref: DRN48025922Miss M said she was vulnerable. She wasnt financially experienced and shed trusted  the 
adviser. It seemed a good and safe opportunity. She said she didnt understand why we 
were asking about HDIFA. She didnt know who they were and she didnt  think  shed spoken 
to them  unless they were connected  to Firm Bs adviser. 
Miss M admitted that at the time her financial position wasnt  good. She was only working  
part time. Her car was unreliable and she used some of the money she got to replace it. The 
rest helped  with her daughters university  tuition and accommodation fees.
We shared what Miss M had said with Meyado. It said Miss Ms dealings  were with Firm Bs 
adviser and not HDIFA. Shed previously referred to Firm A and her initial complaint to us 
had been against that business. She was in severe  financial difficulties at the time of the 
transfer. Shed confirmed  shed received a financial incentive which she hadnt  disclosed 
when she originally complained. The availability of that payment would have  been  a powerful 
motivating factor in her decision  to transfer  her pension. Shed have transferred anyway and 
irrespective of any advice  to the contrary.
Meyado also pointed to what Miss M had said about not knowing who HDIFA was. And to 
what shed said about Firm Bs advisers  part in the matter  and the trust shed placed  in him. 
She blamed an entity (or entities)  other  than HDIFA. That reflected a central issue   that it 
was incorrect simply  to target Meyado with full responsibility for Miss Ms losses.
We shared the enquiries wed made  of Miss M. But we said we werent going to disclose her 
bank statements. Meyado said wed refused to provide that evidence  for unspecified data 
protection reasons. There was no proper basis to withhold  material  evidence  from a party to 
a complaint of this nature.  It asked us to reconsider. But we still didnt think  it was necessary 
or proportionate  to disclose the statements. We said, if we were  going to disclose them, wed 
redact virtually everything. 
Meyado repeated that Miss M faced serious  financial  pressure when  she chose to transfer 
and benefit from the incentive payment of £37,611.80. She was fundamentally influenced by 
the incentive payment and no advice against  would have prevented her from proceeding 
with the transfer.  It was irrational to conclude otherwise. From her Miss Ms own evidence,  
HDIFA couldnt have  known about  the payment. 
In the provisional  decision  I issued on 20 January 2020 I upheld the complaint. In brief my 
findings were:
was HDIFAs advice  suitable?
HDIFA couldnt fulfil its regulatory duties to Miss M without considering  the overall 
transaction. To determine if the transfer  to a SIPP  was suitable HDIFA had to 
understand what the SIPP was going  to be invested  in. HDIFA knew  from the outset 
that Miss M intended to invest in unregulated investments.
The regulators alert 18 January 2013 alert makes it clear  that HDIFA couldnt  just 
advise on the SIPP itself. The underlying investments were  part and parcel of the 
transfer. HDIFA needed to consider their suitability too. And even if the introduction 
had come from another regulated firm and HDIFA had made  it clear  that it wasnt  
giving advice on the underlying investments.
what would  suitable  advice have been?
Ref: DRN48025923As per COBS  19.1.6G, HDIFA should  have started by assuming the transfer wouldnt 
be suitable. Further examination would have  confirmed  that.
The assessment  of Miss Ms attitude to risk wasnt credible. She didnt have the 
capacity for loss that could result. Her deferred benefits represented her only pension 
provision. Her earnings were modest  and her ability to make further provision was 
limited. If shed  described her deferred pension as insignificant it was up to HDIFA 
to test that and explain  shed be giving  up valuable  virtually  guaranteed benefits  in 
return for those dependent on investment performance. 
Both investments  were unregulated. I referred to what  the regulator had said about  
that type of investment. Virtually all of Miss Ms only pension  was invested in 
unregulated funds. She should have been advised  against  transferring and investing 
any of her pension funds in carbon credits or White Sands. The advice was 
unsuitable. 
Meyado didnt argue that its advice  was suitable.  Its position  was that, due to the 
involvement of others, it isnt fair and reasonable to hold it responsible for Miss Ms 
losses in full.
It could be argued  that Miss Ms losses stem mainly from the failure  of the 
investment. And, given  that the funds transferred were initially held in cash, no loss 
had resulted by the time HDIFAs  role ceased. But HDIFA  knew  that, ultimately,  the 
proposed investment  was in carbon credits and White Sands. The money  was only 
available to invest because HDIFA had recommended the transfers and facilitated 
them. Whatever Miss M may have signed confirming she understood that the
investments may be high risk and that responsibility  didnt rest with HDIFA didnt 
absolve HDIFA from its responsibility to consider the investments too.
what would  Miss M have done if HDIFA had given her suitable  advice?
Miss M trusted  Firm Bs adviser.  But shed been  referred to HDIFA for specialist  
pension transfer  advice. I didnt think shed have  ignored advice from HDIFA not to 
transfer. I thought  shed have placed  weight on what HDIFA said. If HDIFA had given 
suitable advice,  that she shouldnt transfer,  Miss M would have thought again.
Instead HDIFAs unsuitable advice effectively endorsed  what she may already have 
been told by others about the benefits of transferring so she could invest in carbon 
credits and White Sands.  So Miss M had no reason  not to go ahead.
HDIFA should have  considered the investments and spelled  out the risks. That would 
have counterbalanced  any overly  positive views expressed by any other  party. No 
one explained  to Miss M how risky those sorts of investment were.  If HDIFA had
done that and told Miss M it didnt recommend the transfer, shed have thought about 
whether what she was planning  was a good  idea after all.
HDIFA may not have  been prepared to facilitate  the transfer on an insistent client  
basis. HDIFA would have  had to discuss with Miss M why she wanted to go ahead, 
despite specialist  advice against  and record her reasons. That would have  
concentrated her mind  on whether it was really advisable. 
If HDIFA wasnt prepared to process the transfer  on an insistent client  basis Miss M 
would have needed to have found another adviser who presumably would have given 
her suitable advice  that she shouldnt transfer.  
Miss M received a very substantial  payment  - £37,611.80 - in return for investing as 
she did. Most people would want to access that sort of payment. It was a motivating 
factor in Miss Ms decision to go ahead.
She no doubt welcomed the money. But she wasnt  in severe  financial difficulties. 
Nor was she actively looking to raise money. Shed been contacted by Firm Bs 
Ref: DRN48025924adviser whod  suggested  transferring and the possibility of a tax free payment. If 
shed been told she risked losing her entire pension fund, it wasnt  clear  shed  have 
gone ahead, just to secure  the payment.
She hadnt concealed the payment. Shed provided the details wed requested and a 
copy of her bank statement. 
But, as shed had the use and benefit of the payment, it should  be taken into account  
in calculating redress.
the role of Firm A and others
I referred to DISP 3.6.1R. It requires  me to determine a complaint by reference to 
what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. I 
agreed the involvement of other  parties is a relevant factor. I also referred to DISP 
3.5.2R, DISP 3.5.3R and DISP 3.6.3G.
Miss Ms complaint has been  made against  HDIFA.  That didnt mean I hadnt 
considered the involvement of others.  Or that we wont  consider whether any other  
party might  have  some responsibility.  But a conclusion  that, despite  the involvement  
of other  (regulated) entities, the complaint should be upheld against the party 
complained about  and that party should  meet the consumers losses in full, wont  
necessarily be unfair  or unreasonable.
Miss M hadnt said HDIFA was the culpable party.  She didnt recall HDIFAs part at 
all. She says her dealings were with Firm Bs adviser. He instigated and drove the 
whole process. But, as Meyado accepts, who Miss M thinks  is responsible wont be 
conclusive  a consumer  may not fully appreciate the responsibilities of each party 
involved. Miss M trusted  the adviser and I didnt underplay  his role or influence.  He 
was and remains a regulated adviser.  He may have given regulated  advice about  the 
investment. Or he may have acted in an unregulated  capacity. 
But hed referred Miss M to Firm A for advice. Firm A couldnt  advise and introduced 
Miss M to HDIFA. Firm A did some initial information gathering  completing a fact 
find and researching Miss Ms existing pension. The information was submitted to 
HDIFA and used,  together with any additional details obtained by HDIFA, to prepare  
the recommendation report. Firm A may also have  verified  the consumers identity. 
And Firm A got a fee (£500) for the introduction.
From  what Ive seen Firm A didnt give advice. But theres no dispute  (and despite 
the fact that Miss M may not now recall) that HDIFA did advise. It was up to HDIFA to 
give suitable advice.  That advice should  have taken into account the proposed  
underlying investment(s). It wasnt open to HDIFA to seek to limit its advice to the 
SIPP wrapper. Consideration has to be given  to the suitability of the overall 
proposition, that is, the wrapper (here the SIPP) and the expected underlying  
investment  here high risk, illiquid unregulated funds,  and the type of investment 
mentioned in the FCAs alert.
We hadnt simply relied on what Firm A said  that it wasnt  responsible  and didnt 
advise  and disregarded similar evidence from Meyado and continued with the 
complaint against it. Miss M complained to Meyado in May 2016. In its reply  on 5 July 
2016 Meyado  denied  any responsibility  for the underlying investments and said the 
complaint should be directed to Firm A or its principal. We received Miss Ms 
complaint in August 2016. On her complaint form she named HDIFA as the business  
responsible. And the covering letter made  it clear  the complaint  was being made 
against Meyado.  We told Meyado wed be looking into a complaint about it. Meyado 
said (its letter dated 19 September  2016) the complaint should be redirected. We did 
that. But Firm As principal didnt  agree the complaint was against it. We then 
Ref: DRN48025925reverted to dealing  with the complaint against Meyado. That was the complaint wed 
received and it was HDIFA  that had advised in connection with the transfer. 
Once the investments had been  made  Miss M wouldnt have been able to have 
disinvested. HDIFA cant avoid responsibility for its unsuitable advice by saying 
another party should have reviewed things later and told Miss M she should invest 
differently. HDIFA knew the purpose  of the transfer  to the SIPP was to invest in 
carbon credits and White  Sands.  HDIFA is responsible for losses  flowing from its 
unsuitable advice.
compensation and responsibility for the underlying investments
HDIFA wasnt simply arranging the transfer . HDIFA advised  on whether Miss M 
should transfer. If that advice was unsuitable, HDIFA was responsible for Miss Ms 
losses in consequence of that unsuitable advice  the losses  shed suffered  as a 
result of transferring  to the SIPP and investing  in carbon credits and White  Sands. 
That redress wasnt wrong  in law or irrational. It reflected the facts of the case and 
HDIFAs pivotal part in the matter: HDIFA was in a position prevent the transfer. 
Instead HDIFA facilitated it, having given  unsuitable  advice that Miss M should 
transfer. 
If Meyado considers  that others have some responsibility in the matter,  its
presumably open to Meyado to pursue those other  parties.  Miss M, if her losses  were 
met in full by Meyado, wouldnt  object to assigning her rights  to Meyado.
HDIFA couldnt advise  on the transfers to a SIPP without considering the intended  
underlying investments.  HDIFA  is responsible  for the underlying investments. It 
wasnt that HDIFA had no control  over but is being  blamed for Miss Ms investment 
decisions. Shed been referred  to HDIFA for specialist advice about possibly giving 
up valuable deferred defined benefits and investing in a high risk, speculative  
investments. HDIFA gave her unsuitable advice and is responsible  for the 
consequences of that. 
I set out what I considered would be fair compensation. 
responses to my provisional  decision 
Miss Ms representative confirmed that Miss M was happy to accept my provisional  decision. 
Meyado wasnt. In summary Meyado said:
Miss Ms decision  to transfer was made  with assistance  or advice from a number of
entities, not just HDIFA. Id continued to ignore the material involvement of others  
Firm A (a regulated entity) and Firm Bs adviser.   
Miss M (on legal  advice) had originally directed her complaint to Firm A. It had issued 
a denial  and wed taken  that at face value. Wed advanced the complaint against  
Meyado which  had also denied responsibility.  That wasnt fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances and was irrational. 
Id been unwilling to look into the relationship between Miss M and Firm A. Id 
deliberately excluded relevant matters. That suggests, where multiple entities are 
involved (regulated or otherwise) well ignore  all but the one at which  the complaint is 
directed and hold it liable,  irrespective  of where  responsibility properly lies. Thats 
contrary to our obligations under the Financial  Services and Markets Act (FSMA)  and 
unjust to one or more  parties. 
That approach  had handicapped  Meyado.  Key documents and evidence from Firm A
Ref: DRN48025926havent been made available. Our enquiries are at best incomplete.  Meyados ability  
to defend itself had been impaired. 
That had led to a fundamental  error  as to causation  that without Meyados 
involvement, the investments and Miss Ms losses, couldnt have happened. That 
oversimplified the true position  and failed to take into account Miss Ms decision to 
invest and that it is the investments, not the SIPP, which  are the primary  cause of her 
losses. 
Wed assumed Miss M was an inexperienced investor. Thats  contrary to how she 
described herself and her investment profile. Its irrational and ignores evidence in 
favour of assumptions. 
Meyado also highlighted sections of my provisional decision.
Miss M had already decided to transfer before HDIFAs involvement. Her decision 
cant have been influenced by HDIFA. Firm A was to advise on the investment after 
the transfer. My decision was irrational and relied on speculation, not facts.
Another entity (not HDIFA) was the materially active advising entity.  Our 
unwillingness to investigate other entities involvement properly or at all was irrational 
and unfair. We hadnt properly  considered  what was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
Miss M received a substantial incentive payment (£37,611).  On her own evidence 
she was in desperate  need of those substantial funds. It was unfounded  speculation  
and irrational to conclude Miss M wouldnt  have proceeded anyway. The evidence 
overwhelmingly points  to the conclusion shed have proceeded  with her chosen  
investment come  what may. 
An entity other than HDIFA actually advised on the investment. HDIFA had no 
involvement in the decision  to invest in carbon credits/White Sands. HDIFA cant  be 
blamed for any investment decision it didnt know about,  made  after its involvement 
had ceased and when it had no influence or control  over the ultimate  investment. 
It was conjecture to say Miss M would have  thought again  if HDIFA had advised  
against transferring.  It was at odds with the evidence which points to her 
determination not to heed warnings and that she invested in a product in which  
HDIFA had no involvement.  
Id disregarded  Miss Ms assessment of her own investment experience and attitude 
to risk. That was speculative and not grounded in fact. 
The regulators alert dealt with unregulated  introducers which  wasnt  the situation  
here. 
My decision was unfair, unjust and irrational. Miss M had experienced loss as a result  
of investing on the advice of others  in investments which  had failed her. But my 
decision failed to properly appreciate  causation  and reliance issues.  Based  on the 
information Id considered   or chosen not to consider  the decision unfairly placed 
the entire responsibility for Miss Ms losses on Meyado and so didnt comply with our 
obligations under  FSMA.
Meyado has more recently  made  some  further  representations about the High Courts 
judgment handed down on 18 May 2020  in the case of Adams  v Options SIPP  UK LLP 
(formerly Carey  Pensions UK LLP).  The claimant had argued that the underlying investment 
had been manifestly  unsuitable and the SIPP provider had a duty to advise on the 
underlying investment. The claim was dismissed.  The court  held that the SIPP  provider 
didnt owe a duty to advise on the underlying investments and there  was no obligation to 
Ref: DRN48025927refuse the claimants  instructions  to transfer.  Meyado  argued  the judgment  was material to 
Miss Ms complaint. Meyado said it would  be making  further submissions. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the relevant time. And, as set out 
above, Ive paid attention  to the relevant  DISP  rules. Ive also carefully considered  Meyados 
comments in response  to my provisional  decision. 
Generally what Meyado  has said isnt new. Meyados main point remains the involvement of 
others. I dont agree  we havent  made sufficient enquiries about that. Or that Ive 
misunderstood or ignored the part played by Firm A and/or Firm Bs adviser. Miss M has 
said the whole process  was instigated by Firm Bs adviser. He referred  her to Firm A.  But  
Miss M had deferred benefits in a former employers final salary  pension scheme. Firm A 
couldnt advise  about that and referred her to HDIFA.  Theres  no dispute  that HDIFA did 
advise Miss M to transfer  to a SIPP. And HDIFA set up the SIPP and arranged the transfer.  
HDIFA didnt place  the investments  I think Miss M gave the investment instructions for 
White Sands and carbon credits  herself.  In my provisional decision I made it clear that I 
considered the involvement of other parties  was a relevant factor. 
I acknowledge its possible that Firm A gave  advice about the carbon credits  and White  
Sands investments. And (unregulated) advice  may have been given too. But theres no 
dispute that HDIFA did give advice, even if Miss M doesnt recall that now. HDIFA thought it 
could limit its advice to the transfer  and the SIPP. But, as Ive explained, its understanding  
was wrong. HDIFA needed consider the proposed  investment  too. 
Even if Firm A (or indeed  the unregulated entity  even though it couldnt lawfully  have given  
advice) had advised Miss M, and in the strongest possible  terms, to invest in carbon credits 
and/or White Sands my decision  would have  been  the same. Miss M had deferred benefits  
in a former  employers defined  benefit  scheme. Firm A wasnt  competent  to advise on 
transferring those benefits. Firm A didnt  have the necessary  regulatory  permissions. Firm A 
had to refer the matter  to HDIFA. 
HDIFA had the requisite  permissions, expertise and responsibility to advise Miss M properly 
on the overall transaction. Its role was pivotal, since the eventual  investment was wholly 
contingent on the transfer taking place. HDIFAs advice that Miss M should transfer to a 
SIPP so that she could invest in a high risk, unregulated, illiquid investment was unsuitable. 
But for the transfer Miss M couldnt have invested as she did. 
Meyado argues that Miss Ms losses arise from the investment and not the transfers  or the 
SIPP itself.  But if the transfers hadnt happened  and the SIPP hadnt been set up, Miss M 
wouldnt have been in a position to make the White Sands investment. On that basis 
HDIFAs role was instrumental.  
HDIFA advised Miss M to transfer. My starting  point as to causation  is that HDIFA gave 
unsuitable advice.  So it is responsible for the losses Miss M suffered in transferring to the 
SIPP and investing  in White Sands. That isnt wrong in law or irrational but reflects  the facts 
of the case and HDIFAs pivotal part in the matter. HDIFA  could have prevented the 
investment. Instead  it facilitated it, having given  unsuitable  advice  that Miss M transfer.  
Ref: DRN48025928HDIFA gave the transfer advice  and it is responsible  for the losses  which have been incurred 
as a result. Miss M was only able to invest in White Sands  because  HDIFAs unsuitable 
advice unlocked the money from her former  employers pension  scheme.  The transfer itself 
was unsuitable   and Meyado hasnt argued  otherwise. 
Miss Ms complaint may have initially been  directed at Firm A. But, as Ive said,  who a 
complainant may think is responsible (whether or legal advice or otherwise) isnt 
determinative. We dont  take any denial of responsibility at face value. Our investigation and 
determination of a complaint against HDIFA reflects its central role. It isnt irrational but 
reflects the circumstances of the case. 
As Ive said my starting point as to causation is that Meyado  gave unsuitable advice to 
transfer and so is responsible for the losses which flow from the transfer  including,  for the 
reasons Ive explained, Miss Ms investment losses. But Ive recognised that theres  a 
forceful argument that Miss M would  have gone  ahead in any event and even if Meyado had 
advised her against,  given  the incentive payment on offer. I need to reach a view whether, 
on the balance  of probabilities, Miss M would  have proceeded if HDIFA had given her 
suitable advice.  
Ive thought very carefully about that. I dont  agree  that its conjecture to say Miss M would 
have thought again if HDIFA had advised against transferring. Or at odds with the evidence  
which points to her determination not to heed  warnings  particularly as HDIFA didnt warn 
her against  transferring. And I dont  think  its really the case  that she invested in a product in 
which HDIFA had no involvement. It advised  her to transfer and facilitated the transfer,  which 
meant she could invest in carbon credits and White  Sands. I agree that, in reaching a 
conclusion as to whether  Miss M is more  likely  than not to have gone  ahead anyway, its 
necessary to make some assumptions. But I dont think any assumptions Ive made  are 
unreasonable, irrational or contrary to such evidence as there  is. 
I dont agree that Miss M had made  a firm or irrevocable decision to transfer  before HDIFAs 
involvement and that her decision couldnt  have been influenced  by HDIFA. As Ive said the 
advice that HDIFA gave meant that Miss M was able to access  her pension fund to make the 
unsuitable investments.  She didnt have any other funds to make the investments. If HDIFA 
had said she shouldnt  do it then Miss M would have needed to have overcome other 
hurdles to go ahead. As things stood, HDIFAs unsuitable advice made it easy for Miss M to 
proceed and didnt give her any reason to question  whether what  she was planning was 
really advisable. 
The incentive payment (£37,611) was substantial.  But I dont think  its right to say Miss M 
admits she was in desperate need  of those  substantial funds. As I said in my provisional 
decision I think thats somewhat of an exaggeration.  The money was no doubt useful but Im 
not sure Id put it much higher than that. Miss M was working, albeit part time.  She did need 
to replace her car and the payment meant  she could help her daughter. But, as far as Im 
aware, she and her partner (who  met most of the household expenses)  didnt have any 
pressing debts that they needed to clear. The suitability letter records  that Miss Ms and her 
partners combined  net monthly income  was £3,933  with expenditure of approximately 
£1,377, leaving  a spare income of £1,613 per month,  of which  £1,000 is truly disposable 
income. Miss M didnt  expect that to change significantly  in the near future. That would 
suggest that Miss Ms financial situation wasnt anywhere near desperate at the time.  
Ref: DRN48025929Miss M wasnt  actively looking  to raise money at the time. It was Firm Bs adviser who 
contacted her and introduced her to the possibility of transferring and receiving a tax free 
cash payment. Once that had been mentioned  I can see that Miss M would have been 
attracted to that, especially  given the large  sum on offer. 
But I dont think that must  mean shed have gone  ahead just to secure  the payment. If shed 
have known how risky the investments were and that she could lose her entire (and only) 
pension fund Im not sure shed have wanted to jeopardise that for an immediate (albeit  
generous) cash payment. And, if shed have known that the payment wasnt something  that 
strictly speaking  she was necessarily entitled to and could be treated as an unauthorised 
payment which  would attract a hefty tax charge  over half of the amount paid  I think  that 
would have made the payment considerably less attractive. 
I dont underplay Firm Bs advisers part in the matter. Miss M had an existing relationship  
with him and from what shed seen he was competent and efficient. I think she trusted him. 
From what  she recalls  the whole process  was driven  by him. I think he played an important 
part. But Miss M had to get regulated  advice  from a firm that had the necessary permissions 
to advise on defined  benefit transfers. Firm Bs adviser didnt. Nor did Firm A. So the 
transaction  the transfer and the investments  hinged on HDIFAs advice. 
Miss M had been referred to HDIFA for specialist advice because the other parties  involved 
couldnt advise.  HDIFA were the experts and had the requisite  skill and experience and 
regulatory permissions  to advise on defined benefit  transfers. 
If HDIFA had given  suitable advice HDIFA would have advised Miss M against transferring 
from her former employers defined benefit scheme. HDIFA would also have made it clear 
why it was unable  to advise Miss M to transfer. I dont see that Miss M would simply have 
ignored such advice.  In my view,  HDIFAs advice would have carried significant  weight. I 
think advice from HDIFA that Miss M shouldnt transfer and invest as she planned would 
have called into question  what Miss M may been  told by others about the investments and 
their potential. I cant see that Miss M would  have chosen to go ahead  anyway. 
If HDIFA had said Miss M shouldnt go ahead and if shed have wanted to proceed anyway, 
HDIFA would have  needed to have treated her as an insistent client. As I explained  in my 
provisional decision, HDIFA may not have been  willing to act on that basis. And, even if it 
was, had the correct  process been  followed,  I think it would have drawn Miss Ms attention to 
the considerable risks involved and concentrated her mind on whether what  it had been 
suggested she do was really advisable.  
Overall, on balance and despite the carrot  of the very substantial incentive payment (over  
half of which  Miss M stood to lose if it was treated an unauthorised payment), I think Miss M 
would have thought again and decided against  proceeding  if HDIFA had given suitable 
advice that she shouldnt transfer.  
Ive considered Meyados more recent comments. Meyado has referred to the case  of 
Adams v Options SIPP UK LLP (formerly Carey  Pensions UK LLP)  [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). 
Meyado did indicate that it wished to make  further comments  about  the case. Weve  allowed 
Meyado ample  time to do so. But we have to be fair to both parties so I dont think its unfair  
or unreasonable to proceed  in the absence of any further detailed  submissions about the 
case and when I dont  see that the case is relevant. 
Ref: DRN480259210First it relates  to a SIPP providers obligations  whereas  Miss Ms complaint is made against 
her independent financial adviser. Secondly,  the issue  in the court  case was the extent, if 
any, of the SIPP providers  obligations in an execution only transaction.  Here  HDIFA was 
providing regulated  advice. Further,  the court case involved a personal  pension 
arrangement. In the present case HDIFAs advice  was in respect of the transfer  of the value  
of Miss Ms benefits in her former employers defined benefits  scheme.  I dont see theres 
anything in the Adams v Carey judgement which is obviously  relevant to the present case.
All in all my views remain as Ive previously indicated. I uphold  the complaint. Meyado  must 
redress Miss M as I set out in my provisional decision and which  Ive repeated  here. 
fair compensation
My aim in awarding redress is to put Miss M as far as possible in the position she'd be in
now if HDIFA had given  her suitable advice. I think Miss M would have retained her deferred
benefits in her employer's scheme. The redress I've set out below essentially requires
Meyado to compare  what Miss M would have had with what she's got in her SIPP.
My understanding is that the SIPP was closed on 24 August 2016 - all investments had a nil
value and there was no cash left. So a nil value  should be assumed. And no award for future 
SIPP fees needs to be made.
I've said below that the redress should, if possible,  be paid into a suitable pension
arrangement. But if that's  not possible a cash payment direct to Miss M should be made but
reduced as I've set out below.
what should  Meyado do?
Meyado should  undertake a redress calculation in line with the revised methodology issued
by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.  This calculation should be carried  out as
at the date of my final decision, and using  the most recent financial assumptions  published
at the date of that decision.  In accordance  with the regulator's expectations, this should be
undertaken or submitted  to an appropriate actuarial services provider promptly following
receipt of notification of Miss M's acceptance  of the decision.
Meyado may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to for Miss M's
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These
details should  then be used to include a 'SERPS adjustment' in the calculation, which will
take into account the impact of leaving the employer's scheme on Miss M's SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
The compensation in respect  of any loss should if possible be paid into a suitable  pension
arrangement. The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
It shouldn't be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or
allowance.
If payment  into a pension  isn't possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should
be paid directly to Miss M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for future
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.
For example, if Miss M wouldn't yet have taken a tax-free cash  sum from the employer's
scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed
Ref: DRN480259211according to her likely  income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%.  So making a
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation must where possible be paid to Miss M within  90 days of the date
Meyado receives  notification of her acceptance  of my final decision.  Further  interest must be
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes
Meyado to pay Miss M this compensation.
It's possible that data gathering for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual  time
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  - and so any
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data
from the DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest  won't apply.
In carrying out the above  calculations, Meyado should make  an allowance  for the incentive
payment Miss M received.  It should do this by applying a withdrawal of £37,611.80 from the
calculation on the date Miss M actually received the lump sum (23 January 2012).
Meyado should  also pay Miss M £250  for the worry and upset this matter  has caused her.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Meyado Private Wealth Management London Limited must redress 
Miss M as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 November 2020. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4802592