K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Miss B says Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss B says the PPI was added  without her knowledge. Miss B bought the PPI in a 
phone call shortly after starting the card. Capital One hasnt been able to provide  a 
copy of the phone call made.  But it has provided a copy of the sales script it says its 
representative wouldve used.  I think,  on balance, that its likely the representative 
wouldve followed this script fairly  closely. This script does say that Capital One 
wouldve asked Miss B if she wanted  to buy the PPI. So I think Capital One made it 
clear that Miss B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  
although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss B so it didnt have to check  if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Miss B got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her 
off taking out the cover.  
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because:  
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss B about  that. Because Capital One didnt 
tell Miss B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN42804792my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss B any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4280479