K820x#14complaint
Ms D is unhappy with what U K Insurance Limited (UKI) did after she made a claim on her 
legal expenses insurance. 
background
Ms D (who  is represented by solicitors) was involved in a road traffic  accident.  She wanted  
UKI to provide  funding for a claim under her legal expenses insurance  policy.  UKI sent terms 
of appointment  to her solicitors in October  last year. However, her solicitors  were unhappy 
with the threshold  for disbursement payments those terms contained. They  said the cost of a 
medical report would fall under that threshold  and thought it was unfair reimbursement could 
only be sought once  the threshold was met. 
UKI said it set the threshold at that level to save on administration  costs  and it wouldnt 
change this. However, Ms Ds solicitors  could request payment of more than one item at a 
time to take the total value over the threshold. 
Our investigator didnt  think it was unreasonable of UKI to set the threshold at that level.  And 
in any case he didnt  think there was evidence to show Ms D had lost out financially  in this 
case. Ms Ds solicitors didnt agree with his view. They said the additional provisions  
contained in the terms of appointment werent made clear to Ms D when taking out the policy 
and it was unfair to impose these terms after that contract had been taken out. So I need to 
reach a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has explained it includes this limit for administrative reasons and I think there is going to 
be a cost to it in processing multiple claims for disbursements. So it seems reasonable to 
include a threshold  before such claims are submitted. If UKI was provided with reasons to 
show why that was causing  particular  difficulties for an individual consumer Id expect it to 
consider in that case whether a different threshold  should be applied.  But I havent seen any 
evidence to show thats the case here. So I dont think UKI did anything wrong in applying  its 
normal approach  in this case. 
Ms Ds solicitors have argued  the disbursement threshold should have been made clearer  
when she took out the policy. So Ive looked  at the terms  and conditions  of her policy. These 
say that if you choose an appointed  representative who is not a preferred law firm they must  
agree to act for you in line with our terms of appointment  (you can ask us for a copy). 
And the policy defines terms of appointment as a separate contract  which we will require 
the appointment representative to enter into with us if the appointed representative  is not a 
preferred law firm. This contract  set out the amounts we will pay the appointed 
representative under you policy and their responsibilities to us at various stages  of the 
claim. 
Ref: DRN40359782I think that makes it clear that where  a preferred  law firm is appointed they will need  to agree 
to UKIs terms of appointment and sets out, in general terms what  that will cover. I recognise 
they dont include  the full terms of appointment for the solicitors. However, the relevant rules 
(the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook)  say a consumer should be provided with 
appropriate information about  a policy which  includes  details of its significant exclusions or 
limitations. 
Taking into account what the rules say I think a significant exclusion or limitation would  be 
one that might reasonably affect  a consumers decision to buy a policy.  But in this case the 
information relates to the process a solicitor would need to comply with to claim 
disbursements. I dont  think thats  something which could reasonably have affected Ms Ds 
decision to take out the policy. So I dont think UKI did anything wrong in not providing her 
with more information about  this. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept  or reject  my decision  before 7 September  2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4035978