K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Assurant General  Insurance  Limited (Assurant)  poorly handled his 
gadget insurance  claim. 
background
On 14 February 2019, Mr W made  a successful claim for a damaged  computer monitor  
under his gadget insurance  policy with Assurant. Mr W says that during  the claims call he 
was told collection of the monitor would take place within 48 hours. As the claim was 
accepted on a Thursday, he expected the item would be collected by Saturday. But this 
didnt happen  and on the following Monday (18 February) Mr W called Assurant to complain. 
Assurant explained  that the collection timescale was actually two working  days   not 
calendar days. This meant it expected the courier would  likely arrive before close of play on 
Monday 18 February.  The courier did arrive later that day, but didnt  have a suitable sized 
box to transport the monitor, so couldnt  complete the collection.  After calling Assurant to 
complain about  this, Mr W was told a new collection would need  to be arranged which could  
take a further  two working days.  
On 21 February, a courier arrived again  with the incorrect box and so couldnt complete the 
collection. Assurant  suggested to Mr W that he post the item via another postal service and 
theyd reimburse him the costs. Mr W declined this option, and after complaining  about the 
service he was receiving,  it was arranged that the courier would attempt collection again 
later that day. 
Successful collection  took place later in the day on 21 February.  On receipt  of the item, 
Assurant offered a cash settlement to Mr W as the monitor was deemed  beyond repair. It 
also offered £40 compensation for the trouble and upset Mr W experienced during  its 
handling of his claim. 
Mr W accepted the cash  settlement for the monitor, but didnt think the compensation was 
enough. He told Assurant that alongside the mistakes made earlier  in his claim, a few days  
after the monitor had been collected, he received  notification from the courier  that he would 
be getting a delivery.  He thought this was going to be his repaired monitor, so waited in for 
the item,  but when it arrived, it was an empty box.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service.  Our investigator looked into things and agreed 
that Mr W had received a poor service from Assurant. He thought  Mr W had to make multiple 
calls, had several failed deliveries  and that timescales couldve been better explained to him. 
So he said Assurant should  increase  the compensation  to £100.
Assurant disagreed. It apologised for failing to cancel the last collection with its courier which  
resulted in Mr W thinking he was getting a delivery. It also said that once it receives an item, 
it has a timescale of ten working days to repair or replace it. So it argues that even with the 
errors its made, it still settled Mr Ws claim within the agreed timescale. It doesnt feel any 
additional compensation is warranted because of this. So the case has been  passed to me 
to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN41387412my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  to uphold this complaint and 
Ill explain  why.
Assurant has provided this service with a call recording which confirms that Mr W was told 
his monitor would be collected within two working days . So I accept that Mr Ws item 
shouldve been  collected by 18 February  2019. Instead it wasnt collected until three days 
later. The reason for this delay is because Assurants chosen courier  twice arrived  at Mr Ws 
collection address  with the wrong sized box.
Because of these  mistakes, Mr W had to take time out of his day to make several calls to 
Assurant to find out what was going  on. He also had to make sure he was in his property so 
that collection could  take place. If Assurant  hadnt  made any errors, then he would only have 
had to do this once. Instead  he had to make sure someone was at the property for collection 
three times  albeit  twice in one day. 
In addition to this, Assurant failed to cancel its arrangements with the courier  once 
successful collection had taken place. This miscommunication led to Mr W receiving a 
notification, which he took to mean that he was receiving his repaired monitor back. And 
once again, he had to make  sure someone was at home to receive  this  instead he 
received an empty box. I can understand why this wouldve been very frustrating  for Mr W.
Taking all of this into consideration, I think Mr W received a poor service from Assurant. It 
may well have a ten day timescale to settle  a complaint generally, but Im looking at the 
circumstances of this case.  And on this occasion it failed to deliver on collection 
commitments it communicated  to Mr W and gave a poor service.  The fact that this happened 
more than once   and for the same  reason, isnt acceptable  regardless of its general 
timescales. And it subsequently  caused Mr W a degree of trouble and upset and loss of 
expectation as a result.
It follows that I think £100 is a fair amount of compensation to put things right.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Assurant General Insurance  Limited 
should pay Mr W £100 compensation  for the trouble  and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4138741