K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the increases in his premiums on his home insurance policy held with 
CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS)
Mr and Mrs M were  both named  on the insurance  policy, but Mrs M sadly passed away  
before this complaint was brought to our service. So although I have referred  to Mr M in this 
decision, this complaint  has been  brought on behalf  of himself and his late wife. 
background
In April 2011, Mr M, took out a home insurance policy underwritten  by CIS. It provided  Mr M 
with buildings  and contents insurance cover.  The contents insurance also included  
personal possessions  cover.  Mr Ms home  insurance policy  also included legal expenses 
cover and home rescue cover.
Mr Ms policy initially cost £460.08 for the year. The policys cost increased over the years 
and in February 2018, Mr Ms annual premium for April 2018s renewal was to cost 
£1,284.36 for the year. 
Unhappy with the cost, Mr M contacted CIS. Mr M cancelled the CIS policy  in March 2018 
explaining he had obtained a new insurance with a different provider which  cost £347.46  for 
the year.
Because of the difference in cost,  Mr M complained  to CIS. Mr M explained his 
circumstances hadnt changed and he hadnt  made  any claims under the policy.  Mr M said 
he didnt think he had been treated fairly  and considered CIS had taken advantage of him by 
unfairly increasing the cost of the existing policy every year.  
Mr M says he was charged too much and should be reimbursed  for the extra he considered 
he had paid over the years.
CIS looked into Mr Ms concerns. Broadly summarised it said that the premiums Mr M was 
charged over the years were correct and was based on its own claims experience  for the 
different combinations  of risk it insures.  It also explained that part of the reason for the 
increase was in relation to the insurance  premium  tax (IPT)  increases  that happened  over 
the years.
Unhappy with CIS response, Mr M referred  the matter to our service.  
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  Initially  they thought  Mr Ms complaint 
should be upheld.  They considered Mr M hadnt engaged with the renewals over the years  
and the premiums had increased. So they thought, as there didnt seem to be any risk 
related reasons for the premium increasing,  CIS had treated Mr M unfairly. To put things 
right they thought CIS should pay back some of the cost of the insurance. 
CIS disagreed. It provided more information  about the cost of Mr Ms policy  over the years  
and details about why the premium had increased.  
CIS explained there were two main  factors.  First,  when Mr M initially  took out the policy  it 
included an introductory  discount, which it then recouped  over the subsequent years.  And 
second, in 2016 it reassessed the risk of providing  insurance to those at risk of flooding.  
Ref: DRN47320192Given the location of Mr Ms property,  CIS say it was considered as being at a high risk of 
flooding. 
It further explained the risk of flooding it placed on Mr Ms property in 2016,  meant  Mr M was 
being charged less than the actual cost of insuring Mr Ms property at that time.  To mitigate  
any significant increases in Mr Ms premiums, CIS say it increased Mr Ms premiums  to start 
to bring the policy cost in line with the risk associated with insuring Mr Ms property.
So CIS said the increases werent purely  because Mr M wasnt  engaging with renewals and 
there were legitimate  reasons for the increases.
Our investigator reconsidered the complaint in light of the further information provided by 
CIS. They agreed the reasons for the increases  were genuine and concluded CIS hadnt 
treated Mr M unfairly and it hadnt  increased  the premiums simply because he wasnt 
engaging with the cost at each renewal. 
Mr M disagreed. Mr M argued  the risk of flooding and surface flooding in his area had been  
reduced a number of years ago due to work that had been carried out on the surrounding 
water ways. Mr M explained there hadnt been any water anywhere near the properties in his 
road in the 30 years  he had lived there.
Mr M said that he understood that there has been  lots of floods in recent years, but not in his 
area. So Mr M says that it isnt a fair system  where  an insurer charges everyone more 
because of its losses elsewhere.
Mr M also explained that he recently  went on a comparison site  and CIS offered him a new 
customer quote for home insurance for around  £200. Mr M says that this shows  CIS doesnt 
class his property  at high-risk of flooding otherwise the quote would be a lot higher.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered whats  happened,  I think CIS has treated  Mr M fairly. I know this 
will come as a disappointment to Mr M, so Id like to explain why.
I would like to make it clear that I dont  have the power to tell a business what its insurance 
should cost. I would be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should operate   
and thats not my role. 
But I can look at whether CIS treated Mr M fairly  throughout the time he held his home  
insurance policy with it.
Its not unusual  for the cost of an insurance  policy to change  at each renewal. And there can 
be several, legitimate  reasons for this. But as most policies automatically renew if a 
consumer doesnt  stop it, a consumer who doesnt engage with the renewal process  or shop  
around can find they are paying much more for their cover than a new customer. 
Ref: DRN47320193An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal but 
where they knew, or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with 
the renewals process, they should  have  taken care to make sure they treated these 
consumers fairly  and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour  by 
increasing their premiums just because  someone wasnt  engaging.
So Ive looked  into the policy Mr M held with CIS to see what happened.
the early years
CIS has explained that when Mr M took out his policy in 2011  it included an introductory  
discount. It isnt uncommon for insurers to initially price a policy at a lower  cost than it would 
charge existing customers for the same  risk. This is to attract new customers. Insurers  aim 
to keep the consumer and recoup that cost over the subsequent years. I dont think this 
unfair.
CIS says the initial increases in the premiums each year, were due to the initial discount 
being recouped and the increases in IPT. It says the increases in the early  years were to 
remove the discount and bring the policys cost up to the true cost of the risk associated  with 
insuring Mr Ms property,  alongside the levels  of cover provided, under the policy. Having 
seen the evidence provided,  Im satisfied this was the case.
So there was a reason for the increases in Mr Ms premiums in the early  years.  It follows,  I 
dont think CIS treated  Mr M unfairly.
the later years
As explained earlier, an insurer isnt necessary doing anything  wrong  by changing the 
premium each year at renewal  and this can happen for a number of reasons.
Each insurer, in determining its policys costs, is entitled to form its own view of risk 
regarding things such as flooding. And from this, it decides the costs associated with the 
risk. Insurers  often  use independent organisations approved by the Association of British 
Insurers (ABI)  to help determine  flood risk ratings associated with properties or areas. 
Insurers will typically, over the years, revisit and reassess the risk  using more up to date 
and refined models. If an insurer  thinks theres a greater risk than before, the premium will 
increase accordingly   theres nothing wrong  with this.
CIS says the later increases in Mr Ms premiums were for risk related reasons. So Ive 
looked to see what the reasons were.
In 2016, CIS says it reassessed the risks presented to it by its consumers who were 
potentially at risk of flooding. After  reassessing the risk  which  it is entitled  to do, CIS 
considered Mr Ms property was at a high risk of flooding.  The premiums CIS considered  it 
should charge  because  of that risk were more than the amount it was charging  Mr M.
So CIS wasnt charging Mr M the true cost of the risk it associated  with insuring the property 
from 2016 onwards.  CIS didnt think it was fair to jump Mr Ms premium up so significantly 
and so quickly  so it increased the cost steadily,  to bring the premium up to the level it 
associated with the property.
Ref: DRN47320194So, from what Ive seen,  there seem to be legitimate  risk related reasons for the premium  
increasing from 2016. And CIS slowly increased the cost of Mr Ms policy  rather than 
immediately charging  Mr M the amount that it considered to be the true cost of insuring  his 
property. This seems fair. CIS also reassessed  the risk all its consumers presented, so I 
cant say that Mr M was singled out or treated any differently. 
Mr M is unhappy  because  he considers his property isnt at risk of flooding  and hasnt been 
flooded for the 30 years  he has lived there.  I do understand why Mr M is unhappy,  he feels 
his circumstances  havent changed  but his premiums increased. 
But CIS, as explained above, is entitled  to reassess  the potential  risk in insuring Mr Ms 
property each year. I appreciate Mr M might  not agree  with CISs risk assessment but 
ultimately it is CISs decision as to how much risk a property  represents and in turn the cost 
it sets for the insurance. 
Mr M thinks because  he got a policy with another insurer for a lot less, this shows  he was 
overcharged by CIS. Again, I do understand why Mr M thinks this and why he thinks  he may 
have been overcharged over the years he held the policy.
 
The alternative home insurance  Mr M obtained through an alternative provider may be 
cheaper, and there could be a number  of reasons for that. Its not uncommon for insurers to 
use different pricing  and risk models  over time. For example Mr Ms new insurance provider 
may not place the same  flood risk as CIS placed  on Mr Ms property. But importantly that 
doesnt mean CISs perceptions of the risks were incorrect  or that it treated Mr M unfairly. 
Also, the new insurance Mr M got would have most likely been  heavily discounted.  As I have 
explained above, I think its fair that an insurer recoups that discount  over the subsequent 
years. I dont think its fair to expect an insurer to maintain that discount for the duration 
someone has their policy. So the new policy Mr M obtained, while cheaper at the outset, is 
likely to increase in price  as well.
So I dont  think it is fair to compare the policy Mr M initially took out in 2011  with the new 
insurance taken many  years later.
Recently, Mr M provided a quote from a comparison site in which CIS offered him insurance  
for around  £200.  So Mr M says this contradicts CIS classing  his property as high risk. 
CIS has explained that in late 2019  it further updated its flood risk model  using external data. 
It has confirmed that Mr Ms postcode is now classed  as low flood risk. So it says the 
reasons for the difference in cost is due to the flood risk now being  classed as low risk and 
because Mr M was obtaining a quote  as a new customer, meaning the price would have 
included a new customer discount. 
I know that Mr M will be unhappy with this, as he has always maintained that his property 
isnt at risk of flooding  and hasnt had any excess surface water at or near his home.  But 
insurers are entitled  to review their perception  of risk periodically. And as I explained earlier,  
insurers often use independent  organisations approved by the ABI. From  what CIS say, it 
appears that using  a more up to date and refined  model has now led to the risk being  
lowered. But again that doesnt mean CIS were  wrong in its perception of the risk presented  
to it in 2016.
Ref: DRN47320195In summary,  I appreciate  Mr M will be unhappy  with the outcome. But overall, the premiums 
increased initially due to CIS recouping  the discount that had been  applied. And then, in the 
later years, because CIS considered Mr Ms property to be at high risk of flooding based on 
its perception of risk at that time. I dont have the power to tell a business  what  its perception 
of risk should be or what its insurance should cost. But Im satisfied that in Mr Ms case, CIS 
has shown that the increases in his premiums were for genuine  risk related reasons at that 
time. CIS also reassessed the risks that all of its consumers presented  in those years  so I 
cant say that CIS was treating  Mr M unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
himself and the estate  of the late Mrs M, to accept or reject  my decision before  6 April 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4732019