K820x#14complaint
Mr M makes a number of complaints about  how NewDay Ltd has handled his credit  card 
account.
Background
Mr M opened a NewDay  credit card account and makes a number of complaints about a 
promised 10% discount  he was offered on an eligible purchase, an interest free period he 
didnt receive and misleading information he was given by NewDay staff when he called it.
Mr M says he bought an item for £1,866 on which discount was eventually  given  when he 
pointed that out to NewDay. He says that should  have meant he could pay that back interest 
free over a period  of time and be allowed to make monthly purchases which  should  not 
attract interest as long as paid in full each month. Mr M says he didnt receive a full copy of 
the terms and conditions from NewDay about this point and disputes NewDays  fairness  in 
those circumstances  by charging him interest.
Mr M says NewDays actions were misleading and designed  to encourage him to spend  
knowing it would then charge him interest.
NewDay gave Mr M two main responses to his complaints. In summary it apologised for the 
misleading information it gave him and accepted it could have handled his complaint more  
appropriately. NewDay has refunded interest and paid compensation of £50. It also 
explained why interest had been charged  in line with the account  terms and conditions  as 
Mr M had used the card for purchases. And to avoid interest, the full account balance now 
needed to be repaid  each  month. It explained that if Mr M hadnt  made  additional purchases 
then the original purchase would have been interest  free.
Mr M brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator  didnt uphold it. The adjudicator  thought 
NewDay had dealt  fairly with the complaints by paying an appropriate level of compensation 
and explaining why the interest was charged in line with the account terms and conditions.  
And in line with what was recorded on the account  statements. The adjudicator also thought 
Mr M had received the 10% discount.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and in summary says the discount was applied after he 
complained about it. He says he was given misleading information by NewDay  about interest 
and future  spending and it didnt provide full terms and conditions.  Mr M says he paid off the 
full balance now without  further spending  and says statement information is not enough.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that I dont require  NewDay to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint. But I accept it didnt deal with parts of Mr Ms complaint as it should  and so I 
appreciate his concern and frustration with what took place. I also appreciate  that Mr M has 
been waiting some considerable time for a final decision in this complaint and I apologise for 
that delay.
I dont think NewDay handled  Mr Ms questions about the account and the discount  he was 
entitled to appropriately. The call recordings are no longer available but I dont think  that 
matters as NewDay accepts it gave Mr M misleading information when he called. I accept 
Ref: DRN40672002that Mr M was concerned  about interest being  applied to his account when he thought it 
would not be and that NewDay  ought  to have been able to provide him with a clear  and 
accurate explanation.
Im satisfied that NewDay did apply the discount  Mr M was entitled to and did fairly apologise 
for the call handling  problems.  Im also satisfied that its paid what  I think was a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation and that it appears to have  removed future interest. I 
make clear  that I have  not seen any further account  statements  that show  interest  being  
applied and I can see that Mr M says he paid off the full balance in order  to avoid further 
interest charges.
Im also satisfied that NewDay fairly explained  in its letter  of 20 September  2017 why interest 
had been charged in line with the account  terms and conditions which  I think  Mr M would 
have agreed to when the account  was opened.  I appreciate that Mr M says he didnt have a 
copy of that part of the terms and conditions when he tried to download  them but I think  it 
likely that they would have been  available when the account was opened. I have not seen 
any evidence that NewDay made  a mistake  in applying interest in these circumstances or 
that it acted unfairly  by doing so. I can see that information on this point is also contained  on 
the account statements which say interest  will be charged unless the full account balance  is 
repaid. I think by using  the credit card account  for additional purchases  meant  that term and 
condition applied.
Overall I accept mistakes were made by NewDay but Im satisfied that its acted fairly by 
paying a fair and reasonable  amount  of compensation and by providing  an explanation 
about the interest calculations. For the reasons I have explained I dont  think  it made a 
mistake in applying  interest in these circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4067200