K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complained that Markerstudy Insurance Company  Limited settled a claim against  his 
commercial vehicle policy that wasnt his fault. 
background
Markerstudy contacted  Mr B to let him know a third party had claimed  against  his policy.  The 
third party who claimed said their neighbour had seen Mr Bs taxi hit their car. The neighbour 
had noted down his registration  number and the third party  called the taxi firm Mr B worked  
for, whod confirmed it was one of their taxis. 
Mr B said he hadnt been involved  in the accident. He thought Markerstudy  should  have 
asked him for dash  cam footage sooner to prove he wasnt involved. 
Markerstudy arranged  for an independent  engineer to inspect Mr Bs car. The engineer  
noticed some damage on the car. Markerstudys own engineer reviewed the report  and 
thought the damage was consistent with how the witness  had described the accident. 
Given the engineers  report  and the witness statement Markerstudy  didnt think it would be 
able to show it was most  likely Mr B wasnt involved in the accident if the case  went to court. 
So, it settled  the third partys claim. 
Mr B remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to us. He said his premiums  had gone up 
as a result  of the claim.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Bs complaint be upheld. She thought  
Markerstudy had made a reasonable  decision that was in line with the terms of the policy.   
Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  whos to blame for an accident,  or whether a driver was involved, as thats 
the role of the courts. Instead I look to see if the insurer (in this case  Markerstudy) made a 
fair and reasonable decision,  in line with the terms and conditions  of the policy.  
The terms and conditions  of Mr Bs policy say Markerstudy can take over and defend or 
settle a claim against his policy  as it sees fit. This might mean  it makes  a decision Mr B 
disagrees with, but the policy allows it to do so. My role is to see that it came to that decision 
fairly.
Markerstudy said it settled the claim as its engineer  thought  the damage was consistent with 
the reported accident. It had also been given a witness statement from the third partys 
neighbour who reported that hed hit the other car in his taxi, before  driving  off. 
Ive seen the independent engineers  report and it noted there was damage to the bumper 
that had been repaired. I can see from Markerstudys claim notes that its own engineer 
thought the damage was consistent with the accident. 
Ref: DRN40568932Markerstudy had a witness statement saying Mr B was involved in the accident and I havent 
seen anything to show he was elsewhere  at the time of the accident. Markerstudy said it 
wasnt able to request  dash cam footage because by the time the accident was reported and 
Mr B had got in touch,  it would have been  recorded over. I dont  think Markerstudy should 
have acted differently  here. And I think it carried  out a reasonable investigation before 
reaching its decision. 
I can understand Mr Bs frustration at the impact this claim has had on his premium.  But I 
think Markerstudy carried out a reasonable investigation into what  happened.  And I think  it 
decided to settle the claim fairly  and in line with the terms  and conditions  of the policy.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN4056893