K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Robinson Way Limited  did not provide him with the information he 
asked for and took a long time to respond  to him.
background
Mr K says that Robinson  way failed to provide him with the information  he asked for in 
regard to a debt that it was asking him to pay. He says that Robinson  Way responded to him 
in December 2017 but did not tell him what type of debt he had.
Mr K says that it took Robinson Way months  to provide him with the address  at which  the 
debt was taken  out and to respond  to his complaint. He also says that he contacted  the 
credit reference agencies and was told the debt was closed in 2012. Mr K says this issue is 
causing him stress 
Robinson Way says that Mr K emailed  it in December 2017  asking for further information 
about the debt.  It says it wrote to him explaining the debt related to a bank account opened 
in 2004 and defaulted in 2011, the name  of the bank was provided. It explained that it would 
need to contact the original debt provider to find out the address used for the account. This 
information was then provided in August 2018.
Robinson Way says that although  it provided  the requested information it did not 
acknowledge Mr Ks complaint received in February 2018 and so it upheld this aspect of this 
complaint and apologised.  Robinson Way also apologised that Mr K had found  its actions 
harassing but did not think  that any of its communication was inappropriate.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. She said that Mr K had been provided with the 
information he had asked for and did not think that Robinson  Way had acted unreasonably 
by asking for payment.
Mr K did not accept our adjudicators view. He said that he hadnt  been provided with all the 
information he had requested as he wished to know what type of debt he was being  chased 
for and when and where it was taken out. He said that it had taken Robinson Way five or six 
months to get back to him after failing to acknowledge his complaint and that an apology  for 
this was not sufficient.
Mr K objected to our adjudicators comment that he had the benefit of the funds saying that 
Robinson Way had not been  able to prove  when  or where the debt was incurred.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K made contact with Robinson Way in December 2017  asking for further details  about  a 
debt it had contacted him about. He explained that he was out of the country for a period of 
time and said he did not recall owing the debt.  He asked to be provided  with information 
about when and where the debt was incurred and what type of debt it was.
Ref: DRN46297112I understand that Mr K did not feel that his questions were answered. But Robinson Way 
wrote to him explaining the debt related to a bank account and the date the account  was 
opened and when it was defaulted  so I find that it did try to answer Mr Ks questions. 
In regard to Mr Ks question about where the debt was taken out Robinson  Way explained it 
would need to contact the original debt provider. There was a delay in this information being 
provided but I have  looked at Robinson Ways contact notes and can see this information 
was received in July 2018. A letter was sent to Mr K in August 2018 with the address. So 
while I understand there was delay, Robinson Way did act once the information  was 
received.
I can see that since this complaint has been  raised our adjudicator  has also provided further 
details of the account, including  the sort code for the branch.
Therefore while  I understand Mr K is not satisfied with the information he has received, I 
think that Robinson  Way has acted reasonably in providing the information it has available.
Robinson Way has accepted the Mr Ks complaint was not acknowledged  in February 2018 
and apologised  for this. I appreciate Mr K does  not think this is sufficient and has noted the 
time it took for him to receive a response. I understand why Mr K is upset but I do not find 
that this issue materially  disadvantaged Mr K and I think in this case  the apology provided  is 
sufficient.
Mr K has also said that the credit  agencies have told him the debt was closed in 2012.  I have 
not seen further  information about this but I note that Mr K was sent a notice of assignment 
in 2014 explaining that the debt had been sold by the original  account  provider to another 
company and that Robinson Way would be managing it. Based on this, and the other  
information provided, I do not think that Robinson Way has acted unreasonably by 
contacting Mr K about this debt.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4629711