K820x#14Complaint
Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him three payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policies.
Background
Mr W took out three loans  with BoS in 2000, 2002  and 2004. BoS also sold Mr W PPI with 
each loan. The premium  for each  policy  was added to each attached loan and attracted 
interest.
BoS agreed to refund  part of each  premium on the grounds that, given Mr Ws 
circumstances, it shouldnt have  sold him single premium PPI.
BoS thought Mr W would still have wanted  the protection PPI gave him. But it thought  
regular premium policies  would have been more suitable, and represented better  value for 
money, for him. So, it thought Mr W would have agreed to protect his loan repayments with 
regular premium policies.  And because of that, it offered  to pay him the difference between 
what regular premium policies would have cost him and what  he paid for the single premium 
PPI.
Our adjudicator thought BoS offer was fair. Mr W disagreed so the case  was passed to me 
to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case. 
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) set out how businesses should  look at PPI mis-sale 
complaints. And its said that, in certain circumstances, a business  can think  about whether 
the consumer  would  have bought a policy paid for by a regular premium instead of the 
single, upfront, premium  added to their loan. If the business thinks  the consumer  would have 
done this, it can refund the difference between the two types of policy. This type of refund is 
called alternative  redress.
Where alternative redress has been offered, our service  can look at the complaint to decide 
if we think the offers  fair. If the complaint would be upheld for reasons other than those the 
FCA says are appropriate for alternative redress, we wouldnt normally  think such redress 
was fair.
I can understand why BoS upheld this part of Mr Ws complaint for the reasons it gave.  For 
example, because the policies didnt offer a proportional refund and were expensive to 
cancel. By the time of the sales, Mr W had a history of cancelling  loans early, so single 
premium policies might not have  been  right for him. But I also need to check if there are any 
other reasons for thinking the policies were  mis-sold. If there are, then Mr W might be 
entitled to a full refund  of what  he paid,  with interest added.
Ref: DRN49976072Having taken a closer look, I cant see any reasons for upholding Mr Ws complaint that 
would allow me to fairly ask BoS to refund any of his premiums in full. I say that because:
From  the paperwork Mr W signed at the time of each  sale I think  it likely, on balance,  
that Mr W knew about the PPI, was aware it was optional, and that he chose to buy 
it. I can appreciate that he might  not remember that now after all these years.
I think BoS recommended the PPI to Mr W. And that, apart from the reasons BoS 
gave for making  the offer it did, I think it was right for him given his circumstances. 
For example, it seems he was eligible for the PPI. And I see no reason to think  Mr W 
would have been significantly affected  by any of the main  things the PPI excluded or 
limited cover  for.
Mr W says he had no enhanced sick pay or redundancy  entitlement and that he 
didnt have any other means  of keeping up with his loan repayments if he was off 
work. The PPI benefits were considerable and would potentially  have paid out for the 
duration of each loan had he become too sick to work. The PPI covered him for 
unemployment too. So, I think the PPI provided him with useful protection.
Its possible BoS didnt give Mr W all the information about the PPI it should have 
done  although Im satisfied it made  the costs clear. But I dont think  better 
information about anything else would have stopped him from buying the PPI. I think 
hed still have wanted PPI for the reasons Ive already given.
Taking everything into account,  I think BoS offers  fair.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I think Bank  of Scotland plcs offer was fair. If it hasnt already paid 
Mr W, it should now update the offer its made and pay him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4997607