K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that OANDA Europe Limited  unfairly  changed the amount of leverage  he 
had available  on his account. This in turn meant  that he was unable to hedge his open  
positions. 
background
On 21 May 2018 Oanda wrote to Mr S and explained that the European Financial Regulator 
(ESMA) had announced  measures which would affect his trading account. The email  
explained that in order to meet the regulations, Oanda would implement a negative  balance 
protection (this would  limit clients aggregate liability for all trades  connected to an account to 
the funds available in that account)  and a margin close  out per account rule (which  Oanda 
explained meant that margin closeout will occur  when the sum of funds in your account and 
the unrealised  net profits  and losses of all open trades connected  to that same  account fall 
to less than half of the total initial margin required to place open  trades). 
The email  also explained that leverage limits would be imposed  and what  those would be. It 
explained these  new rules and procedures would be imposed on retail clients, not 
professional clients.
Mr S replied  in June 2018 and explained that as he lived outside the European Union (EU), 
he didnt think these  changes applied to him. And he said he didnt want  his account to be 
affected by the new leverage limits. He asked  for his account to be transferred to another  
division so he could keep  his current leverage  of 100:1. 
Mr S didnt receive a reply to his June  2018 email, and instead received  a further circular 
email on 4 July 2018 which again  set out the upcoming changes,  particularly the new 
leverage limits. It explained that from 27 July 2018  any sub-accounts which  had open 
positions would be marked as closing trades only in order to limit the impact on existing 
trading. However,  it wouldnt be possible to open new positions on these sub-accounts,  and 
instead customers would need to open  new sub-accounts  which  would reflect the new 
leverage limits. 
Mr S again  replied and repeated the fact that he lived outside  the EU, and as a consequence 
didnt want his accounts to be affected by the changes. At the end of July Mr S wrote  again 
to explain that he had not received replies to his previous emails, and had spoken to 
someone at Oanda  about the issue he was facing. He explained that he was told that he 
didnt qualify for a professional trading account,  and that it also wasnt  possible to transfer 
his open positions to a new account  with the same leverage requirements.  
On 7 August  2018 Oanda wrote to Mr S to explain that it was required by ESMA to make  the 
relevant changes to his account. 
It explained the new leverage  requirements  for currency pairs,  gold,  Indices (including  
S&P500), commodities  (other  than gold)  and all other products. 
Mr S remained unhappy  and complained. He explained that the rules have been changed in 
the middle and there is nothing I can do to protect  myself from losing my funds. He said that 
was at risk of losing  over $15,000. He explained that all he wanted  was a sustainable 
solution that would allow him to manage his positions and avoid  a margin  call. He said he 
had asked to apply for a professional trading  account in order  to benefit from more leverage.  
Ref: DRN47092722And he had also asked to transfer his current open positions to the new account, so that he 
could manage  them  going forward.  
Oanda looked into Mr Ss concerns in October 2018.  It explained that Mr S had two open 
positions in the SPX500   40 contracts  long, and 39 contracts short. As these positions were  
held in a sub-account that had been opened prior to the new ESMA rules, the positions were  
now classed as close-only. It explained  that it wouldnt be possible to transfer his positions  
from one sub-account to another.  However, it said that Mr S could close his existing 
positions and re-open them in the new sub-account. It explained that Mr S would  need  
additional cash in order to do this given the new leverage requirements, but it offered to 
refund any associated spread costs involved.  
It explained the test Mr S needed to satisfy  in order to be considered a professional client,  
and it explained  that the rules would apply this account regardless of the fact that he lived 
outside the EU. It did however recognise that hed not received replies to his emails and had 
experienced poor customer service, for which it offered him $250  compensation. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. He said he wanted  Oanda to either refund him 
the money he had paid in commissions or give him back the money he used to open  the 
positions if Oanda didnt in fact buy the contracts in question. Alternatively, he wanted 
Oanda to transfer  his positions to a different  sub-account  which wasnt  affected  by the new 
leverage limits. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  but didnt think it should  be upheld.  In 
short, he didnt consider Oanda  had done  anything wrong. He thought it had applied  the 
relevant regulations fairly, and explained  what options Mr S had in order  to manage  his 
positions. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He explained  that Oanda  hadnt  demonstrated that it 
had bought the S&P500 contract despite  the fact that he had been paying fees for it. He said 
that the S&P500 contract  is a tradable asset that can be traded from institute to institute 
around the world.  I like to buy them from Oanda with the full price and transfer them  to my 
bank account.  He said he was asking the investigator to force them to provide the contracts 
if they cannot provide them [] I would like to get my money  back.  He said that he had 
been the victim of a huge injustice  and that he was at risk of losing his funds, despite the 
fact that Oanda  didnt  even buy the S&P500 contract. 
He explained  that if Oanda had in fact bought the S&P500 contract,  then it shouldnt  be a 
problem to transfer his positions  over to a new account. And if it hadnt bought the contract, 
then it should  refund his money.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators conclusions  and for broadly  the same reasons. 
ESMA introduced leverage limits from 1 August 2018 for retail customers. In implementing  
these rules, Oanda gave  traders the option of keeping  existing positions open. 
The limits were explained to Mr S in a number of emails prior to the deadline. At the relevant 
time, Mr S had two large positions open  on the SPX500. He was told very clearly that after 
Ref: DRN4709272327 July 2018,  the sub-account where these positions were  held would  be marked  as close-
only. Hed be unable to open new positions,  but hed be able to choose when to close the 
existing ones. Having  read Mr Ss detailed comments about how this has affected him, Im 
sorry to say that Im not persuaded Oanda has done anything wrong. And Im also not 
persuaded Mr S has been caused a financial loss by Oanda implementing  these regulations.  
If there is a financial loss, it is purely as a result  of the trades themselves  and clearly  that 
has nothing to do with Oanda. 
Mr S disagrees with a number of things which Oanda has chosen to do. He says that living 
outside the EU means he shouldnt be subject  to the same  regulations.  But the regulations  
that were brought in apply  to companies  based  in the EU, wherever their customers might 
live. Ultimately, he has opened an account  with Oanda Europe Limited, and it is subject to 
EU regulations. Mr S is of course  entitled to move  to a different broker that isnt subject to 
these same regulations.  But I dont  consider  Oandas decision to treat him the same  way as 
it would  treat other retail customers residing in the EU as unfair.  
Mr S has also made comments about  Oanda  not proving  that it has covered  his positions or 
bought the relevant contracts. The terms of Mr Ss account with Oanda are very clear,  and 
for completeness, Ive set them out here:
Term 4.3 says: 
We will act as principal and not as your agent when entering into Transactions. This means 
you are entering into contracts  directly  with us to buy and sell financial instruments. We are 
therefore not entering into a contract with any other  person  on your behalf.  
Term 4.5 says: 
When you enter into a Transaction with us, you are trading a derivative contract. A 
derivative is a contract which  derives  its price  from an underlying asset. This underlying  
asset could (for example) be a share in a company, a commodity such as gold or the change 
in the exchange rate of currencies. You are therefore trading on potential price movements 
in the underlying asset, however you will not have any interest in or be entitled to delivery of 
the underlying  asset. 
Oanda also has Risk warning disclosures which, among other  things, say: 
Our products allow you to obtain an indirect exposure to an underlying asset such  as a 
security, commodity, currency pair or index. This means you will never own the underlying 
asset, but you will make gains or suffer losses as a result of price movements in the 
underlying asset  to which you have  an indirect exposure.
These terms all govern the account Mr S has with Oanda. And they are clear that Mr S wont 
own a contract, or have any interest in an underlying asset.  So whether Oanda did or didnt 
trade in the underlying market as a result of the trades he placed on his account  is irrelevant  
to his current predicament. 
The point is that Mr S has been told very clearly what his options are. None of these options 
actually cause him a financial  loss. I understand that Mr S is currently  running an unrealised  
net loss on his hedged positions of around  $15,000.  Thats not something Oanda is 
responsible for. Thats a trading loss which has arisen as a result of the trading decisions he 
has made. The fact is that if Mr S chose to close these trades now, the real value  of his 
account  a combination of the cash he has and what  his profit or loss is on the positions   
Ref: DRN47092724would remain the same. Hed then be able to open these very same  positions in a new sub-
account, subject  to the new leverage limits introduced  in August 2018. And he could then 
choose to either have  a smaller  exposure (in other  words few contracts),  or he would need to 
add additional  cash in order to open  the same number of contracts he currently  he has. But 
again, the value of his account wouldnt suffer because of this. I also understand that Oanda 
has offered to refund the associated spread costs  so he wouldnt be out of pocket either, or 
double charged  the spread. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied that Oanda gave Mr S ample warning about  the changes  it would 
need to introduce  as a result of ESMAs  regulations. Im satisfied it has explained to him the 
options available,  and has allowed him time to decide what  to do with his open  trades.  And 
Im satisfied none of the options  Oanda  has offered would result in Mr S making  losses  that 
he hasnt already made. Its up to Mr S to now decide which of those options he wishes  to 
pursue. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4709272