K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about a vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement with Retail  
Money Market Ltd t/as RateSetter. He says the car was defective  and dangerous and is 
unhappy that Ratesetter would not take back the car and cancel the finance agreement.
background
In June 2018 Mr M acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement  taken through  
RateSetter. The car was more than 5 years old and had travelled approaching 55,000  miles.  
Very shortly after getting the car Mr M complained about the cars  handling  and believed  it 
was unsafe to drive. He contacted RateSetter  to cancel the hire purchase agreement  but 
was advised to contact the dealership where he got the car. 
Mr M had the car inspected and says he was told there was severe damage to the car, in 
particular the suspension and wheel  alignment,  which was causing  crabbing. The car was 
returned to the dealership who then said that there  was nothing wrong with the car. 
The car was then inspected by an independent business on 16 July 2018. The inspector  
noted that there had been some  previous  bodywork  repairs but these  were  done to a 
reasonable standard. The inspection noted  some other minor issues but didnt identify the 
significant issues Mr H had referred to with the suspension. The report ultimately concluded 
the car was of satisfactory  quality  when it was supplied to Mr M.
Mr M was unhappy with RateSetters response  to his complaint and referred it to our service. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators but she explained why she didnt 
consider the complaint should be upheld. Mr M remained  unhappy  with the investigators  
conclusions and asked  for the complaint to be reviewed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  and I have  not upheld this complaint. 
Mr M acquired a used car through a hire purchase  agreement. Legislation says the supplier 
of the goods, i.e. the car, is responsible for ensuring  the goods  are of satisfactory quality. In 
this instance RateSetter is the supplier of the car through  the hire purchase  agreement and 
is therefore responsible for ensuring  the car is of satisfactory quality. 
When considering  whether  the car in this case was of satisfactory quality its reasonable to 
consider things like the age, price and mileage of the car at the time it was supplied. The 
cost of the car in this case was around  £8,000, it was more  than 5 years old and had 
travelled approaching 55,000 miles. 
Had the car been brand new when  supplied it would be reasonable to expect the car to have  
been free from any defects. But with used cars the expectation is lower and it is reasonable 
to expect used  cars to not be in showroom condition and show  some signs of wear and 
tear. This is reflected  in the price of the car and that a used  car will costs  significantly less 
than it did when new. 
Ref: DRN43604912Mr M has referred to several  issues with the car which he considers demonstrate  the car 
was unsafe to drive  and refers to a garage  he took the car to which he believes supports 
this. The dealership from where Mr M got the car disputes this and believes the car was in 
reasonable condition. An independent  report was commissioned  and while I note the report 
identified the bonnet  and rear bumper had been repaired/replaced it did note this was done 
to a reasonable standard. In relation to the suspension and crabbing  issues  it found that the 
car was in a reasonable condition, considering  its age and mileage. The report concluded 
that the car was of satisfactory quality when initially supplied to Mr M a few weeks before. 
I have noted what  Mr M says about  the car not being driven  when it was inspected but this is 
because of the battery preventing the car from being started. I do note however that a visual 
inspection was completed and if there had been significant damage to the suspension or sub 
frame I think it would have  been noticeable  to the inspector. As already noted however, the 
inspector didnt identify  any significant  issues and found the car was in reasonable condition 
considering its age and mileage. 
Having considered all of the evidence  that has been  presented in this case Im not 
persuaded that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied  to Mr M. I do 
not doubt that it was showing signs of wear and tear but this was not a new car and it is 
normal for a car of 5 years and (approximately)  55,000 miles. As I have not found the car to 
be of unsatisfactory  quality I dont believe there  are sufficient grounds for RateSetter  to have 
allowed Mr M to reject  the car and have the hire purchase agreement  cancelled. 
I note that Mr M says he asked to cancel the hire purchase agreement  within  14 days  but the 
cooling off period, or more specifically the withdrawal  period, only allowed Mr M to cancel 
the hire purchase  agreement. This does not allow  Mr M to return the car, nor does it require 
RateSetter to take back the car from him. Any money already paid, in this case the proceeds 
of the hire purchase  agreement to the dealership,  would need to be repaid by Mr M. 
I realise that the car has since  been  sold as Mr M refused to collect  the car from the 
dealership and that an outstanding balance of approximately £4,500 remains. But as I have 
not found the car to be of unsatisfactory  quality I have no grounds to instruct  RateSetter to 
write off this sum. 
I realise Mr M may not be in a position  to settle  the outstanding amount and if he is in 
financial difficulties I remind RateSetter  of its responsibilities to treat him in a positive  and 
sympathetic way. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against  Retail  Money Marketing Ltd 
T/A RateSetter. I appreciate my decision will come as further disappointment to Mr M but 
this decision is the final stage in our process. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4360491