K820x#14complaint
Ms A has complained that Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a number of packaged 
bank accounts.  Her account history is as follows:
Opened as a Silver account in May 2009
Upgraded to a Gold account online in December 2009
Changed during a phone call with Lloyds to a Platinum account in April 2010
Changed online to a Premier account in June  2011
Downgraded to a fee free Classic account  in July 2015
background
Prior to this complaint being  referred to this service, Lloyds refunded all the account  fees for 
the Silver  account.  Lloyds also put Ms A back into the position that she would  have been  in 
had she taken out a Silver  account instead of the Platinum account in April 2010. Lloyds did 
this by refunding  the difference between what Ms A paid for the Platinum account and what 
she wouldve paid for the Silver account. 
Our adjudicators have  looked into this complaint and they did not think  that the Gold or 
Premier accounts were  mis-sold. They also thought that Lloyds had done enough in relation 
to the sale of the Platinum account. 
Ms A did not agree with this and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Ms As complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I dont think  Lloyds mis-
sold the Gold or Premier accounts.  And I think that what Lloyds has already agreed  to do in 
relation to the Platinum account  is reasonable. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Why I dont think the Gold  or Premier accounts were mis-sold
Ive started by thinking about whether Ms A was given a clear choice in taking these 
accounts. At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened, having weighed up what  Ms A and Lloyds 
have been able to provide me with.  
In this instance, Ms A had held a free account prior to these sales  (albeit with a different 
bank) and therefore  I think  that she wouldve known that free accounts existed. Ms A said 
that these accounts  were  mis-sold as she was told that each time she upgraded her account, 
it would  improve her credit score. But for me to uphold Ms As complaint, I would need  to be 
satisfied that it is more likely than not that Lloyds told her this. And there is not enough for 
me to say that this was the case. 
Ms A said that she was told during a phone call with Lloyds that taking out the accounts 
would help her improve her credit rating. I have asked if Lloyds has any recordings of these 
Ref: DRN47853342calls. But Lloyds does  not. And given the amount of time since these sales occurred, I dont 
think this is surprising or unreasonable. I also think that if a member of staff wanted Ms A to 
upgrade her account  in the future,  they would want to get credit  for these sales and I dont 
think encouraging  Ms A to upgrade herself  online would do this. So overall  I dont think that 
Ms A was told this.
I cant say for certain why Ms A took out the accounts. But there is not enough  for me to say 
that Lloyds did anything specific that meant that Ms A did not get a clear choice in taking out 
the accounts. I think that its more likely  that Ms A was attracted by something that these 
accounts came with, and given that Ms A took out the accounts online herself, it was 
ultimately her choice as to whether  to upgrade her account or not.
It may have been the case that there was some  features or some of the benefits  that the 
accounts came with that were not fully explained to Ms A. But I cannot see anything specific 
that Ms A was not told about, that I think wouldve altered her decision to take out the 
account.
why I think that what Lloyds has already done in relation to the Platinum account  is sufficient
In this case Lloyds  has already  admitted  that it should not have  recommended  Ms A to take 
out a Platinum account. Lloyds has said that it should have instead recommended the 
cheaper Silver account, as the package of benefits better  matched  Ms As circumstances  at 
the time.  I therefore  need to consider whether this recommendation wouldve been  
appropriate.
When the Platinum  account was sold to Ms A, the Silver account wouldve been the 
cheapest account that Lloyds offered that came  with mobile phone insurance. And I can see 
that a Samsung  mobile phone was registered shortly after the account was taken out, which 
suggests Ms A had a need for mobile  phone insurance. So I think  had the Silver account 
been recommended  instead of the Platinum account, it wouldve been  a reasonable fit for Ms 
As circumstances.
I note that Ms A has said that she did not need  mobile phone  insurance  as the phone that 
she registered was an I-phone that was owned  by her employer. But the phone  registered 
was not an I-phone. So I do not think that what Ms As recollections relate to when the 
Platinum account  was sold and the phone that was registered. So I think that Ms A, on 
balance, did have a need for mobile  phone insurance at the time. 
Ms A may now,  with the benefit of hindsight, believe that she hasnt benefitted from her 
packaged accounts as much  as shed hoped and expected to when she agreed to them. 
And given  what she mightve  read and heard about  packaged accounts in general, I can fully 
understand why she believes her accounts  were mis-sold. But as Ive explained, I must base 
my decision  on what  I think  is most likely to have happened and I cant  use hindsight  when  
reaching my conclusion. Having independently looked at the information  provided, I think Ms 
A freely chose to take the accounts and therefore  I think overall that the Gold and Premier 
accounts were not mis-sold and what Lloyds has already  offered to do in relation to the 
Platinum account  is sufficient to put matters right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im dont  think that Lloyds needs to do anything more
Ref: DRN47853343Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4785334