1complaint
Mr P complains about the length of time it took Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) to transfer 
his account after Barclays took the decision not to support its Pension Trader Account (PTA) 
service, the trading platform  that ran alongside  Mr Ps self-invested  personal pension plan 
(SIPP). Mr P also complains that Barclays didnt send him his annual statements direct.
background
Mr P had a self-trade account through Barclays. He opened this account via Firm A, his SIPP 
provider. Barclays records showed Mr As contact address as Firm As business address. 
Barclays sent Mr Ps annual statements to this business address.  
In May 2017, Barclays wrote to Mr P. It told him that it was no longer supporting the Pension 
Trader Account. It said it would  stop supporting it from 28 July 2017. It said after this time he 
would no longer be able to purchase  holdings, but may be able to sell or transfer them.  The 
generic letter  told Mr P that it had contacted his pension provider and his financial adviser (if 
it had that information) so they may help him manage his account arrangements.
Transfer delay
On 7 July 2017,  Barclays  received instructions via Firm A to transfer Mr Ps account, in 
specie to another provider. However,  the paperwork wasnt  complete. It seems the 
completed paperwork wasnt passed to Barclays until 25 July 2017.  
From July 2017, Mr P wasnt able to view his account on line. He said he also missed out on 
trading opportunities because his account was locked.
Barclays accepted  that by 25 July 2017  it had also the necessary paperwork to give effect  to 
Mr Ps instructions. But it didnt check and validate the paperwork until 17 August 2017. From 
this time onwards,  Mr Ps transfer was waiting to be processed. 
Barclays didnt contact  the company Mr P wanted to transfer  his account in specie to until 12 
September 2017. The transfer completed on 10 October 2017.
Mr P contacted Barclays during the period of the delay, asking it to complete the process 
sooner. He told Barclays he was missing  out on trades. Barclays said the delays were  down 
to volume of work. It said it normally took 6-8 weeks to complete the transfer.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ps complaint about  the delay. Whilst she accepted that it was 
unfair to hold Barclays responsible for the initial delays, she did think there were delays after 
25 July 2017.  She thought Barclays shouldve completed the process sooner. 
Overall, given the distress  and inconvenience  this delay caused, our adjudicator thought 
Barclays should pay Mr P £300  to compensate  him for this. 
Barclays disagreed  with our adjudicators recommendation. It considered that £200 was a fair 
amount of compensation.
Access to the on-line account
Mr P contacted Barclays on 12 July asking  to have read only access  to his on line account. 
Barclays said he would have to contact it by phone to get the information verbally, as it had 
removed the on line account following his transfer request. Our adjudicator didnt think  
Barclays had acted  unreasonably, removing this on line facility as the account was being 
transferred. She said Mr P couldve obtained the information by phone, in the interim.
Ref: DRN47784892Account statements
Mr P said Barclays  shouldve  sent him statements  of account. Barclays says these were sent to Firm A. 
Our adjudicator was satisfied these had been sent to Firm A. Our adjudicator thought  that  Barclays  
shouldnt be held responsible for not sending these  direct to Mr P, as his contact address wasnt 
recorded on Barclays records. She did not recommend upholding this aspect of Mr Ps complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions  reached by our 
adjudicator, and for much the same reasons.
Transfer delay and on line access
I do think there were avoidable delays in the completion of this transfer. The time taken between 25 July 
2017 (when Barclays received the correct  information) and 10 October 2017 (when there was no 
holdings left on the account) was 11 weeks. I think Barclays didnt give effect to the transfer in a timely  
way. It said this normally shouldve taken 6-8 weeks. 
I can see Mr P was directly inconvenienced by this.  He wasnt able to access  on line information about 
his account for longer than would  usually be the case, because Barclays took longer to process  his 
transfer. His account was also locked down,  so he couldnt affect any trades during this period of delay. I 
agree with our adjudicator that £300  is a fair amount overall, to compensate Mr P for this trouble and 
upset.
Account statements
I share  our adjudicators  view that Barclays didnt act inappropriately by sending Mr Ps annual 
statements to Firm A, rather than him. Under  the terms and conditions, it says that information  will be 
sent to the contact address on record. Firm As contact address was given. So, I dont find this part of 
Mr Ps complaint upheld.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint  in part and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr P £300 in total,  to 
compensate him for his trouble and upset.  Barclays Bank UK PLC has already  paid Mr P £200, so it 
should now pay Mr P the remaining £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject  my 
decision before  14 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4778489