K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC didnt give the right information on his credit record.
background
Mr C told us he had an agreed  repayment plan in place. But he says Lloyds didnt correctly  
report the arrangement  and during  the period of the arrangement it reported  missed 
payments. He says thats misleading and his credit score has suffered.
Lloyds acknowledged  itd given incorrect information  about  the date of the repayment  
agreement. It apologised and said itd arranged for the date to be changed from November 
2018 to March 2018. And it paid him £35 compensation. But it said that it records a Missed 
Payment Indicator (MPI) for each month  a customer is in arrears with their loan. So those 
indicators are correct.
The adjudicator thought  Lloyds had dealt with Mr Cs complaint  fairly. He noted that the 
effect of making  an arrangement to pay a reduced  monthly payment was that arrears  began 
to build on the account. Lloyds reported those arrears after the first four months  because  
they were equal  to one months  payment. So he didnt think itd done anything  wrong when  it 
reported the arrears.  And he thought £35 compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Mr C said this didnt make sense and there was no logic to the way Lloyds reported this. It 
was reporting  his overdraft differently to his loan. And he said that in January  2019 it 
reported him being up to date but that wasnt the case.
The adjudicator responded by saying that overdrafts would not report  arrears  in the same 
way as loans as there wouldnt normally be monthly  repayments. And he said that Lloyds 
has explained that it was after three months  he built up arrears of the equivalent of one 
months repayment.
Mr C wasnt happy. He said Lloyds  had given a misleading interpretation of what  was really  
happening.
The adjudicator went back to Lloyds who said itd reported his account  correctly with the 
three main credit agencies.  His record shows he was in an arrangement  between  March 
2018 and February  2019  and there are no late markers. If a customer  is in an arrangement 
then their account is technically in arrears.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for very similar reasons.  And theres very little I can add.
Lloyds has correctly reported that Mr C was in an arrangement. Its explained that when 
someone is in an arrangement they are paying less than the required monthly repayment 
and their account will start to build  up arrears. Once  those arrears reach the equivalent of 
the monthly repayment, Lloyds will mark that as a missed payment. I cant  see that its done 
anything different for Mr C.
Ref: DRN44191342Its accepted the date for the repayment  arrangement was incorrectly reported as November  
2018. Its changed that to March 2018. Its paid Mr C £35 for that mistake. I think thats fair 
and reasonable and I dont think it needs  to do more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4419134