K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited declined his claim for camera  
equipment which was stolen from his car. Hes also unhappy that Hiscox cancelled  his 
policy. He wants Hiscox to settle  his claim. 
My references to Hiscox include its agents.
background
Mr E had a professional  insurance indemnity policy with Hiscox. The policy  covered theft of 
Mr Es camera equipment in certain circumstances. 
Under the policy, in order for a theft claim to be considered, Mr Es equipment had to be 
contained within the insureds premises, to have  been hired out or being used on location  
and in transit  to and from the insureds  premises to a location. The policy  terms also stated 
that payment  for theft from an unattended vehicle between the hours  of 6pm and 9am 
wouldnt be made unless  the vehicle was kept in enclosed premises,  which was defined  in 
the policy as a locked building or secure gated  compound.
Mr Es policy  also stated  that for claims involving theft from an unattended  vehicle between  
the hours of 9am and 6pm, items had to be completely  hidden  within  the luggage 
compartment, boot or trailer of the vehicle and all security measures on the vehicle had to be 
fully operational.  In other words the vehicle had to be locked. 
Mr Es policy  included  a fraud condition,  which  said if Mr E made a claim thats fraudulent,  or 
tried to deceive Hiscox by deliberately providing  false information then Hiscox could reject 
the claim,  recover its costs and cancel the policy.
On 1 June 2017, at about 7.00pm, Mr E went to his local police station to report that his 
camera equipment  had been  stolen  from his car. He told police that hed left the equipment 
in the boot of his car, which hed parked in a road near his home, at about 6.00pm on 30 
May 2017. Mr E told police that hed discovered  the theft at about  6.00pm on 1 June  2017,  
when hed noticed a piece  of photographic  equipment  (a gel sheet) was trapped in the boot 
door of his car. Mr E says when he checked  his car he found his photographic equipment 
had been stolen.  
Mr E said that there wasnt  any damage to his car and that he always locked  his car. He told 
police that his partner had lost a set of keys for the car on 30 May 2017 around 9.00pm in 
his local pub. And he gave police model  numbers of the stolen equipment. The police  report  
recorded that Mr E was only able to provide the police with a 48 hour window that the theft 
occurred.  
At 2.25pm on 2 June 2017,  Mr E contacted his insurance broker to make  a claim for the 
theft. Mr E gave the same explanation as hed given to the police about the theft. And he let 
them know  his crime report number. Mr E said that the value of his equipment was about  
£25,000. He subsequently  completed  and returned  a claim form to his broker on 5 June 
2017, in which he reconfirmed hed returned to his car at 6pm on 1 June 2017  and 
discovered his equipment  had been  stolen from the boot.
On 14 June 2017 at 2.20pm, Hiscox emailed Mr E and referred what  hed told the police  and 
broker. It said as Mr E had confirmed his car was parked on the street overnight he didnt  
Ref: DRN45832112meet the requirements for the vehicle to be in a secure compound.  Mr E responded to the 
email. He confirmed that his car was locked  when he discovered the theft.
 
Hiscox sent Mr E another email asking him to clarify how the thieves were  able to gain 
access to his locked  car. Mr E offered Hiscox  two further explanations.  He said that the 
spare key for his car had gone missing at a local pub. And various jammers etc were  
operating in the area remotely. So might have  been able to open his locked boot. Mr E also 
added that hed last seen  his camera equipment  on the morning of 1 June 2017. In a 
subsequent call to Hiscox  he explained that the equipment was actually  left in the boot 
overnight. But that hed checked on it the next morning and it was still in the boot of his car. 
So the theft must have occurred during the day on 1st June. And not overnight as hed first 
said. Due to the inconsistencies Hiscox appointed a loss adjustor to look into Mr Es claim.
On 6 July 2017,  Mr E was interviewed by the loss adjustor  about  the theft. Mr E provided yet 
another explanation about  the theft.  He told the loss adjustor  that on 1 June 2017 at about 
11.00am hed loaded  his camera  equipment  into the boot of his car which was parked in a 
street close  to his home. He said hed taken  two trips to his car to load everything into the 
boot. And that he was intending to leave  home  later that day around 5.00pm to drive  to 
another location to practice taking  pictures  in different light settings. 
Mr E told the loss adjustor that at about 5.00pm, he went to his car and his attention was 
caught by the sight  of what he described  as a green  acetate  sticking out of the boot. Mr E 
said he then opened  the boot of his car using his remote controlled key fob and discovered 
his camera equipment was missing.  Mr E told the loss adjustor that hed then called police to 
report the theft. But police said they were too busy  to attend and take a report from him. So 
he went to his local police station to report the matter later that evening.
Hiscox asked Mr E why hed provided  different explanations about the timings of the theft. 
In response, Mr E apologised for providing inconsistent information  and said when the crime 
happened I was in a state of shock and disbelief and was incorrect  about the events that 
day. I wish I could give you a more detailed explanation but I was struggling to comprehend 
a lot at the time and felt crushed.
Hiscox didnt accept Mr Es explanation.  And it pointed out that when hed reported  the theft 
to police hed been able to provide  police  with a comprehensive list of the stolen equipment 
including values and model numbers. It said this wasnt symptomatic  of an individual in a 
state of shock.  And it didnt provide an adequate explanation for his failure to recollect the 
three alternative scenarios Mr E had since provided  to them.  Hiscox  also said that Mr E had 
changed his version of events once hed being informed about the policy exclusion. 
Hiscox said based on the balance of probabilities, Mr Es initial account in regard  to the 
timing and circumstances of the theft given separately to his broker and the police would be 
the most  likely circumstances.  So Hiscox applied the exclusion in regard to the requirement 
for the vehicle to be left in a secured compound overnight. Hiscox also said it believed  Mr E 
had intentionally  tried to deceive  it by presenting false information about  the theft. So it 
cancelled Mr Es insurance policy.
Unhappy with this response Mr E brought his complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked into Mr Es case. The investigator didnt think Hiscox had acted  unfairly. She pointed 
to the contradictory  information Mr E had provided  as well as the enquiries Hiscox  had made 
which she said cast a real doubt over whether  Mr E had been able to substantiate his claim 
as presented. 
Ref: DRN45832113Mr E disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his case. He said that the 
manufacturer of his car had admitted that the boot lock was faulty. And it had been replaced, 
which was the reason  for the theft.  Mr E said that the evidence  of the faulty  lock on the 
balance of probabilities is more important  than my initial incorrect statements which were 
marred by the stress  of the situation. Mr E provided paperwork to show  that the boot of his 
car had been  repaired  in May 2018 by the manufacturer. 
Mr E also told us that since hed brought his complaint to us hed asked the police  to amend 
his crime report to record that he loaded up my car with my equipment on the morning of the 
1st June 2017to test out some lighting set ups. It was on the afternoon of the 1st that I 
discovered that the equipment was missing. As no agreement could be reached  the 
complaint has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hiscox has referred to a fraud  term in Mr Es policy. This says if he makes a claim thats 
fraudulent, fraudulent, or tried to deceive  Hiscox by deliberately  providing  false information 
then Hiscox could reject the claim, recover its costs and cancel the policy.
Fraud is a serious accusation that can have consequences beyond  the claim decision itself. 
So Hiscox should only rely on the fraud condition when theres strong  reason to do so. In this 
decision I havent decided  if the claim was fraudulent  or not. Instead  Ive considered whether 
Hiscox has been fair and reasonable in its treatment  of Mr E  and that includes its decision 
to rely on the fraud condition. 
Mr E has provided several different accounts  of when and how the theft of his camera  
equipment occurred. Initially he told police that he his camera  equipment had been secured 
in the boot of his car on the evening of 30 May 2017. And hed discovered  the theft on 1 
June 2017 when his eye was caught  by a piece  of gel sticking  out the boot of his car. Ive 
seen a copy of the police report  which was completed on the evening of 1 June 2017, within  
2 hours  of Mr E discovering the theft, which confirms these events.
Ive also noted  that Mr E repeated the same version of events when he spoke to his 
insurance broker on 1 June 2017. Mr E subsequently changed his version of events and said 
that the theft had occurred sometime between 11am and 5pm on 1 June 2017. His 
explanation for doing so was he said due to being in a state  of shock  when he discovered 
the theft. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr E has said. But I dont accept his explanation. I 
understand that we cannot  always be certain about  when events occur and that the theft of 
his equipment no doubt must have come  as a shock to Mr E. But, in my view,  there  is a clear 
difference between  knowing whether something occurred overnight or during the day. And it 
stretches credibility for me to accept that, when claiming for the theft, Mr E could reasonably  
have forgotten  when  exactly  he put his camera equipment  in his car. I also think  its 
significant that Mr Es version of events altered after Hiscox informed  him of the exclusion.
Ive considered the different explanations Mr E has provided  about  when his camera  
equipment was stolen.  And having looked at the evidence  I think its more likely  than not that 
Ref: DRN45832114Mr Es camera equipment was stolen  between 30 May 2017  and 1st June 2017, having been  
left in Mr Es car boot. The reason for this view was that the same account was given to two 
separate parties  the police and Mr Es insurance broker.  And was provided closer to the 
event happening and therefore,  likely to be fresher in Mr Es mind.
So, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Hiscox to reject the claim on the basis  of the 
exception quoted above  that Mr Es car wasnt kept in enclosed premises. The next 
question I have to consider  is whether  Hiscox can go further and invoke the fraud clause 
when it cancelled Mr Es policy.
The circumstances of the claim should have  been relatively straightforward for Mr E to 
present to Hiscox. The main issue has arisen  over when the theft occurred. Given  the 
number of different  explanations offered by Mr E, and when they were  provided, I can 
understand Hiscoxs  concerns.  So I think  Hiscox  was justified in asking Mr E for more detail 
and appointing a loss adjustor to interview him because  it had concerns  Mr E had it with 
provided misleading information about when the theft occurred. 
Taking all the information into account  I think Hiscox  acted fairly when it rejected Mr Es 
claim. I think  Hiscoxs  conclusion  that Mr E had presented misleading  and false information 
was justified on the balance of probabilities. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unfair  
or unreasonable for Hiscox to cancel Mr Es policy and I can see that it acted in accordance 
with the Fraud  term of the policy.  I havent  seen any mistakes in Hiscoxs handling of Mr Es 
claim. Consequently  I wont be asking it to take any action about Mr Es policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4583211