K821x#15complaint
Mrs N complains about the sale of a multi-benefit protection  policy by Skipton Building  
Society. 
background
In 2006, Mrs N and her husband met with a Skipton adviser as they were taking out a 
mortgage. The adviser recommended that Mrs N take out a multi-benefit  policy  which 
provided life cover and income protection benefit. The life cover was set up to protect the 
mortgage, and the income  protection cover would pay a benefit if Mrs N couldnt perform  two 
out of six work tasks set out in the policy because of illness.  
A few years later, Mrs N became ill and stopped work. She made  a claim under the policy,  
but this was turned down because she was still able to perform all the work tasks.  However,  
the policy did include waiver of premium, which meant the insurer would cover  the cost of 
the premiums whilst Mrs N remained unable to work  because of illness. The insurer 
accepted the waiver  of premium claim.
Mrs N has complained about the sale of the policy. She says the adviser  explained that 
because she was the higher earner, her income needed protecting in case she couldnt 
work. She thought the policy would  cover her if she couldnt work because  of illness and she 
didnt know it would  only pay benefit  if she couldnt  perform work tasks.
Skipton didnt uphold Mrs Ns complaint, so she brought the matter  here.  
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be partly upheld. She thought the life cover 
under the policy  had been suitable. However,  she had concerns about the income protection 
cover. Whilst she accepted the adviser had arranged the work tasks  cover for Mrs N 
because of affordability, she didnt think Mrs N would have taken  it out if shed understood 
what it meant. The adjudicator recommended Skipton refund an amount equivalent  to the 
proportion of premiums  paid for the income  protection cover, plus interest. 
Skipton didnt agree with the adjudicators  recommendations, so the matters been passed  to 
me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators findings.  Ill explain why. 
At the time of sale, the adviser recorded  on the fact-find that life cover was recommended  to 
cover the mortgage  and household income protection was recommended for Mrs N for long 
term illness and to fit within the budget.
I agree  with the adjudicator that the life cover element of the policy was suitable. Mrs N and 
her husband  were taking  out a mortgage,  and Mrs Ns life cover was arranged  on a 
decreasing basis  in line with the mortgage  amount and term. I see that Mr N had a separate  
policy to also cover the mortgage.  Im satisfied that Mrs N had a need for this cover,  and it 
was appropriate  for her.  
Ref: DRN40636242However, like the adjudicator, I have concerns about  the income protection  element of the 
policy. Typically,  income protection policies are arranged on an own occupation basis. The 
aim of own occupation  cover is to pay benefit  if the policyholder cant  work because  of 
accident or illness. Mrs Ns policy wasnt set up on this basis.  Instead it was set up on a work 
tasks disability definition.  
The policy defines  this as:
Being disabled:
i)through illness (other than mental illness of any kind) or injury, and 
ii)to the extent of becoming unable to perform  any 2 of the 6 work tasks  listed  below 
without the help of another person, but with the use of appropriate assistive  aids 
and appliances.
The six work tasks are then listed as: - walking,  lifting, using a pen/pencil/keyboard,  
hearing, speech, and vision. 
To be able to make a successful claim under this definition, a person would need to be quite 
significantly incapacitated. Id therefore have  expected the adviser to make Mrs N aware of 
the restrictive nature  of this cover  before  recommending it, and also to record that such a 
discussion had taken  place. Theres no evidence of that here. 
The illustration says the income protection cover had a work tasks  occupation definition, but 
gave no explanation of what that meant. 
The policy schedule later sent to Mrs N by the insurer says on the first page that disability 
cover is on a work tasks  basis,  and that for a full definition of benefit, refer to the income 
benefit definitions.  I see these definitions could be found on page eight of what was a ten 
page detailed  document. But I dont think its fair to have expected Mrs N to read this 
document and understand what the adviser  had sold her. This should  have been explained 
her at the time of sale. 
Skipton said in its final response  letter  that the information provided by the adviser was clear,  
fair and not misleading. Yet the letter goes on to say that the type of policy  held by Mrs N 
was a long term policy which  would provide a monthly benefit in the event she was unable to 
work due to accident or sickness. Thats not correct. It appears that even after reviewing the 
sale, Skipton itself didnt  understand from the documents that the policy would only pay 
benefit if she couldnt perform two out of the six work tasks. Its therefore hardly surprising 
that Mrs N didnt understand this. 
As theres  no evidence  the adviser  discussed  the restrictive nature of the work tasks 
disability definition with Mrs N, and her recollections are that the policy  would pay benefit if 
she couldnt work because of illness,  Im satisfied the policy  was mis-sold. 
The next point  for me to consider is what Mrs N would have done had the adviser properly  
explained the work tasks disability definition to her. I see that she could have taken out cover  
on an own occupation basis. However,  the adjudicator has obtained the retrospective cost of 
this from the insurer  (despite Skipton  rather unhelpfully telling us this wasnt possible) and 
this was much more expensive than the work tasks cover. Mrs N has confirmed its unlikely 
she would  have taken  out the more expensive own occupation disability definition. I 
therefore think the likely outcome  would have been that Mrs N would have chosen not to 
take out any income protection cover at all. 
Ref: DRN40636243Consequently, I think the fairest outcome would be for Skipton to pay Mrs N the amount she 
spent on the work tasks  income protection cover, plus interest. This would put Mrs N in the 
position she would have been, had the cover not been sold to her. Mrs N can then contact 
the insurer and arrange for the income protection cover to stop and life cover  to continue on 
its own. The insurer has told our adjudicator this is possible. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Skipton Building Society to 
refund an amount equivalent to the premiums Mrs N paid for the income protection  element  
of the cover.  This should be from the date the policy was taken out to the date the waiver  of 
premium claim  was accepted. Interest  should  be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum  
from the date each payment was made to the date of settlement. 
*If Skipton considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mrs N how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs N a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4063624