K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Premier Training International Limited has treated him unfairly in 
relation to a professional skills course he took finance to pay for.
background
Mr K entered an agreement with Premier to go on a professional skills training course which  
he started in 2018.  He paid for this course  by entering a fixed  sum loan agreement with 
Premier who paid for the course with the loan agreement. Mr K agreed to repay the loan 
over twenty  months . 
He says this course  wasnt  as described because when he went to do an online exam in 
August 2018 as part of the course, he couldnt access  the online exam. He says he asked 
both Premier and the online  exam company (who provided the online system  which  provided 
the exam) for help at the time.
 
He says that he then thought the matter was resolved and didnt continue with the course 
and stopped paying the loan (in November 2018). So Premier closed his access  to the 
course at that time. It later started to act regarding the outstanding debt it says Mr K has with 
it.
Later Mr K complained to Premier. Premier investigated the matter and told Mr K that it didnt 
feel that it had done  anything wrong  and he still owed it money under the loan agreement. 
Mr K didnt agree so he complained here.
The investigator didnt  feel any part of the complaint should be upheld.  Mr K doesnt  agree. 
So, this complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In these particular  circumstances Mr K can bring a claim  under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015. The general effect of this is that Mr K can complain about  the supply of the course if 
he thinks it wasnt of satisfactory  quality or that there was a breach of contract. Ive reviewed  
the agreement  and other information provided from when Mr K agreed to go on the 
professional skills  course. 
For this complaint to be upheld I would have to be persuaded that either Mr K was materially  
misrepresented what  the course was, and if he had been properly informed he wouldnt have 
entered the agreement. Or Id need  to be persuaded that Premier had breached  the 
agreement.
Having considered everything  available to me Im satisfied Mr K wasnt  misrepresented  into 
going onto this professional skills course. Ive seen what the course aims to do and what it 
requires of those  attending the course.  And I think up to when he stopped  the course Mr K 
was getting the course he agreed to. So I dont think Mr K was materially  misrepresented  to 
when deciding to take the course.
Ref: DRN47663322From the evidence it seems clear  that Premier provided what  it said it would up to August 
2018 when there was an online exam  for Mr K to take. Ive seen  no persuasive evidence  it 
had breached the agreement to that point and Mr K had progressed  through  the course  up to 
that point.
Mr K then had to take part in an online exam which was supported by an online exam 
company which  Premier  used to facilitate the provision  of the exam.  Ive seen  emails  from 
the time showing Mr K was struggling  to do the exam due to issues  with gaining  access to 
the exam  online.  But the reasons for Mr K not being  able to gain access to do the exam are 
unclear. It could be due to the online exam company, it could be Mr Ks computer systems or 
internet access or due to any number of other reasons or a combination thereof.
But I can see significant evidence of Premier  offering to support Mr K at the time (and the 
online exam  company also). It seems  from the evidence that Mr K didnt liaise  with Premier 
to any significant  degree from then until it started  pursuing him for the money  owed the 
following year. And Mr K carried on paying  for the course until November.  And I can see 
Premier says that it continued to provide him access to its content up until the point  when he 
stopped paying (in November). I can also see Mr K had been provided  with contact details 
when he made the agreement. I can also see that Premiers contact details are provided 
when it writes and emails  to Mr K. Its contact details  are easily  accessible online-this course 
being a course  taken  online.
Although Mr K says he thought that the matter  was resolved at the time Ive seen no 
evidence that persuades  me that Premier  indicated  to Mr K that this was the case.  And Mr K 
doesnt provide  any persuasive explanation  of why he thinks the matter was resolved  at that 
time.
And I dont  think problems with accessing  an exam on one day provided  by a different firm 
equates to a breach of contract to supply a complex course with many facets over a 
prolonged period by Premier. And even if it did I dont think  Mr K fairly allowed Premier to 
remedy the situation as it clearly  tried to do. 
As Premier  has noted previously, part of the agreement Mr K agreed to was that Mr K 
wouldnt withhold payment from it, but he did so when Premier was still providing access  to 
him for the course.  And Premier has explained the number  of options available  to Mr K to 
help him be successful on the course.  I dont think Mr K made  any significant effort to 
correspond with Premier to remedy the difficulties he had with the exam or to continue with 
the course. Overall I dont  think Premier  did anything  wrong here as Im not persuaded that 
the exam  access issues were its fault and even if it was it tried to resolve the matter  quickly 
to enable Mr K to do the exam and to progress  with the course  to its conclusion.
Premier tells me that Mr K still owes  it a significant  amount  of money. And I can see in the 
pre-agreement credit  information  Premier has told Mr K that under the agreement it has the 
option of defaulting Mr K and reporting  missed  payments on his credit file.
In response to the views  of our Investigator Mr K points to some of the correspondence  hes 
had with Premier and says hes capable of fulfilling  my part of the deal. This is good to 
hear, and I suggest  Mr K contacts Premier so they can discuss a mutually convenient way 
forward. But I dont think the correspondence  Mr K points to in his submissions to this 
service changes my position regarding how Premier behaved.
All in all having considered everything Mr K has said I dont think Premier has treated Mr K 
unfairly. Im not persuaded it misrepresented  the agreement or breached it. And I can see a 
Ref: DRN47663323number of attempts  to resolve Mr Ks issue fairly.  So, I have decided  that this complaint 
shouldnt succeed.
my final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold  this complaint about Premier  Training  International 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 August 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4766332