K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T have  complained that Nationwide Building Society will not refund any of the 
commission it received from their PPI premiums  for the policy  that they took out in 2004  to 
cover their mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about commission.  Thats 
because their complaint  about the mis-sale of the PPI policy was dealt with in 2012.
Ive decided not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why below.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  still need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  
Act on this date.
On 31 October 2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began  and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act.
Nationwide has sent us evidence to show that Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage was taken out after 
31 October 2004, and that it was a regulated mortgage. And so it wasnt  under the scope of 
the Consumer  Credit Act and the FCAs relevant rules and guidance dont apply. So 
Nationwide doesnt  need to refund any of the commission  Mr and Mrs T paid for the PPI they 
had with their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs T have  said that Nationwides explanation of why the rules and guidance dont 
apply to their mortgage was incorrect. I think that Nationwides  explanation  could  have been  
clearer. But its final response to them said that the policy was outside the scope  of the rules 
and guidance  and, as Ive explained above,  this is correct. So I dont think  Nationwides 
explanation was incorrect or that it should have to refund any of the commission or pay any 
compensation because of it.
Ref: DRN45138992my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4513899