K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Yorkshire Building  Society (Chelsea Building Society at the time) - 
Chelsea - mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs T bought the policy in 2005  at the same time as taking a mortgage. They have  
told us they were sold the PPI during a phone call in 2007. But screenshots for the cover are 
dated from 2005, as is the mortgage application.  The mortgage application form was 
designed to be returned by Mr and Mrs T to Chelsea by post, and I think its likely this is 
what happened. I think either Mr and Mrs T completed the form themselves, perhaps with 
help from Chelsea on the phone, or Chelsea filled in all or part of it for Mr and Mrs T during a 
phone call before  sending it to them to complete, sign and return. Chelsea doesnt have any 
records of any calls.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs T for accident, sickness,  hospitalisation and 
unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to pay a share of £459  a 
month towards Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage  balance in the event of a successful claim. At the 
time, it cost £22.89  a month. The benefit share was 61% for Mr T and 39% for Mrs T  in 
proportion with their relative basic salaries.
According to the mortgage application,  at the time of the sale Mr T was employed as a 
warehouse operative  and had been there for around ten years.  Mrs T worked  in accounts 
and had been with her employer for around five months on the mortgage  application  date.
From what  I have,  I think Mr and Mrs T were entitled to sickness  and redundancy pay of less 
than six months pay. Aside from this, from what theyve told us and bearing in mind that the 
mortgage was used to consolidate  existing debts, I dont think its likely Mr and Mrs T had 
other means, such as savings, with which to make their payments if they couldnt work.
Mr T has said he grazed his knee around  ten years  before the sale.  He hasnt told us of any 
other, or more recent, health issues. Mrs T has told us of a health  issue she suffered a little 
over ten years before the sale.  She hasnt told us this issue  continued or caused problems 
for her after that, nor has she told us of any other, or more recent, health issues.
Chelsea has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account started in 2005. 
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully.
In summary,  Mr and Mrs Ts representative  says:
Chelsea failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs T wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ts representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
Ref: DRN49368352The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Chelsea should have told 
Mr and Mrs T about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Chelsea should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs T and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop just at the time it would 
be most needed; and 
The information Mr and Mrs T received was misleading. These policies were promoted  
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ts. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2005 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Ref: DRN49368353It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Chelsea, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Chelsea  was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
key questions
Ref: DRN49368354Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Chelsea gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs T with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Chelsea gave Mr and Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs T, I must  then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered 
loss or damage and what I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs T 
and Chelsea,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs T know they had a choice?
Chelsea had to make  it clear the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs T have said they had 
no interest in PPI and it was just included as part of the package with their mortgage. But the 
mortgage application form had a box to tick if the PPI was wanted, a box to tick if PPI was 
going to be bought elsewhere and a box to tick if PPI wasnt  wanted. So the application  form 
presented the PPI as something  Mr and Mrs T had a choice about  taking. On Mr and Mrs Ts 
form, the box to take the PPI was ticked - and I think they wouldve known they could tick the 
box to say they didnt want  the PPI if they didnt want it.
Also, bearing in mind the clear choice presented on the application form and Mr and Mrs Ts 
recollections, I dont think Chelsea, in any phone  call at the time,  told Mr and Mrs T they had 
to take PPI. With all this in mind,  when referring  to the PPI in any call to help with filling in the 
mortgage application form, I think its likely Chelsea  wouldve presented  the PPI as optional.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs T knew  the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it without  undue pressure.
did Chelsea  provide  advice?
The policy schedule says Chelsea hadnt made  a personal recommendation for the PPI. 
Chelsea says it didnt  provide advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs T havent said Chelsea did 
provide advice. Bearing in mind what Chelsea and Mr and Mrs T have said,  Im persuaded 
that Chelsea didnt  provide advice.
This means  Chelsea didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs T. Instead,  it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take the policy, including drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN49368355the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs T were given a broad description  of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if either one 
of them  were unable  to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. Ive reached this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs T 
would have taken  the policy without any sense  of what the policy  was for and of how much 
the premium might  be.
Also the mortgage  application form suggested the purpose of the PPI was to protect your 
mortgage payments  should you lose your monthly  income due to an accident, sickness, 
hospitalisation or unemployment.  It also said the standard cover,  arranged  in the absence of 
a discussion about  the customers own needs,  offered 12 months cover for Accident, 
Sickness, Hospitalisation and Unemployment subject to an initial  30 day deferral period.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Chelsea gave sufficient  
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs T agreed to take the policy.
So I dont  think Chelsea gave Mr and Mrs T sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  drawing 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ts representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ts. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ts representative considers to be poor  value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs T about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ts representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs T have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Chelsea ought to have done either. 
Ref: DRN49368356what effect did Chelseas  shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs T? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs T suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Chelsea  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs T. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr and Mrs T suffered loss and damage  as a result.  To answer this, I must decide whether  
or not they would have still taken the policy, had Chelsea done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs T say they would not have taken it and believe I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs T had to weigh up in their own mind the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs T chose to take this policy. So I consider its reasonable to 
conclude they had some  interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But they 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mr and Mrs T thought they 
were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this differed  is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs T have suffered any loss or detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Chelsea told them  the exact premium at the point 
they applied for the policy. Having said that, Mr and Mrs T paid for the policy for a number  of 
years and, from what Ive seen, it seems they were sent information showing the cost before 
the policy started  so if this was significantly at odds with their expectations at the point of 
sale, Mr and Mrs T might have reconsidered  their decision or raised it with Chelsea. Overall,  
Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs T would have found  the cost unacceptable if they had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
Also Im persuaded Chelsea gave Mr and Mrs T a policy schedule before the mortgage and 
policy started, setting  out what the policy would  pay. So I think  they were  most likely aware 
of what the policy would  pay before it started   and if this was significantly different to what 
they expected they mightve reconsidered  their decision. Overall  Im not persuaded there 
was a significant difference between Mr and Mrs Ts expectations and what the policy  paid. 
The schedule also said the benefit period was 12 months. The mortgage application, above  
the tick for PPI, says standard cover is for 12 months. With all this in mind I think its likely  
Mr and Mrs T were  made aware  at the sale that the benefit was payable  for up to 12 months.
Ref: DRN49368357Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs T thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues  recurring  within 24 months of the 
policy start that Mr or Mrs T knew or shouldve reasonably  known about  at the policy  
start or had seen  or arranged to see a doctor for in the 12 months before the policy start.  
Also excluded  were claims relating to chronic health conditions (including indefinite  or 
constant or incurable issues or previously  attended to recurring issues or issues needing 
long term monitoring or care) that Mr or Mrs T knew about at the start, whether  requiring 
medical attention  at the time or not;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr or Mrs T 
werent permanent  employees;  and
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr or Mrs Ts health  issue  
prevent him or her doing his or her own work and any similar work his or her knowledge, 
training or ability reasonably qualified him or her to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mr and Mrs T pause for thought   and may well have caused them to conclude the 
policy was not as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs T from 
taking the policy.
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for them. They were eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to them  should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
The policy wouldnt  have covered time off work  related to the health issue Mrs T suffered 
over ten years earlier or related to Mr Ts graze. But taking into account all they have told us 
about these issues,  Im not persuaded they wouldve at the time of the sale thought  the risk 
of such absences in future was in any way significant  bearing in mind  the time passed  
since the issues occurred  and the absence  of anything to suggest they caused problems 
later. Also I havent  seen any evidence to suggest  Mr or Mrs T wouldve been caught by any 
of the other significant exclusions.  So I think they still had good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than 
Mr and Mrs T might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would  have expected to 
be able to make a disability claim without  having  to provide some evidence  to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs T from taking the policy, Mr and Mrs T, in their circumstances, 
still had some good reasons to take it.
Ref: DRN49368358If Mr and Mrs T had known they could only claim for disability if their health issue not only 
prevented him or her doing his or her own work but also prevented him or her doing any 
similar work his or her knowledge, training  or ability reasonably qualified  him or her to do, it 
might have played into their thinking  about what to do. And I accept it may have given them 
pause for thought  although its possible  they may not have been overly concerned given 
that if Mr or Mrs T were  prevented by disability from doing his or her own work, the chances 
he or she would  be able to do similar  work  would also, in all probability,  be limited.
Ive explained  that I think it likely Mr and Mrs T were made aware  the policy benefit  would 
last for 12 months only. But in any case I consider  it likely  they would have thought a policy  
that paid a sum towards up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit to 
them and would  help them manage the consequences should either one of them  or both  
be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the policy.  I say this taking into account  
Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances, including that they wouldnt  have got full sick pay for as long 
as 12 months and their redundancy entitlement  was significantly less than 12 months 
income. Also the policy allowed for multiple  claims,  could help reduce their outgoings  at a 
difficult and uncertain  time,  and help ensure their home was not placed at risk - potentially 
also helping  preserve  some of their sick pay or redundancy money  for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs T would still have taken  the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what its likely they thought they were  getting  and provided benefits  that would help them 
manage the consequences  if Mr and Mrs T were made redundant, or unable  to work through  
the accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more  likely than not that 
Mr and Mrs T wouldve taken the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ts representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs T wouldnt  have  bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs T believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. Im not persuaded by these arguments.
Ref: DRN49368359Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs T in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken the policy,  Im satisfied 
that of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not they would still have taken the PPI had 
they been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  they were buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Chelsea should pay Mr and Mrs T compensation,  as that would put them in a better  position  
than they would have been  in if everything  had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs T think Chelsea  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Chelseas  statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Chelsea 
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Chelsea gave Mr and Mrs T, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2005 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ts representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find Chelsea negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs T and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Chelsea had been in breach of its duty 
of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs T in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 November  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4936835