K820x#14complaint
P, a limited  company complains about the service  it received from American Express  
Services Europe Limited (Amex) in relation to its credit card account.
P is represented in this complaint by one of its directors, Mr L.
background
Mr L says he contacted Amex on 2 March 2019  to clear the outstanding balance on the 
account and make sure the card wouldnt be cancelled. The advisor told him this wouldnt 
happen, but on 5 March  Mr L learned the account had been closed. He complained about 
the matter and Amex  acknowledged hed been given wrong  information;  it agreed to 
reinstate the account; and it paid P £100  compensation for its error.
Mr L also says Ps credit  card wasnt reinstated as hed been told, and after making several 
phone calls to Amex  about the matter,  he was told the account wouldnt be reinstated  after 
all. He complained about  that matter  and in a letter dated 3 April Amex explained why it 
couldnt reinstate  the account  and it sent P a further £150  compensation for the wrong 
information it had been given about  reinstatement of the account  and for the poor service it 
had experienced.
In addition, Mr L says P was late in paying its rent as a result of the cancellation  of the card 
and it was charged a late payment fee of £479.50  plus VAT by its landlord.  And he says hes 
spent over 10 hours on the phone to Amex about the situation. So, he says the 
compensation Amex  has paid P isnt sufficient  to reflect the cost and wasted time as a result 
of its poor service.
Our investigator thought Ps complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  He thought Amexs apology and 
its offer of compensation totalling £250  adequately reflected the poor service it had provided  
and the inconvenience it had caused. And he said P must have had other methods of paying 
its rent available, as its Amex account had previously been suspended for three months. So, 
he didnt think it would  be reasonable  to require Amex to reimburse the late payment fee, in 
the circumstances.  
P disagreed with the investigators conclusions. So, the matters been referred to me to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Theres no doubt that Amex gave P a poor standard of service  in the events that have led to 
this complaint. In particular it gave wrong  advice  that the companys credit card account  
wouldnt be closed. Then, having closed the account  contrary  to that advice, Amex wrongly 
advised that it would be reinstated, but then declined to do so.
Mr L clearly spent considerable time and effort dealing with this situation. This service  has 
been provided with recordings of 17 phone  calls about the matter,  totalling over two hours  
Ref: DRN47275202duration. And Mr L says hes spent 10 hours dealing with this matter  and that his time is 
normally charged at a high hourly rate. 
But Amex  has admitted its errors and it has paid P a total of £250 compensation for what  
happened. This service doesnt  make  awards  of compensation based on what a consumer 
would normally be paid for their time. Also, the complainant  in this case  is a limited company 
which cant suffer distress. So, after looking  at all the available  evidence Im satisfied that 
£250 is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances here.
I note Mr L has given  us proof of a late payment charge of £479.50 plus VAT incurred  by     
P due to its rent being paid late. And Mr L has told us this was due to the Amex card being  
cancelled. But I see Ps Amex account  was suspended for three months  prior to these 
events and this suggests it should  have other methods available  to make its monthly rent 
payments. Also,  P hasnt  given us any further information in support of this part of its 
complaint, in response to the investigators opinion. 
So, taking all the available information into account, I cant conclude  Amexs actions in 
cancelling the account were the sole cause of this charge being incurred. And this means I 
cant uphold this element of Ps complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Ps complaint against American Express Services Europe 
Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.                      .
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4727520