K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs R. FICL  didnt  actually  sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2001 alongside a store card account. Mrs R 
was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  Mrs R didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me. I reached  a different view to that 
of the adjudicator and so I sent out a provisional decision and asked for comments. I said the 
following:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
I currently think Mrs Rs complaint  should be upheld. This is because  I dont  think  
FICL gave  Mrs R information that was sufficiently clear and fair when it sold the 
policy  and I think this would have made a difference, given Mrs Rs circumstances 
at the time. Looking  at the likely terms of the policy, I dont  think  shed have bought  it 
if it had been made  clear  enough to her that to claim under the unemployment  cover, 
shed need to have been in continuous full time work for at least  six months  
immediately before her employment ended (ignoring breaks of two weeks  or less). 
I say that because Mrs R has said shed only been in her job at the time for a month. 
She says she was still in her probation  period. I think her recollections probably  right.  
And the evidence she has given us from HMRC suggests she had had a gap in her 
employment before that, and a pattern of regularly changing short-term  jobs both 
before the sale of the PPI and later on too. This would have made it difficult  for her to 
claim successfully the unemployment  benefit  the policy offered. 
So, based  on the information  Ive got at the moment,  I think  its fair and reasonable to 
uphold Mrs Rs complaint.  And this means I dont need to deal with the other issues  
shes raised about the sale.
I didnt receive any substantive comments  in response. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint, for the reasons given in my provisional decision.  
fair compensation
FICL should put Mrs R in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
Ref: DRN42129932A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs R would  have  owed  when she closed her credit 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs R owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her 
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs R would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs R would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs R 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs R paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs R 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her account. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs R what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs R a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs R that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Financial Insurance Company Limited to pay redress  as set 
out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4212993