K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint is that XTB Limited  (XTB)  applied the wrong Margin Stop Out Level  
(MSOL)  50% (instead  of 30%) of account  margin  to close  a number of his Contracts for 
Differences (CFD) trades between 10 and 14 August 2018. 
XTB disputes this and says the MOSL  had increased to 50% from 1 August 2018 in line with 
new European Securities  and Markets Authority (ESMA) regulations which  were  effective 
from that date. It also says it gave prior notice of the increase on 16 July 2018.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and initially upheld it. However, upon 
review and reconsideration of relevant guidance  from ESMA  she revised her view and 
concluded that the complaint should  not be upheld. 
The adjudicator noted that the new ESMA regulations  at the time required the MSOL  to be 
set at 50% and applied  to customers new positions  from 1 August and she referred to the 
notice given by XTB on 16 July about the MSOL change. She also highlighted guidance from 
ESMA giving firms the discretion to apply the MSOL of 50%, from 1 August,  to customers  
existing positions  too  alongside guidance about firms giving prior notice of the change.  
She concluded that XTB had given  reasonable notice and had exercised its discretion to 
apply the 50% MSOL  to Mr Hs existing positions from 1 August  which  captured the trades 
closed between 10 and 14 August.
Mr H disagrees  with the adjudicators revised  view.  He refers to further content from the 
ESMA guidance  document  in which he says reference is made  to the discretion,  which  was 
exercised by XTB,  being  dependent on circumstances being in his best interest   that is, that 
the discretion  should not be used  where it is not in a customers  best interest.  He submits 
that the closures at 50% MSOL were not in his best interest. He also forwarded us 
information from the media  about regulatory issues  between XTB and a foreign financial 
supervision authority.  
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as expressed in the adjudicators  revised  view.
The following  do not appear to be in dispute:
That the trades which feature in the complaint  were closed at 50% MSOL between  
10 and 14 August 2018.
That XTB issued its prior notice  to customers on 16 July, which  included  the following 
 The margin close out we will apply to your account will be increased from 30% to 
50%. This takes  effect from 1st August  and will be inclusive of all open  trades  at that 
time.
That the ESMA  guidance document includes the following about the 50% MSOL  
(referred to, in the documents, as margin  close-out protection)  
Ref: DRN43781692In relation  to CFDs,  firms  are required to apply the margin  close-out protection  and the 
negative balance protection under Article 1(e) and 1(f) of Decision 2018 /796 to new 
CFD positions when the measures come into effect . Firms may choose to create 
separ ate sub-account s for CFD positions opened prior to the implementation date.  
Alternativel y, firms  may choose to extend the margin close-out protection and the 
negative balance  protection to existing CFD positions. Firms should  inform clients of 
the changes in the terms and condit ions of their account in a durable medium  in 
good time before  the changes apply.
Firms exerci sing their discretion  to close retail clients  open CFD and binary option 
positions, other than in accordance with existing terms  and condition s, prior the 
measures coming into effect witho ut the express  consent of their retail clients will not 
be considered as acting in the best interest s of the client as require d under Article 24 
of MiFID II.
[my emphasis]
The positions in Mr Hs complaint appear to have been existing positions as of 1 August 
2018. The summary provided by XTB shows that they were opened prior to this date. As the 
adjudicator noted,  XTBs notice of 16 July was reasonable.  The message within it was clear, 
it confirmed that all open trades would be affected  from 1 August and it gave a reasonable 
notice period before the change applied.
ESMAs reference,  in its guidance, to a firms discretion to apply  the regulation in closing 
open positions also appears  to be clear. I do not accept  Mr Hs assertion that XTBs 
discretion in this respect was dependent on what was or was not in his best interest.  The 
correct reading of the second quoted paragraph  (above) is that consideration of the clients  
best interests would  apply  where XTB applied such a closure(s)  in conflict  with its terms and 
conditions, applied it without the clients express  consent and, importantly, applied it prior to 
when the new regulations  came into effect  (that is, 1 August 2018).
XTB applied  the 50% MSOL to the trades in Mr Hs complaint between  10 and 14 August, 
this was after 1 August  and not before so it was not applied prior to when the new 
regulations came into effect. In addition, XTB has shared with us a copy of its terms and 
conditions which appears to have been  revised  as of 1 August  2018 (XTB Limited ver. 
01082018). Section 11.5 of it reflects the 50% MSOL, so its application between  10 and 14 
August was not in conflict with the terms and conditions. Mr Hs consent was not required  
because the other elements (that is, application  prior to 1 August and conflict  with terms and 
conditions) did not apply.
XTB does  not appear to have been  wrong in applying the 50% MSOL  to Mr Hs trades, so 
his complaint is not upheld. I have considered the media information he shared with us. It 
does not appear  to be relevant to his complaint. It relates to a price slippage  matter, not to 
application of the MSOL.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 26 July 2019.
Ref: DRN43781693Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4378169