K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has told him that one part of his 
mortgage account expired in 2017  when he believes it isnt due to end until 2021. And he 
says that RBS isnt abiding  by the agreement in place but is instead taking legal action on 
his account. He is also unhappy  with letters he has received  from RBS.
background
Mr N took out an interest only mortgage with RBS in 2001 for £157,000 over a term of 15 
years. The mortgage was split into two sub-accounts  part one and part two.
Mr N borrowed  a further £85,000 from RBS in 2011.  This was also taken out on an interest 
only basis and had a term of 10 years. This was part three  of the mortgage account.
Mr N repaid part two of the mortgage in full in 2016.  Part one was due to expire in 2016,  but 
RBS agreed to extend this part of the mortgage  to the end of June 2017.
From around mid-2018 no monthly  payments have been made  towards Mr Ns mortgage. 
RBS started legal proceedings to seek possession  of the property.
Mr N complained to RBS. And RBS issued responses on 7 December 2018 and 8 January  
2019. It didnt  uphold his complaints on the matters  relevant to this complaint.
Our investigator didnt  think that Mr Ns complaint  should be upheld. He said,  in summary:
Mortgage term
RBS had said that the term of part one of Mr Ns mortgage originally ended  in 2016 
but it had agreed to extend this part of the mortgage so it would end in 2017  instead, 
to allow  Mr N time to consider his options;
It wasnt clear  to him why Mr Ns existing mortgage term wasnt  altered to match  that 
of the further borrowing he took out in 2011.  But that alone didnt mean RBS should 
now align the terms on the outstanding parts of the mortgage;
Based  on what hed seen he didnt think the mortgage payments were affordable or 
sustainable for Mr N at this time. He felt that further  extending  the term of the 
mortgage would lead to more interest  being charged and the debt increasing  further.  
And he didnt feel that this would be in Mr Ns best interests;
He suggested  that Mr N and RBS should keep an open  dialogue so he could keep it 
updated on any changes to his circumstances. And he suggested that Mr N may wish 
to seek independent financial advice to see what options are available  to him;
Interest rate
Mr N had said that he applied for a five year fixed  interest rate in 2016 but RBS 
instead applied  a two year fixed rate. He wanted  RBS to put the five year rate in 
place instead;
Having considered the paperwork  alongside what Mr N had said he was persuaded 
RBS had correctly  applied the two year fixed rate. While  it was clear to him that a five 
year rate was also discussed he was satisfied that Mr N chose to apply for the lower  
two year fixed rate instead, at the time;
Ref: DRN48882782Legal action/repossession
Mr N had said that RBS wasnt abiding by the agreement  in place and was instead 
taking legal action  on his account. And he was unhappy with letters  hed received 
from RBS saying  it was going to close his account and repossess his house;
He appreciated  that Mr N felt strongly about this matter. But the term of each part of 
his mortgage and the interest rate applicable were in line with his mortgage  
agreement. And looking  at the overall position  of Mr Ns mortgage  account he didnt 
think it was unfair  that RBS was seeking  litigation action  at this time.
Mr N doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked for his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has raised  a large number of issues. However,  as our investigator has explained, we 
are only able to deal with complaints that have been  brought  to this service within  6 months  
of the date of the business final response. For the avoidance of doubt, I have dealt in this 
decision only with those  issues  that I find relate  to the complaint outlined  at the start of this 
decision. 
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments Ive come to the same  
conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mortgage term
Mr N says that his mortgage  account  isnt due to end until 2021. 
Ive looked at the original mortgage agreement which was taken out in 2001. Im satisfied 
that this shows that the mortgage  had a term of 15 years. This meant that both parts  of the 
mortgage were due to expire in 2016.
Mr N repaid part two of the mortgage in full in 2016.  But the contact notes  for the mortgage  
show that part one was extended until 2017  to allow Mr N time to consider his options and 
take financial advice.  So Im satisfied that this part of the mortgage has now expired.
Ive also seen evidence  to show that the mortgage offer for additional  borrowing in 2011 was 
for a ten year term. So that part of the mortgage is still in place.
RBS says that there havent been  any payments  to Mr Ns mortgage  account since  the 
middle of 2018.  And the evidence supplied to me suggests that Mr Ns earning potential from 
his job is limited. So I agree with our investigator that the mortgage  payments are not 
affordable for Mr N at this time.  And I also agree that extending the term of the mortgage 
would lead to more interest being  charged. I dont think  that this would ultimately be in 
Mr Ns best interests. For these reasons, Im not persuaded  that it would be reasonable for 
me to ask RBS to extend the term on part one of his mortgage.
Ref: DRN48882783Interest rate
Mr N says that he agreed a five year fixed rate with RBS but it has applied a two year fixed  
rate instead.  But, having looked at the contact notes  for the mortgage, I dont agree. As our 
investigator explained, I can see that there was some discussion about a five year fixed  rate. 
But Mr N then changed his mind and decided to take out a two year fixed  rate. So Im 
satisfied that RBS has not made  an error.
Legal action/repossession
Mr N says that RBS isnt abiding by the agreement in place but is instead  taking legal  action. 
And he is unhappy with the letters he had received from RBS saying  it is going  to close his 
account and repossess his house.
I appreciate that Mr N finds the letters distressing.  But, for the reasons Ive set out above, 
Ive not seen any evidence to suggest  that RBS hasnt  adhered  to what has been put in 
place. And, given that no payments have  been received to the account for a considerable 
length of time and Ive not seen  any evidence to suggest that agreement has been reached 
on how Mr N will clear  the arrears, I dont  think it is unfair that RBS is seeking to take action 
to recover the money owed to it. It is reasonable that it should  write to Mr N to keep him 
informed. 
As Im not persuaded that RBS has made an error, I dont think it would be reasonable for 
me to ask it to do anything differently.  But I do expect it to treat Mr N fairly and 
sympathetically and in line with the regulators latest guidance in light of the current 
coronavirus pandemic.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 November  2020.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4888278