K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about National Westminster Bank Plcs handling of their buy to let 
(BTL) mortgage application. They believe errors  and delays caused by National Westminster  
Bank Plc led to them losing the property they intended to buy and they are worse  off 
financially because of this.
background
In March 2018, Mr and Mrs F found a property they wanted to purchase and completed a 
mortgage application with NatWest. They understood the application to be proceeding 
normally until they were  told about an issue with the valuation. The valuation came  back  with 
a lower estimation  of monthly rental income  than expected. This meant NatWest werent 
prepared to lend on the terms in the mortgage  illustration it gave Mr and Mrs F. 
Mr and Mrs F appealed against  the valuation and provided further  information  relating to 
comparable properties  in attempt to get the valuation changed, so they could proceed with 
the purchase. However, after considering the further  information, NatWest didnt think it was 
sufficient to make a difference to the valuation and the appeal failed. . This meant the 
property went back on the market and Mr and Mrs F missed  out on buying it. 
NatWest has agreed that its communication  could have been better during the appeal 
process. It has already  refunded the valuation fee and has offered Mr and Mrs F £200 to 
recognise the poor communication. Mr and Mrs F didnt accept the offer and referred the 
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  He said he didnt think  that NatWest 
made any errors in the valuation process  and it was carried out by a competent  surveyor . 
But he did agree that NatWest could have communicated better with Mr and Mrs F during 
the appeals process.  He thought the offer made  by NatWest  was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree  with the investigators  opinion. They  remain concerned  NatWest  
didnt act correctly  when dealing with their appeal against the valuation and this caused them 
to lose the property. They asked for an ombudsman to review  the case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I think it is worth  explaining  that NatWest isnt accountable for any potential 
shortcomings in the way the surveyor completed the valuation. This property  purchase  was 
for a buy to let mortgage - essentially an investment. So I dont think  NatWests  surveyor  
owed Mr and Mrs F a duty of care  its role is to value  the property for the lender, not the 
investor, to see if its worth the amount the lender is being asked to advance. In any case,  
NatWest appointed a surveyor who was a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered  
Surveyors, so took reasonable steps  to appoint a competent person. I think  NatWest is 
entitled to rely on what the valuation report said when making lending decisions. 
It isnt in dispute that NatWest could have kept Mr and Mrs F better  informed during the 
application and appeal process. What  I need  to decide is whether it made any errors  that 
ultimately caused Mr and Mrs F to lose the property and suffer a financial loss. 
Ref: DRN47350232Ive reviewed the contact  notes from NatWest and on balance  Im satisfied that the 
comparable properties  Mr and Mrs F supplied, as part of their appeal, were passed  on to the 
underwriters. The notes say these properties werent accepted  as they were  not actual  rental 
values but rather  advertised values. The notes  also say, for the valuation  to be challenged 
evidence was needed of properties that had actually  been let in the last six months. Mr and 
Mrs F say that some of the properties they provided had been let. They  say the estate agent 
told them  this. Ive looked at the documents and it isnt clear to me, which  properties  had 
been let and if they were, whether the agreed  rental  income was the same as the advertised 
price or something different. So I think NatWest  considered the appeal fairly and reached a 
reasonable decision to discount  the information  and not pass it onto the surveyors for 
reconsideration. It follows that I find that NatWest has acted reasonably when making its 
lending decision.  
I understand Mr and Mrs Fs point that clearer information about  the appeals  process  would 
have been helpful. However, Im not persuaded this wouldve made a difference to whether 
they lost the property or not. The balance of evidence doesnt  support that clearer 
information wouldve  led to a change in the valuation.  Ultimately, I think  NatWest  is entitled 
to reply on the valuation  completed to make a lending decision. While it did allow for an 
appeal and provide some support, I dont  think NatWest,  having discounted the information  
for valid reasons,  had to do anything more to assist Mr and Mrs F in getting  the valuation  
adjusted. It was for them to provide evidence that would support their view that the valuation  
was incorrect. 
I do think NatWest should  make a payment to Mr and Mrs F to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience they have suffered as a result of its handling of their mortgage application. I 
think the offer of £200 is fair and reasonable  alongside the refund of the valuation fee it 
has already provided.  I think  NatWests  handling  of the situation did make  the situation  more 
stressful for Mr and Mrs F. The uncertainty around whether they would lose the property 
wasnt helped by delays  in updating  them but Ive also taken  into account that NatWest isnt 
responsible for the surveyors findings.  I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs F but based  on 
the information Ive seen,  I think  this is a fair outcome to their complaint.  
my final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already made  an offer to pay £200 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that National Westminster  Bank  
Plc should pay Mr and Mrs F £200 for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its handling 
of their mortgage application.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019.
Daniel Little
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4735023