K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a credit card account that started in 1997. 
Lloyds couldnt  confirm how or exactly  when  PPI was sold to Mrs B. But it mustve been 
added to her account either when Mrs B took out her credit card or some  time after.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagrees with our adjudicators  view.  
She mainly says the PPI was added to her account without her knowledge or consent  and 
she didn't need  it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The original  paperwork from the sale is no longer  available. And it wouldnt be reasonable to 
rely on Mrs B being able to remember everything as it happened so long ago. So I cant 
know exactly what the bank mightve said to Mrs B when she took out PPI. 
Lloyds has provided  an example  of a credit card application. But I dont know  if Mrs B 
wouldve filled in a form like this when  she took out the PPI  because  it isnt clear exactly 
how or when this happened. So Im not relying  on this.
I have to look at all the available information  and decide what I think  is most likely. 
Based on what this service knows about  the way Lloyds  sold PPI around  this time I think  its 
likely that Mrs B wouldve  been asked if she wanted  PPI with her credit card  either  when 
she took out her card or sometime  after this, once her card was up and running. And it looks  
to me as if Mrs B couldve benefitted  from having PPI if shed needed to claim. So, on 
balance, I think its more  likely that Mrs B decided she wanted to have  the benefits the policy 
offered - and Lloyds  added PPI to her account  at her request. 
Lloyds said in fairness to Mrs B it would treat this as an advised  sale.  This means it not only 
had to give her important policy information in a clear way. It also had to take reasonable 
steps to make sure the cover it recommended was suitable for Mrs B. 
Ref: DRN45592322It doesnt look as if PPI was unsuitable  for Mrs B based on what  Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time. Mrs B was eligible for the policy.  She had some  sick pay 
entitlement through work   she mentioned shed have got 6 months full sick pay followed by 
6 months half pay from her employer. But the policy wouldve paid more than her minimum 
credit card repayments for up to 12 months per claim in the event  of accident or sickness   
on top of any work benefits. As Mrs B mightve  also had some additional costs if she was too 
unwell to go back to work  or disabled, I think this couldve been  a useful benefit at a difficult 
time. 
And as well as this, the policy  wouldve  also protected Mrs Bs credit card repayments if she 
lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
Having PPI is more  dependable than relying on other people  to help out in the event of 
money problems. And the additional income  Mrs B mentioned was paid to her for other 
purposes  not for paying her credit card bills. 
Looking at all the information Mrs B has provided  about her circumstances at the time, I think  
PPI was suitable for her.  
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if that applied  to Mrs B. 
So I dont  think that having more information  about the policy  exclusions and limitations 
wouldve put Mrs B off taking out PPI.
Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what  the policy  would cost,  or what 
it might  pay out if Mrs B made a claim. But Mrs B chose to take out the policy  so it looks 
like she wanted this type of cover. Ive seen  nothing to suggest it wasn't affordable for her 
when she took it out. Mrs B couldve cancelled the policy  at any time if her circumstances 
changed or she no longer wanted  to pay for it. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think its likely that Mrs B wouldve made a different 
decision if better information had been provided.  On balance, I think shed still have  taken 
out the policy. This means I dont think that Mrs B lost out as a result of anything  that Lloyds 
did wrong. So it doesnt need  to do anything to put things  right.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4559232