K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc unnecessarily delayed dealing  with a CHAPS 
payment, and provided poor service  when he tried to find out what  was happening.  
background
In September  2018 Mr R switched his current account from Santander to HSBC as he was 
moving abroad. He used the current account switching service (CASS) to switch his account.  
In January 2019 Santander received a CHAPS payment  for a sum in excess  of £80,000 
resulting from the sale of Mr Rs house.  Mr R expected this to be re-directed to his HSBC 
account as part of the CASS guarantee, but on contacting HSBC a few days  later on 21 
January the money hadnt been credited to his account. He then says he made daily calls to 
Santander who denied  having received the money.  He says he was kept on hold for a very 
long time,  made to feel that he was a criminal  and that staff were generally very unhelpful.  
On 25 January he received an online message from Santander saying that it had found  his 
money and returned  it to his solicitor.
Mr R complained to Santander  whose first response  was to confirm that although CHAPS 
payments were covered by CASS, the bank was required  to adhere to legal and regulatory 
checks in processing  payments, which may require it to carry out additional checks.  It 
apologised for any delays this had caused but didnt  believe  it had done anything wrong.
Mr R didnt accept this explanation and so Santander carried out a further  investigation. This 
time the bank said that contrary to its first response, CHAPS  payments  werent  automatically  
re-directed as part of the switching process.  And with regard to the subsequent delay in 
returning the money to Mr Rs solicitor, Santander repeated  its earlier statement about the 
need to undertake legal and regulatory  checks. In recognition of giving Mr R contradictory 
information, the bank said it had arranged  for a cheque  for £40 to be sent to his home 
address.
Mr R considered this sum to be derisory as it didnt even cover  the cost of his phone  calls 
from abroad. He therefore brought his complaint to us.
In summary  our investigator considered that although Santander had been entitled to hold 
Mr Rs CHAPS payment whilst it carried out security checks, Mr R had been without his 
money for some two weeks and the banks service to him during this time hadnt been  as 
good as it should have  been. 
Santander accepted our investigators view and increased its offer of compensation to a total 
of £200. It also agreed to pay an additional  £188.17  in recognition  of the interest Mr R had 
foregone on his money during the two week delay calculated at our usual rate of 8% simple.
Mr R remained  unhappy with this increased  offer saying that it inadequately reflected the 
stress he had been through  during the two weeks his money couldnt be found, the time he 
had spent pursuing the matter and Santanders failure  to deal with the payment as it should  
have done.
Mr R therefore asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN44863792my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under CASS, payments  made to an old account  should be automatically  re-directed by the 
receiving bank to the new account. This guarantee remains in place for 13 months following 
the switch. Mr R therefore reasonably expected that the CHAPS payment to Santander 
would speedily be re-directed to his new bank  account. He was quite understandably  very 
concerned when this didnt  happen  and Santander appeared to have  no record  of having 
received his money.
However, and notwithstanding CASS, Santanders terms and conditions  applying to CHAPS  
state that 
Santander UK in line with all other banks, is required to adhere  to legal and regulatory 
requirements in order  to process all payments which may require us to carry out additional 
checks. We recognise the inconvenience this delay may cause, and will try to conclude  
these checks as soon  as we can. Unfortunately we are unable  to provide an exact timescale  
for when  the payment will be processed.  
And unfortunately for Mr R it was the banks security concerns about the CHAPS payment 
that resulted in it stopping the re-direction  whilst  it carried out further  checks. It was entitled  
to take this action  as part of the legal and regulatory  requirements in place to prevent fraud 
and money laundering. And given  that it was suspicious about  the payment it was perhaps 
unsurprising that it would  provide only limited information to Mr R on the phone until it was 
satisfied that the payment was legitimate. 
But that said, in my view Santander didnt provide a good  enough  service  to Mr R whilst it 
was undertaking  its security checks,  and these  took longer than I would reasonably  have 
expected. And I can understand the stress and concern caused to Mr R for two weeks when 
it appeared that his money had gone astray. 
In recognition of this Santander has now agreed  to pay Mr R a total of £200 compensation 
as well as interest on his money at a rate of 8% for the two weeks  it was being  held in limbo. 
In total Santander has therefore  agreed to pay Mr R £388.17. In my judgment  this is fair and 
reasonable recompense given what happened here.  
Ref: DRN44863793my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr R a total 
of £388.17. The bank should deduct from this amount any sum already paid to Mr R as part 
of his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4486379