K820x#14complaint
Mrs Q complains Admiral  Insurance  (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) has declined  a claim she 
made on her home insurance policy.
background
In October  2018, Mrs Qs house was burgled and some of her familys belongings were 
stolen. Shes  said she and her children  had left the house on the morning of the burglary. It 
was her daughter  who discovered their house  has been ransacked  when she returned home 
in the early afternoon.  After reporting the matter to the police, she made a claim on her home 
insurance policy. Admiral sent out a loss adjuster on two occasions  and there were delays in 
obtaining the police report and validating the claim. 
Whilst its investigations were ongoing, Admiral wrote  to Mrs Q and told her it would settle her 
claim on a proof of purchase basis. But it subsequently declined  to cover the claim and 
explained Mrs Q hadnt complied with the extra condition  (endorsement)  applicable to her 
policy. It said there was no evidence to confirm Mrs Q placed  all the security devices fitted  to 
her home into operation  at the time of the theft. Unhappy  with this, Mrs Q made a complaint. 
Admiral paid £200 in compensation for mistakenly telling  her it would cover the claim and for 
the length of time it took to conclude its investigations. But it refused to pay her claim. 
Mrs Q referred  the matter to our service. One of our investigators looked into it and 
concluded Admiral  hadnt sufficiently demonstrated why it believed  the endorsement  hadnt  
been complied  with. Admiral disagreed and explained it was for Mrs Q to prove  she had 
complied with the endorsement in order to present a valid claim. And based on everything 
shed told Admiral, it wasnt  satisfied  shed done  this. It believed the property had been likely 
left unlocked/unsecured. Our investigator reconsidered Mrs Qs complaint  and overturned  
his original findings. He concluded  it wasnt unreasonable  to say that the only way the 
burglar could have  gained entry was through a door or window that was left unlocked.  This 
was in violation of the endorsement  and so Admiral applied the terms correctly  in declining  
Mrs Qs claim.
Mrs Q disagreed with the investigators findings and asked  for an ombudsman  to review her 
complaint. So it has been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I know  it will come 
as a disappointment  to Mrs Q, Im not upholding her complaint  Ill explain why.
I would firstly like to assure Mrs Q and Admiral that although Ive only summarised the 
background and arguments above,  Ive considered everything Ive been provided with in its 
entirety.
What Im considering here is whether Admiral has acted in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and whether it has dealt with the claim  fairly.
Ref: DRN44345362The starting point  is the agreement  between  Mrs Q and Admiral   that is, the policys  terms 
and conditions. Mrs Qs policy provides cover for loss or damage to contents in her home 
caused as a result of theft or attempted theft and vandalism  or malicious  acts.  But like most  
insurance policies,  it doesnt cover  all eventualities.  The exclusions are listed in the policy 
document. Mrs Qs policy schedule also shows that security endorsements apply to her 
policy. It says:
Under Section 2 (Contents) there is no cover under Item 8 (Theft or attempted theft) 
unless: 
[]
b) Whenever your home is left unattended, all the security devices fitted to your 
home are put into operation. You must  also remove all keys from locks  and place  
them out of sight.
So in order for the claim to be covered,  Mrs Q would need to show she had complied with 
the endorsement.
Ive carefully considered  the available information. The police report says the method of 
entry is unknown. Thinking about  house  keys, I can see Mrs Q had initially said that one of 
her sons  had lost his set of house  keys a few weeks before the burglary, but hadnt realised. 
She advised the key had no identifying features that could  link it to their home. 
Subsequently, Mrs Q told Admiral the key had simply been misplaced as it had been found  
in a drawer under her sons bed. So three  out of the four sets of keys were accounted for 
when the burglary took place. And from what Mrs Q has said its unlikely the fourth  set, 
which was misplaced but later found inside the house, was used to gain entry.  I havent seen 
anything in the reports, or the photographs from the time of the inspection to be able to 
conclude that force or violence were used  to enter the house. 
Taking all of this into account,  I think the only way the burglar could have gained entry into 
the house is if the property wasnt secured (locked)  at the time. As Mrs Qs policy  doesnt  
provide cover for theft if all the security devices fitted in her home arent  put into operation,  
Im satisfied Admiral hasnt acted unfairly  in declining her claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4434536