K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about how Legal & General Insurance  Limited  (L&G) handled a claim 
he wanted to make under the legal  expenses element of his home insurance policy.
For the sake of clarity when I refer to L&G I am referring to both the underwriter and any 
agents appointed to represent it. 
background
Mr S has a home  insurance  policy with L&G that provides him with cover  for legal expenses 
claims. In August last year Mr S contacted L&G to start a claim to try to stop his neighbour 
from building  a wall adjacent to his property. Mr S argued the wall would impede his view,  
might cause damage to his property and decrease the overall value of his home. 
When Mr S called L&G he was told he could start a claim as he had the relevant cover under 
his policy. He was told he needed to pay £50 excess for the process  to begin. Mr S duly paid 
this amount and he was told that solicitors had been appointed to act for him. During the first 
week of September  the solicitors contacted Mr S and told him they would review his claim 
and contact him within 10 days to let him know whether or not it was one they would be able 
to take forward on his behalf. 
 
However Mr S didnt receive a response  within  this time frame and it took almost a month for 
the solicitors to respond to Mr Ss claim submission. When  they did respond, in early  
October, they told Mr S that he wasnt covered  under his policy after all and he wouldnt be 
able to proceed with the claim.  By this stage  the construction of the wall in dispute had been 
completed. 
Mr S complained to L&G in December that he had been told his claim would be accepted, 
paid the excess  charge  of £50 and then told, a month later, that his claim wasnt going to be 
accepted. 
L&G responded to Mr Ss complaint in January this year and apologised for how his claim 
had been handled. It confirmed that there had been  a misunderstanding about what  it was 
he wanted to claim  against.  Upon review  it could confirm Mr S would be able to progress his 
claim for consideration  by its solicitors. It explained  that it would be necessary for its 
solicitors to establish whether or not the claim had a 51% prospect of success  before 
confirming whether or not it would be something  they could help him with. L&G told Mr S that 
the claim had been returned to its solicitors for urgent review and offered him £150 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  the error had caused  him. 
Mr S didnt accept L&Gs  response to his complaint. He wanted to know why the delays in 
September had happened  and why he was given  incorrect information about  whether or not 
he could bring  a claim after he had already been charged £50 excess.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ss complaint. She explained that we are unable  to 
consider what caused the delays as that happened when Mr Ss claim was with L&Gs 
solicitors and thus fall outside of our jurisdictional  remit. She said that in regards to the 
excess that was charged to Mr S, it wasnt unusual for underwriters to ask consumers to pay 
an excess at the start of a claim and so she didnt  think L&G had made  an error in this 
regard. She also felt the offer of £150  compensation was reasonable as L&G had since 
Ref: DRN46836292arranged for Mr Ss claim to be progressed. Because of this she didnt uphold  the complaint 
and didnt ask L&G to do anymore in relation to it. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators response  and asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint, and so it has been  passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has complained about the delays that were caused during his attempted claim. I would 
like to clarify that I am unable to consider these for the same  reasons as were outlined  by 
our investigator. The delays happened  when the claim went to L&Gs solicitors and as a 
result are not covered under this services jurisdiction. If Mr S wants  this aspect of his 
complaint to be considered he needs  to bring  it to the solicitors.
Mr S has also told us that since he received L&Gs response in January his claim has not 
been progressed  as he was told it would be. As that is something that happened after the 
initial problem with the claim occurred L&G are legally entitled to investigate the matter in the 
first instance. It is my understanding  that Mr S has raised this with L&G.  If, when he receives  
its final response on the matter, Mr S is still unhappy, he can bring the complaint to us and 
we will consider it for him then.
Therefore this decision will only look at why Mr S was told his claim would be covered and it 
was being progressed, and whether or not L&G were entitled to charge  him the £50 excess  
fee upfront  when  he contacted it in August.  
Looking at the policys terms and conditions I can see that it states it will provide cover for
An event which causes  or could cause physical  damage to your home  or any nuisance or 
trespass which affects or will affect  your owning or living in your home
The person  Mr S spoke  to initially categorised  his claim as nuisance  and so rightfully said 
that it was covered under his policy and began processing the claim for him. At this point 
Mr S was told the £50 excess fee was payable and his claim was sent to the solicitors to 
consider. This was the correct thing to do and I cant say that Mr S was given any incorrect 
information at this point or that the underwriter wasnt entitled to charge him the excess  at 
the start of the process. 
Mr S was told the claim was going to be sent to legal experts to consider the likelihood of 
success and L&G has provided  us with evidence to show  that is what  it asked the solicitors 
to do. It seems it was the solicitors that later re-categorised the claim and told Mr S directly  
he wouldnt  be able to claim  under his policy. 
L&G contracts out all legal expenses claims to third party legal agents and solicitors as its 
staff dont have  the requisite legal knowledge  to progress these sorts of claims directly.  L&G 
also depends upon the expertise and advice  it receives back  from its solicitors  in regards to 
claims. If L&G was aware of delays then Id expect  it to take action to progress  the claim. But 
I cant see that L&G were aware  of the issue until Mr S contacted it in December to complain  
about what had happened. At that point L&G requested the claim be progressed  as a matter  
of urgency once  the error had been  discovered.  
Ref: DRN46836293As such I think  that L&G did all it could do in order to try to rectify the problems Mr S 
experienced between August 2018  and January 2019. And while  I appreciate that Mr S 
doesnt feel £150 is a fair settlement given the consequences of the error, i.e. that the wall 
has since been built and his view has been affected, I dont think L&G are directly  
responsible for the error. And so I cant ask L&G to compensate Mr S for it. And it seems to 
me that L&G did try to get the claim back on track  once it realised what  had happened.  
Therefore I think that the offer of £150 is reasonable given the scope of control L&G had 
over this specific aspect of Mr Ss complaint. And because I think its reasonable I wont  be 
asking L&G to do any more at this time. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr S and I hope he understands why I have 
reached the outcome I have on those elements of his complaint Ive been able to consider. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr S complaint  against  Legal and General 
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4683629