K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains on behalf of her business,  who Ill refer to as T. Shes  unhappy that The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  didnt properly assess whether the tariff for Ts business 
banking account  was the right one.
background
T had a business banking  account with RBS that was offered as free for the first two years.  
Following this, the account changed to a tariff that cost £25 per month. This tariff remained 
until the account closed.
Ms G recently complained about  this. She said RBS didnt do anything to check  whether the 
tariff and the account benefits  that come with it were right for her. Ms G says she feels  
misled and let down and wasnt given options for an alternative type of account. She asked 
RBS to refund her the fees she paid for this account. 
RBS replied saying  the type of tariff the account changed to was Ms Gs choice and that it 
wouldnt normally contact customers to discuss the options that were available. RBS 
explained that the tariff Ms Gs account  was on was the most  cost effective for her.
Ms G remained unhappy  and asked this service  to look in to her complaint. One of our 
investigators didnt  agree  that RBS had acted unfairly. Ms G disagreed  and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint for similar reasons as the investigator. I know Ms G will be disappointed  so Ill 
explain why.
RBS says it wrote to Ms G around  the time her free banking  period ended and provided her 
with information  to review  to decide which tariff shed  like to go ahead with. Ive seen a copy 
of the information RBS says it sent Ms G. The different tariff options  are set out separately,  
with summary information explaining  which type of business each  tariff may be best for. 
There are also details  on how Ms G could have contacted  RBS if she needed help or more  
information. 
So I think its likely that Ms G was given clear information about the options that were 
available to her. And it seems she made the decision herself to go ahead with the tariff that 
cost £25 per month.  
I dont think its likely  that RBS misled Ms G either. The only information Ive seen about 
what happened at the time seems to show that RBS merely  presented  Ms G with the options 
available. I havent  seen enough  to conclude that RBS did anything wrong in going  ahead 
with the tariff that Ms G seems to have chosen.
I havent looked at Ms Gs circumstances at the time, although I do understand that she may 
have been experiencing  some financial difficulties. But I havent seen enough to fairly say 
that RBS offered her a tariff that wasnt appropriate for her. It seems more likely  that RBS left 
Ref: DRN47644862it with Ms G to decide which tariff to go for, so it didnt need to help her make that choice or 
determine which tariff was right for her.
Overall, I dont  think RBS treated T or Ms G unfairly  and I wont be asking  it do anything 
differently. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4764486