complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Nationwide Building Society wouldnt let them port 
their mortgage when they bought a new house.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out a short  term repayment mortgage with a ten year fixed  interest  rate 
and low loan to value ratio with Nationwide in 2015. They  were  looking to move house in 
early 2018.  They wanted to port their mortgage  but Nationwide didnt agree to this 
because the construction of the new property fell outside its lending criteria. Mr and Mrs T 
had to pay Nationwide an early repayment charge (ERC) and take out a mortgage with a 
different company.
Mr and Mrs T feel Nationwide  acted  unfairly by refusing to let them  port the mortgage and 
complained to this service. They want Nationwide to pay back the ERC and compensate 
them for their mortgage broker and surveyors fees. I recently issued a provisional decision, 
an extract of which follows:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone buys a new property, any existing mortgage has to be redeemed and a 
new mortgage taken  out for the new property. Porting allows  a person to transfer a fixed 
interest rate on the existing mortgage  to the new mortgage and avoid paying an ERC. But 
the lender will only provide  the new mortgage if its lending criteria are met.
Nationwides explained its lending criteria  are based  on many factors including  future 
demand, the availability  of mortgage  funding from other lenders, marketability and 
saleability. And it says its policy is in place to protect both its customers  and 
Nationwide itself.
Mr and Mrs T have  pointed out they were able to get a mortgage with a large  bank. But I 
cant interfere with Nationwides policy  which  may be different to those of some  other  
lenders. I have  to look at whether Nationwide  applied its lending  criteria correctly. If it did, 
I then need to think about whether it applied those criteria fairly in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage offer in 2015 made clear theyd have to pay an ERC if they 
redeemed their mortgage early and that a redemption charge may be payable.  And the 
offer set out that if Mr and Mrs T moved house,  they could keep their mortgage  if 
Nationwide was able to offer them a new loan, but there was no guarantee a future 
mortgage application would be accepted.
In common  with other lenders, Nationwides lending  terms include the types of property its 
prepared to lend on. Theres  no dispute  that the property Mr and Mrs T wanted to buy was 
a timber-framed house built in around  1965.  The survey Mr and Mrs T got before they went 
ahead with the purchase confirms this.
Nationwides relevant lending terms say timber-framed properties built between 1960 and
Ref: DRN444851121969 can be treated  as either:
 unacceptable security  unless the property  is already in mortgage to Nationwide 
and meets other requirements; or
 acceptable security, subject to valuer recommendations.
So I think Nationwide had discretion about whether or not to lend Mr and Mrs T the money 
to buy the property.
Theres no evidence the property Mr and Mrs T wanted to buy was already in mortgage to 
Nationwide. So, under the lending criteria, I think Nationwide could simply treat the 
property as unacceptable security. Alternatively,  it couldve  appointed  a valuer and made  a 
decision about lending  based on the valuers recommendations.
I havent seen a formal  application by Mr and Mrs T for a new mortgage with 
Nationwide. They asked  about porting in January 2018 and knew by early February that 
Nationwide wasnt prepared to lend on the property they wanted  to buy. Theres nothing 
to suggest Mr and Mrs T were under any pressure to move quickly.  So they had the 
chance to look for other houses Nationwide wouldve been prepared to lend on before 
deciding to buy the property, knowing  theyd  have to pay the ERC and a redemption  fee 
if they did.
Mr and Mrs T complain  a Nationwide valuer  didnt inspect  the new house which might have 
influenced its decision about lending. Nationwide says its valuer wouldve considered the 
future demand, marketability and saleability of the house. It says it would normally expect 
a traditionally built property of the type and style Mr and Mrs T were  buying to sell quickly.  
But enquiries Nationwide has carried  out about  the marketing of Mr and Mrs Ts new house 
show:
 the property  was marketed at £330,000 between April 2016 and August 
2016 attracting  5 viewings and 1 offer at £299,000  which the vendor 
rejected
 it was marketed by a different estate agent until March 2018 at £330,000 before 
it was eventually sold in March  2018  to Mr and Mrs T at £250,000
 there were 52 viewings and 30 offers
 according to the agent, offers kept falling through due to lenders refusing to lend 
on the property  because of its construction
The property clearly  took a long time to sell. When it was eventually  sold, it was at a much  
lower value than its asking price. And the propertys  construction was the significant  factor 
in this. Even if Nationwide had asked  its valuer to inspect the property, I dont think  it would 
have led to a recommendation that Nationwide should lend Mr and Mrs T the money. So I 
dont think Nationwides  decision wouldve been different if an inspection had taken place.
Mr and Mrs T argue  there  was no risk to Nationwide in letting them  port their existing 
mortgage given  the low loan to value ratio. Even  though the risk to Nationwide was lower  
than it wouldve been if Mr and Mrs T were borrowing more, there was still a risk.
 
Although Mr and Mrs Ts interest rate was fixed for ten years,  the term was for longer. Its 
possible that an increase in interest  rates wouldve made the mortgage  unaffordable for 
Mr and Mrs T in the future. Nationwides  enquiries  suggest if Nationwide had needed to 
Ref: DRN44485113sell the property to recover  its lending, its likely to have taken longer and cost Nationwide  
more than wouldve  been the case for a traditionally built property. I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for Nationwide  to have  taken this into account in deciding whether  to lend on 
timber-framed properties generally and the house Mr and Mrs T wanted  to buy in 
particular.
Nationwide wouldve incurred costs in processing  an application, if Mr and Mrs T had made 
one. Given the risk Ive mentioned, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Nationwide  to 
have exercised its discretion not to offer Mr and Mrs T a mortgage had they applied for 
one. So I think  Nationwide treated Mr and Mrs T fairly when they told them, before they 
went ahead  with the purchase, it wouldnt lend on the new property.
Mr and Mrs T have  also argued that Nationwide  should provide details of other timber 
framed properties its lent on so they can see if theyve been unfairly treated in 
comparison. Nationwide say they dont  keep data about the types of property they lend on 
so its not possible  to assess this. And I dont think its relevant to whether Mr and Mrs T 
have been treated unfairly in their individual circumstances.
Bearing all of the above in mind I dont think Nationwide have  treated Mr and Mrs T 
unfairly so I dont  intend to uphold  their complaint.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
developments
Mr and Mrs T have  raised a number of issues in response to my provisional  decision. And 
they and Nationwide have gone back to the selling  agents for more  information about the 
marketing of the property which theyve sent to me. Ive taken all of this into account in 
reaching my final decision.
Mr and Mrs T have  made the following points:
They still think its unfair  they had to pay an ERC.
Theyre unhappy data isnt available about  the types of properties Nationwide have 
lent on. 
The original estate  agent told them it had no records relating to the property.
The second estate  agent told them there were around 9 not 30 offers,  some  from the 
same buyers, at increased  amounts. The asking price of the property  reduced  over 
time as the seller  wanted to move  to another house.  The agents wouldnt  disclose  
reasons why offers were  withdrawn.
The property was overpriced because it needed modernising  and Mr and Mrs T have 
spent a considerable amount doing  that. 
The propertys part of a small group  of houses  in the same locality  which are 
considered quite exclusive and are more expensive than others in the area.
Ref: DRN44485114They easily obtained a mortgage  on the property without a survey. Their  own survey  
didnt show up any major issues and the property  was considered value for money.  
The second agents explained its not unusual for properties in the area marketed at 
around £300,000 to take time to sell. Mr and Mrs Ts own house, which wasnt  timber  
framed but was in a similar price bracket, took over two years to sell.
They could easily afford the house  so they dont  think affordability is a relevant issue.  
Nationwides been told by the second  estate agent  offers between  £275,000 and £300,000 
were received - some were declined because  they were too low and others  fell through  
because of the propertys construction.  
Mr Ts provided  some exchanges he had on social media with someone  who was having  
difficulty in getting  a mortgage on a timber-framed  property from several different lenders in 
around 2016.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision  why I thought  it was fair for Nationwide to charge 
Mr and Mrs T an ERC. I havent seen any evidence  that changes  my mind.
Ive no reason to doubt Nationwide cant provide data about  the types of property  its lent on. 
In any event, for the reasons  I explained  in my provisional decision, I dont think such data is 
relevant to deciding  if Nationwides  lending  decision  was fair or not in the individual 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Theres conflicting evidence about  the number of offers made on the property and why sales 
fell through before Mr and Mrs T bought the property. There may have been more limited  
interest than Nationwide were originally  told. Its clear though that the sale price of the 
property was significantly lower than the original  asking price. Taking everything into 
account, I think its likely that the sale price  and the length of time the property took to sell 
was due to a number of factors, including  that the owner was keen to move, the property 
needed updating as well as its timber-frame construction. So, whilst it may not have been the 
only reason, I still think the construction was a significant factor affecting the length of time 
the property took to sell as well as the amount it sold for. 
As Ive noted, Nationwides explained its lending decisions are based on a number of issues, 
including future  demand, availability of funding, marketability  and saleability. And I said that 
its policy not to lend on timber-framed  properties built around the same  time as the property 
gave Nationwide  discretion about  lending.
Taking into account, amongst other things,
1.properties in the propertys price  bracket  generally were taking a long time to sell;
2.the propertys  construction was hampering its sale;  and
3.Nationwides lending  policy isnt unique  in the market and other  lenders are unwilling 
to lend on certain timber-framed properties
Ref: DRN44485115on balance, I still think its unlikely that even if a valuer had been appointed, it wouldve led to 
a recommendation  to Nationwide to lend Mr and Mrs T the money to buy the property. And I 
still think it was reasonable for Nationwide to exercise its discretion not to lend on the 
property in line with its lending policy in relation to timber-framed properties. 
Even though  Mr and Mrs Y say they could easily afford the mortgage they wanted, lending is 
never risk free for the reasons I mentioned in my provisional decision. I think Nationwide 
wouldve had reasonable concerns about  the ease with which it could recover its borrowing if 
it needed to had it considered an application from Mr and Mrs T. A lender will always 
consider the property as well as the borrowers in deciding whether to lend.
For the reasons  also explained in my provisional  decision I think Nationwide  treated Mr and 
Mrs T fairly, making  it clear to them at the time of the enquiry that it wouldnt lend on the 
property. 
So, bearing all the circumstances  in mind, I dont uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4448511