K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Novaloans Ltd lent to him irresponsibly  when it approved his loan in 
December 2017.
background
Novaloans approved a £150  loan on 7 December 2017 to be repaid  over three instalments 
of around £71 or £72 each. Novaloans has told us that Mr G paid the first instalment on 
29 December 2017 and then a lump  sum to repay  it early on 23 January 2018. 
Novaloans has explained that it relied on the information Mr G gave it when he applied, and 
it carried out credit checks.  In its final response  letter to Mr G it listed  all the information  it 
had gathered from that credit check.  
Mr G says that he had a lot of outstanding  debt including  other  short term loans. He said:   
I feel that the firm should not of lent to me based  on my credit profile, other  outstanding debt 
obligations and affordability.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Gs complaint and her view was that Novaloans 
gathered information  which should  have given it cause for concern. She was able to see 
from the information Novaloans provided  to her when she investigated the complaint, that 
Mr G had been making regular and recent use of other short  term loans (STL) from other 
lenders. 
And further that he had outstanding STL commitments of over £2,000 when he applied  for 
the loan with Novaloans. So she felt that Novaloans ought to have recognised  the 
unsustainability of that position  and not approved the loan. She thought  that Novaloans  
should put things right for Mr G.
Mr G was content and had nothing else to add. 
Novaloans did not agree and the succinct summary of its points are:
Mr G had taken about a loan a month for 6 years
outstanding  balances may show up on a report even though they may be historic 
balances
using credit does not necessarily mean  that a customer is reliant on credit  or that it is 
being mismanaged
the credit  report also showed  features which it says indicated  Mr G was managing  his 
credit commitments  adequately
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what I consider  to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about  short-term  lending - including  all of the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
Ref: DRN46322022Novaloans needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Novaloans was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
was the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  
sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time while meeting  other reasonable commitments. And that the 
consumer is able to do this without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.  Novaloans  had a lot of information 
about Mr Gs financial  position and as such was on notice that he was very much in debt. 
Having the information and then not verifying it further means in my view that the 
creditworthiness assessment required under the rules governing  responsible lending was not 
carried out satisfactorily. 
What Mr G has explained was his position,  what Novaloans has discovered through its own 
checks and what I have  seen on Mr Gs personal credit file for the period leading up to 
December 2017  all show the same  that Mr G had a great deal of outstanding debt. Overall 
I do not think that a responsible lender would likely have  lent the £150 to Mr G at that time. 
So I uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Novaloans needs  to put things right by
 
refunding any interest and charges  already paid by Mr G   
apply 8% simple interest  per year to any interest  and charges refunded from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse payment information  about  the loan from Mr Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Novaloans to take off tax from this interest and it must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct that Novaloans  Ltd put things 
right in the way I have  said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Ref: DRN46322023Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4632202