K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Gain Credit  LLC (trading as Lending Stream)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 7 six-month instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Mr M 
between September  2011  and January 2013.  This is a summary of Mr Ms borrowing history 
from Lending Stream. 
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 08/09/2011 16/01/2012 415
2 11/11/2011 20/01/2012 320
3 01/12/2011 20/01/2012 295
4 12/03/2012 07/09/2012 515
5 13/07/2012 13/08/2012 805
6 08/01/2013 - 615
7 27/01/2013 - 205
Our adjudicator said loans  5 onwards shouldnt have been given. Lending Stream accepted 
this conclusion, but Mr M didnt. He said, in summary, from loan 2 onwards Lending  Stream 
lent irresponsibly. So the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr M could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN42087362refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mr M could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Trading guidance on Irresponsible Lending, and 
later the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC)  defines sustainable  as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Lending Stream  has already agreed to 
compensate Mr M for loans 5 to 7 so I will focus here on loans 1 to 4.
I think Lending Stream carried  out proportionate  checks for loans 1 to 3. It asked for details 
of his income and expenditure  and carried out credit checks. And I havent seen anything  in 
the information it gathered that I think should have led it to reach a different lending decision.  
So I dont  think Lending Stream  was wrong  to give Mr M loans 1 to 3.
And whilst I dont think Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks for loan 4, I havent 
seen anything in the available evidence to suggest that it should have made  a different 
lending decision had it done so. So I dont think Lending Stream  was wrong  to give Mr M 
loan 4.
Mr M says he already had a loan outstanding with Lending Stream when he applied for loan 
2, so the combined repayments would have taken  a higher proportion  of his income. But Ive 
considered this, and based on the income and expenditure data he had given Lending 
Stream at the time he applied  for loan 2, the loan would still have seemed affordable.  In fact 
he disclosed  an increase  in income  so there  was no change  in the proportion of income 
needed to meet his total monthly repayments. And given it was still in the early stage of the 
lending relationship I dont think Lending Stream  needed to take further  steps to verify  the 
information Mr M provided.  
Mr M also says he already had other payday loans  when  he applied  for loan 2, and he was 
just borrowing to repay. But as Ive said I dont  think Lending Stream needed to carry out 
fuller financial  checks at this stage. I say this having  thought about the early stage of the 
lending relationship and the value of Mr Ms income, as he disclosed. And based on the 
information Lending Stream had I dont think it did anything wrong. 
I do think by loan 4 however  that Lending  Stream  should have checked what other  short 
term financial commitments  Mr M had. But from the information I have seen it doesnt seem  
Mr M had any other active short term loans when he applied for loan 4. I know he took out a 
Ref: DRN42087363second loan with a different lender on the same  date,  but I wouldnt expect that to have been 
visible had Lending  Stream gathered more  data. Equally, nor would I expect Lending Stream  
to automatically make  a different decision based  on Mr M having one other  short term loan - 
if he had indeed applied  for that one before making the application  for loan 4.  
So I dont  think Lending Stream  was wrong  to give loans 1 to 4 to Mr M. Our adjudicator 
concluded loans  5 to 7 should not have  been given as the repayment for loan 5 combined 
with the repayments Mr M already had to make to Lending Stream  for loan 4 meant  that he 
had to pay a significant proportion of his monthly  income to Lending Stream.  So there was a 
risk that Mr M would need to borrow again  to meet his repayments, making this - and any 
subsequent loans - unsustainable for him. As Lending  Stream  agreed with what  the 
adjudicator said must  happen to put things right for Mr M, I will comment  no further on these 
loans.
This means  Im upholding the complaint about  the loans given from loan 5 onwards, and 
Lending Stream should put things  right.  
putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  5 to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
if it chooses, apply  the refund to any outstanding principal balance on loans 6 and 7 
before paying  any remaining balance (if there  is any) to Mr M**; and
remove any negative information  about loans 5 to 7 from Mr Ms credit  file
If Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debt from loans 6 and 7 to a third party  it should  
buy it back before doing what Ive said above. If this isnt possible, Lending Stream  needs  to 
make sure that Mr M has paid or will pay no more in total than the principal amounts he was 
lent. So Lending Stream  should (in addition to the above if necessary):
arrange to repay  any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of 
interest and charges   including any added by the third party;
refund  any interest and charges  that Mr M has already paid to the third party, plus 
8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
instruct the third party  to remove any information that it may have recorded about the 
loans from Mr Ms credit  file.
If Lending Stream doesnt buy the debt back then it isnt entitled  to make any 
deductions from the amount that it needs  to pay Mr M.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Lending  Stream to take off tax from this interest.  Lending  Stream 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Lending Stream  
intends to apply the refund  to reduce  any outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
**If after taking  the above steps  there is still a principal balance due, I remind  Lending Stream  of its 
obligation to treat Mr M fairly and reasonably in any settlement discussions.
Ref: DRN42087364my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ms complaint. Gain  Credit  LLC 
(trading as Lending Stream) should  pay Mr M compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020. 
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4208736