K822xcomplaint
Mr E has complained about a personal loan TM Advances Limited  provided  to him. He says 
the loan was unaffordable,  so TM Advances shouldnt have given it to him.
background
I sent Mr E and TM Advances a provisional decision on 5 March 2020  to explain why I was 
intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional  decision is set out below:
TM Advances was authorised and regulated  by the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA) 
throughout the period  it lent to Mr E. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms 
are required  to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interest of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  which apply to providers of consumer credit  like TM Advances. 
CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations  in relation to responsible lending. Its clear there is a 
high degree of alignment between the Office  of Fair Trading (OFT) Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance (ILG), first published in March  2010, and the rules set out in CONC 5. As is 
evident from the following extracts, the FCAs CONC rules  specifically note and refer back  to 
sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R (2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, of for such an agreement  which  is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable  period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
Ref: DRN43701632CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G (2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability.
CONC 5.3.1G (1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G (2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G (6) goes  on to say:
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make  repayments on time,  while  meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within  a reasonable period; and
(c)out of income  and savings without having to realise security or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G 
(4) has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14 and 4.15 of ILG and states:
Ref: DRN43701633(b)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
Whilst CONC sets out the regulatory framework that authorised consumer credit providers 
have to adhere to, it represents a minimum standard for firms. And  as an ombudsman  
Im also required to take into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  industry  practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider when deciding what is fair and reasonable are:
did TM Advances complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that 
Mr E would be able to repay in a sustainable  way?
oif not, would those checks have shown that Mr E wouldve been  able to do 
so?
did TM Advances act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other  way?
As Ive explained above, regulations in place when TM Advances lent to Mr E required it to 
carry out a reasonable assessment of whether Mr E could afford to repay his loan in a 
sustainable manner.  This is sometimes referred to as an affordability  check.
The affordability check should have been  borrower-focused  so TM Advances had to think 
about whether  repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse  
consequence for Mr E. In other words,  it wasnt enough for TM Advances  to think  only about 
the likelihood that it would  get its money back  without  considering  the impact of repayment 
on Mr E himself.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of the credit  they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check will more likely  than not look different for different 
loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given amount from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN43701634the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended  
period); and
the greater  the number  of frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal  that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should be for a given  loan application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, or any substantial 
time gaps  between loans. Ive thought  about  all the relevant factors  in this case.
As part of its affordability checks, TM Advances says it verified Mr Es income using a credit 
check. Ive seen a copy  of the results of this check, as well as a copy  of Mr Es credit file and 
bank statements from around the time.
The credit check confirmed Mr Es income was around £4,100 per month and his monthly 
living costs  and mortgage came to around £2,300 per month. This left Mr E with a monthly  
disposable income of around £1,800. The credit  check also showed Mr E was making 
repayments of around £3,300 towards outstanding  balances of nearly £55,000. But as this 
loan was intended to consolidate some of those debts, Mr E would be making payments of 
around £1,400,  plus the payment for this loan of £289. This would leave Mr E with a 
disposable income of around £100  each month.
While its calculation showed Mr E had enough  disposable income to make  the repayments  
for this loan,  TM Advances was required to establish  whether he could sustainably make  the 
repayments, not just whether the repayments  were affordable  based  on a strict  pounds  and 
pence calculation.
And, given  the size of this loan and the period of time it was to be repaid over,  I dont think  it 
was reasonable  for TM Advances  to rely solely on this calculation when working out whether 
Mr E could afford the loan. I think it should have  carried out further checks to make sure the 
amounts it was using  for Mr Es living costs  were correct and that it would  be responsible to 
leave him with this relatively small disposable  income for 45 months.
So Im not satisfied TM Advances carried out reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy  
itself that Mr E would  be able to meet the repayments of this loan in a sustainable way.
I cant say for sure what  more proportionate  checks wouldve shown. But Ive seen copies of 
Mr Es credit  file and bank  statements from around  the time. And, in the absence  of evidence 
to the contrary,  I think its likely these give a good  indication of Mr Es financial 
circumstances.
The bank statements show Mr E was making payments towards around ten different short-
term or high-cost credit providers in the months  before  the loan and was paying  back  an 
average of over £3,100 to them each month. And this was in addition to payments averaging  
around £600 per month to credit  cards or longer-term  loans and his mortgage of around  
Ref: DRN43701635£860. So Mr E was paying  back more  than shown in TM Advances calculation.  The bank 
statements also show Mr E was significantly overdrawn  for almost all of the three months 
before this loan was taken out and was charged for the use of both an arranged and 
unarranged overdraft.
Mr Es credit  file shows he was exceeding  his credit limit on three  credit  cards and was close  
to his limit on three other credit cards  around  the time this loan was taken out. It also shows 
he had taken out at least seven short-term  loans in the three months before this loan.
Being significantly  overdrawn, being  charged for an unarranged overdraft and exceeding  the 
credit limit on credit cards can all be signs that a consumer is having difficulty  managing  their 
finances. And taking  out a significant number of short-term loans, or continuously taking out 
short-term loans over a period of time, can suggest  a consumer is reliant  on borrowing to 
meet other commitments. So I think the credit file and these statements show  Mr E was 
having difficulty managing his finances and may have been relying on borrowing  to meet  his 
existing outgoings.
I think more proportionate checks wouldve shown similar information  to this. So I think more  
proportionate checks wouldve  shown TM Advances that the figures used in its calculation  
werent accurate  and that it was unlikely  Mr E could afford to meet the repayments for this 
loan in a sustainable way and that it wouldnt be responsible to lend to him.
TM Advances has said Mr E had no adverse credit  on his credit file when the loan was 
granted and hadnt missed any payments on his mortgage or unsecured  debts. But I dont 
think this necessarily means it was responsible to lend to him. From Mr Es statements it 
appears he may be reliant on short-term loans to meet his other outgoings and his credit file 
shows the amounts  of the short-term loans  he was taking out were  trending upwards. So, 
while Mr E may not have  missed payments yet, I dont think  this means  his financial situation 
was sustainable.
And while this loan did consolidate some  of his debts, the statements  show Mr Es monthly 
repayments were higher  than those in TM Advances calculations. So the loan wouldnt have 
been affordable  for him, even after the consolidation. And so I still think more  proportionate  
checks wouldve shown TM Advances it wouldnt be responsible to lend to Mr E.
So I think TM Advances  acted irresponsibly in providing Mr E with this loan. And as Mr E 
ended up paying  interest and charges on a loan he shouldnt  have  been  given, I think  he has 
lost out as a result of what TM Advances did wrong.
I said Id consider anything further Mr E and TM Advances sent in.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr E nor TM Advances sent in anything further to be considered,  I still think  the 
conclusions I set out in my provisional decision are correct, and for the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN43701636putting things right
TM Advances shouldnt have given Mr E the loan.  TM Advances should therefore:
a)Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr E towards interest,  fees and 
charges on the loan
b)Calculate 8% simple  interest** on the individual payment made  by Mr E which were 
considered as part of a), calculated from the date Mr E originally made  the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled
Then refund the amounts calculated in a) and b)
c)Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Es credit  file in relation to the loan
* HM Revenue & Customers  requires  TM Advances to deduct tax from this interest. TM Advances  should give 
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Es complaint.
TM Advances Limited should put things  right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4370163