K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complained  that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. delayed  dealing with a claim they made on their travel insurance policy 
which meant Mr R had to spend  more  time abroad than was necessary. 
background
Mr R was visiting family abroad with his wife when he fell ill and had to go into hospital. He 
suffered a pulmonary embolism (a blood  clot in his lungs) and stayed in hospital  for three 
days. 
Mr R made  a claim to Mapfre under his travel insurance policy  while he was still abroad. 
Mapfre said it would need to look at Mr Rs records before it could confirm cover.  It also said 
it would  need  to know that he was fit to fly before making arrangements for him to go back  
home. 
Mr R complained that it was taking  too long for Mapfre to confirm cover. He said his wife had 
to travel back home on her own as they couldnt  afford for both of them  to stay abroad.  He 
said he was staying with his son but the house  wasnt in the city so it was hard to get to 
medical appointments and also it was very hot and there was no air-conditioning.
Mapfre said it couldnt confirm cover until Mr Rs GP provided  details  of his past medical 
history. But it agreed that it shouldnt have insisted  on Mr R being  declared fit to fly by a 
doctor. It said it shouldve only asked for Mr Rs oxygen levels to be checked  instead; in case  
he needed to travel back with supplementary  oxygen on the flight. It said the relevant 
guidelines say patients who suffer a pulmonary embolism  are fit to fly five days after the clot 
disappears. So it agreed this resulted  in Mr R staying abroad longer than he should  have. It 
said there was also a lack of explanation  as to why it was necessary for Mr R to have his 
oxygen and medical records  checked  before it could confirm cover and so it offered him 
£400 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr R didnt agree and complained to us. Our investigator didnt uphold  the complaint as he 
felt Mapfres offer of £400 was fair and reasonable. He said if Mr and Mrs R wanted  to claim 
for Mrs Rs expenses  for missing  their original flight and booking  another one, theyd have to 
contact Mapfre who should consider  the claim in line with the policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree. Mr R said their son had to take four half days  off work and he 
also paid for Mr Rs food and bills. Mr R said his life was torn apart for six weeks due to 
Mapfres incompetence. 
Mr and Mrs R asked for an ombudsmans decision so the complaint was passed to me. 
Before I proceeded  with my decision I asked our investigator to contact Mapfre  to determine 
what had been  paid under  the policy and if this included  Mr and Mrs Rs expenses for 
changing their flights, taxi expenses to hospital  appointments,  hospital  benefit  or other 
expenses. Mapfre  said the case was only dealt  with by its medical assistance team. It said 
its claims team called Mr and Mrs R in October  last year to set up a claim and consider 
additional costs  but they never responded. So it didnt consider anything further. 
Our investigator got in touch with both parties  to say that my decision would be along similar 
lines to his but I would also explain that aside from extra flight costs  Mr and Mrs R may be 
Ref: DRN48497882entitled to claim for hospital benefit,  taxi fares etc. but it would be for them  to make the claim 
to Mapfre to consider.  
Mr and Mrs R repeated  that their son had to take time off work, they had to pay for taxis etc. 
and that Mapfre  hadnt paid them back.  We responded and said that we acknowledge they 
may have  further  claims under the policy but theyd have  to make those claims to Mapfre 
first by completing a claim form and providing the necessary evidence for it to assess  it. Until 
they did, wed only be able to look at the complaint  about the delay. 
Mapfre asked for clarification as to the value of Mr and Mrs Rs potential  curtailment claim. 
Our investigator responded to say that we arent  able to get involved in a potential claim but 
we expect Mapfre to assess  it under the policy terms and to treat Mr and Mrs R fairly and 
reasonably when it does so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided to reach a 
similar outcome  to our investigators. We have  told the parties what the slight difference  will 
be between the view and my decision. Both parties were  given  the opportunity to comment  
and so I think I can go ahead with my final decision. 
brief chronology
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  is mainly about delays.  They have provided a number of emails 
between themselves and Mapfre which enabled me to look at what  happened in detail and in 
chronological order. 
Mr and Mrs R were due to fly back home  on 14 March. Mr R went into hospital on 2 March  
and was discharged on 4 March. He contacted Mapfre  on 8 March and received an 
automated response. The following day he was told to contact the claims  team and on 13 
March he was given  a different number to contact.  I see that Mapfre  sent him forms to 
complete which  included a request for Mr Rs records on the same day. Mapfre said Mr R 
didnt send this until 22 March but from what Ive seen Mr R returned it on 15 March. 
From what  Ive seen Mapfre applied for Mr Rs records on 22 March and the following day it 
told Mr R hed need his oxygen levels checked  and it would also need to check his GP 
records for pre-existing medical conditions before it could confirm cover. 
Mr R complained that he wasnt receiving any support  from Mapfre  and that it kept asking for 
more and more  information. On the same day Mrs R flew back  home. Mr and Mrs R said 
they could no longer  afford for both of them to stay abroad. 
Mr and Mrs Rs son told Mapfre  that the next available appointment for Mr Rs oxygen levels 
check was on 12 April and asked if it could  arrange an earlier  appointment. He said it didnt 
seem to be a simple GP appointment as a follow up appointment was also necessary. 
Mapfre said it was still waiting for Mr Rs UK GP records and without them  it couldnt  confirm 
cover. It also said there was mention of emphysema  in his hospital records so it had to 
investigate whether his current  condition was linked to this. 
Ref: DRN48497883In the meantime Mr R was asking what he was covered  for. Mapfre  said there  was cover for 
accommodation costs,  the cost of amending flights, taxis to and from the airport, but only if 
cover was confirmed. 
On 12 April the GP records were faxed  over to Mapfre as was Mr Rs fit to fly certificate.  It 
confirmed cover on 17 April. It then arranged for Mr R to stay in a hotel between 19 and 26 
April before he flew back  home.  
delays
From what  Ive seen the original records were posted to Mapfre by Mr Rs GP on 29 March.  
They were  sent to a UK address provided by Mapfre, so on balance, I think Mapfre shouldve  
received them within a few days.  Mapfre asked for them to be faxed over on 12 April but its 
not clear why as it shouldve already  had them  by then. But even  if it hadnt,  I think it 
couldve asked for them  to be faxed over sooner.  I think the fact that it didnt, caused 
unnecessary delays. So I think, on balance,  cover couldve been confirmed at the beginning 
of April. 
I note Mapfre also accepts it shouldnt  have insisted on Mr R being deemed  fit to fly by a 
doctor. It said though  it wouldve had to wait for his GP records  it shouldve only insisted on a 
blood gases check. 
I accept that Mapfre had to wait for Mr Rs GP records before it could confirm  cover.  But as I 
said above I think it shouldve been able to do so by the beginning of April rather than the 
middle. And as Mr R returned  his completed  forms on 15 March  I think Mapfre  couldve 
requested his records sooner than 22 March. I think this added  to the unnecessary  delay. 
I appreciate Mr R had to stay abroad longer than he wished and also had to be separated  
from his wife. He says he was staying with his son in a room  without air-conditioning  which 
was very uncomfortable as it was very hot. If things had proceeded as they shouldve he 
couldve had cover sooner and therefore  moved to a hotel sooner. 
Having said this I think Mapfres offer of £400 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint and I expect it to keep its offer open  should  Mr and Mrs R wish to accept it 
now. As I explained above  I think it was responsible for some  delays but I dont think it was 
responsible for all the extra  time Mr R spent abroad. I think Mr R wouldve  had to stay 
abroad until his records  were sent by his GP and Mapfre had had a chance to review them. 
Mapfre said when it reviewed Mr Rs records it noticed that he hadnt  declared that he was 
on medication for high cholesterol and a urinary problem. It said Mr R hadnt declared those 
conditions when he and Mrs R applied for its insurance policy.  It said though the relevant law 
would allow it to settle their claim proportionately because it is likely  that they wouldve had 
to pay a higher  premium,  it decided not to take this course of action, for this policy  year. But 
said those conditions would have to be declared  in future policies. I havent seen what 
questions Mr and Mrs R were asked when  they first took out the policy so I cant say whether 
they misrepresented Mr Rs medical  conditions to Mapfre or not. But as Mapfre  isnt taking 
any action I dont think theres any reason for me to look into this further. And I think 
Mapfres handling of this is fair and reasonable.
additional claims
As we have  told both parties Mr and Mrs R may be entitled to claim for further expenses 
which may not only include their rearranged flight costs but also taxi costs  to and from 
hospital, hospital benefit and even claims for effectively cutting their holiday short. Mapfre  
Ref: DRN48497884said Mr and Mrs R havent yet claimed for these. It is for Mr and Mrs R to make these claims 
and I would expect  Mapfre to consider them once received. If Mr and Mrs R arent happy 
with Mapfres response or its offers they are free to bring their complaint to us. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im not upholding this complaint other than to say that the £400 
offered by Mapfre Asistencia, Compania  Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. to 
Mr and Mrs R is fair and reasonable and addresses  the distress and inconvenience  they 
suffered. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4849788