K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Arval UK Limited overcharged  him for damage to his leased car when 
he returned it.
background
In October  2018 Mr L surrendered a lease  car and it was inspected by an agent collecting it 
on behalf of Arval. He identified damage  which went beyond fair wear and tear as defined  by 
the British Vehicle Rental Leasing Association  (BVRLA) guide. He also couldnt  find the 
service book. Arval sent Mr L an invoice  for £1,025. Mr L said he hadnt been given a service  
book and Arval  removed the charge for this of £100.
He also said the alloy wheel damage was due to a manufacturing defect  and should  be 
covered by the manufacturers warranty. Arval rejected  his complaint and so he brought the 
matter to this service. It was considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it 
be upheld.
He noted the inspection  report  and concluded that the damage  fell outside the BVRLA 
guidelines on fair wear  and tear. With regard  to the alloy wheels he noted Mr L believed  
there was a manufacturing defect and so he shouldnt be charged for any damage. However 
the adjudicator  noted that Mr L hadnt  notified Arval  prior to the collection  of the car. 
He didnt think Arval  had an opportunity to review whether there was a manufacturing defect 
prior to the end of the contract. In addition he said that the BVRLA guide states that if you 
discover what you believe to be a manufacturer's  fault on the vehicle, you should alert the 
leasing company/service provider/ dealership as soon as possible to get the issue  resolved. 
He didnt think Arval  was wrong  to levy the charge  for the alloys. Mr L didnt agree and said 
he thought Arval would have a warranty claim on the wheels
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ls disappointment  at facing a bill after returning his car, but I dont think 
I can uphold his complaint. He entered into an agreement  which  states: Arval shall invoice 
the Hirer for the cost of repairs (whether or not carried out) to a Vehicle returned to ARVAL 
that is subject to damage which,  in accordance with the BVRLA Fair Wear and Tear Guide 
for the Contract Hire Industry, would constitute  unfair wear  and tear and/or for any diminution 
of the value of the Vehicle  resulting  from a previous repair to the Vehicle. All invoices for 
unfair wear and tear charges must be paid by the Hirer in accordance  with Clause 3 of this 
Agreement.
The damage as recorded by the inspector falls outside fair wear  and tear and therefore is 
chargeable on Mr L. I take Mr Ls point that the alloys were damaged because of a 
manufacturing fault though he has provided  no evidence to show that to be the case.  Nor did 
he bring it to Arvals attention so that it could act on the information and if appropriate pursue 
the manufacturer.
In the circumstances I cannot see that Arval has done anything wrong. It rescinded the 
charge for the missing  service book when it was told none  had been  supplied and it applied 
Ref: DRN49390992its standard charges for the various items  of damage. I appreciate Mr L thinks  these charges 
are high, but I cannot say that they were wrongly imposed. As such I am unable to uphold 
his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept  or reject my decision before 
14 July 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4939099