K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr M says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think NatWest made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. I say this because  Ive 
been given a copy of the credit card application  form which was completed  at the time and 
this includes a section  about PPI. In this section there is a box to tick if PPI is required and I 
can see on Mr Ms form that the box has been  ticked. Mr M has signed the form which 
suggests he agreed with everything that had been entered. If Mr M didnt want  to take out the 
PPI he could have  left the section blank.
Ive noted that Mr M has said he was made to believe  the policy was compulsory. I cant see 
anything on the application which suggests that the policy was mandatory or that his 
application wouldnt be accepted without it. And the fact that there is a box to tick shows that 
Mr M had a choice as to whether or not he took out the cover.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have  to make  sure Mr M got the information he needed  to decide for himself  if it 
was right for his.
Its possible the information NatWest gave  Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Mr M has told us he would have received sick pay from his employer, however, it is unclear 
how long he would have  been paid for. However, this policy would have  paid out in addition  
to any sick pay, and potentially for longer than he would have received this employee 
benefit. So I do think this policy  could have been a useful benefit for him.
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But NatWest  has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:  
NatWest got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  NatWest didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN46743132To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mr M any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4674313