K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. Mr T 
says Canada Square Operations Limited (Egg at the time) mis-sold him the policy.
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Canada Square  throughout  this decision rather than Egg.
background
Mr T bought  the policy hes complained about  online  in 2002 when he applied for a credit 
card. 
Having had the complaint rejected by Canada Square, Mr T referred it to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked at it and came to the view that the policy hadnt been mis-sold. But, Mr T 
disagreed with our adjudicator. So the complaint  was passed to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision (PD) in February  2019  a copy  of which is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. I wasnt persuaded Mr Ts policy had been  mis-sold. So I 
didnt think Canada Square owed him any money.  
In response to my PD, neither party has asked me to consider any new information and/or 
arguments. With that being  the case,  Ive decided to go ahead  and issue  my final decision 
now that the deadline in my PD has passed.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into account  in deciding 
Mr Ts case.
And having done all of that, I still dont think the policy was mis-sold  for the same reasons 
Ive already given.  So heres  a summary.
As I said in my PD, I think it was more likely that Mr T agreed to take the policy  knowing he 
had a choice when doing so.
Im satisfied that Canada  Square didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T  which means it didnt  
have to make sure it was right for him. But it did have to make  sure he got the information he 
needed to decide that for himself. 
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been. But based on what  hes told us about his circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  so it 
could have been useful for him if something  went wrong. And there isnt the evidence  to 
persuade me that his need for the policy was tempered to such an extent  that he wouldnt 
have taken it had he been given clearer information.
Ref: DRN45582252my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN45582253copy  of my provisional  decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
And having done that, I dont currently think the policy  was mis-sold.
As Ive said above, the policy was sold over the internet. Canada Square has provided us with screen 
shots of what it says was its online application  process at the time.  Having looked at these and 
thought about what I know about the Egg online sales process,  applicants  were given a clear  choice 
when deciding  to take PPI. And as Mr T was likely to have had the time and space normally  
associated with an online application to make  that choice, I think the fact that he ended up taking a 
policy (which  Canada Squares internal records from his online application indicate  he did) is the likely 
result of his decision to take it as theres nothing persuasive to suggest  otherwise.
So I think its more likely Mr T agreed to take PPI knowing  he didnt have to.
As the policy was sold online, there was little to no involvement  by Canada Square other than the 
provision of the online application form. So Im satisfied that it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T  
which means it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure he got the 
information he needed  to decide that for himself. 
Its possible the information Canada  Square gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But based on what hes told us about his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt look like he 
was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover,  so it could have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. 
Mr T has told us that he was entitled to some sick pay from his employer, had some savings  and 
would have had help from his parents.  So Ive thought about all of this carefully. However,  having  
done that, Im not persuaded  at present   that these are reasons to reach  a different outcome.
I say this because the monthly  repayments  were ultimately Mr Ts responsibility. And the 
circumstances of others can change. So I find it hard to argue that the help of others is a reason to 
uphold the complaint.
As for Mr Ts sick pay and savings, he hasnt been especially consistent throughout  the complaint 
nor, with that being the case,  has he supported what hes told us about  what  was available to him. 
And as theres a reasonably significant difference between what he said he had to begin  with and 
what hes now saying he had, there isnt the evidence  to persuade me that his sick pay and savings  
tempered his need for the policy to such an extent that he wouldnt have taken  it had he been given 
clearer information. After  all, the policy would have gone some way to managing a financial 
commitment at a time of need by not only meeting his repayments but freeing up some of his other 
means to be used elsewhere. 
Overall, therefore, Im not persuaded at the moment that Canada Square  did anything  to cause Mr T a 
financial loss. And so I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN4558225