K821x#15complaint
Mrs W has complained about advice she received from Serenus Consulting  Limited in 2016. 
It advised her to transfer deferred benefits she held in a former  employers  occupational  
pensions scheme  (OPS) and then invest through a Qualifying Recognised Overseas 
Pension Scheme (QROPS).
Mrs W says the advice  was unsuitable.  She is represented in this complaint.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision which  is attached 
below and forms part of this final decision.
I said that I intended to uphold  the complaint and explained why. In summary, I said that I 
dont think the advice to transfer was unsuitable  for Mrs W. But I dont think  the 
recommended investments were suitable  for her. 
Serenus responded and disagreed.  It said that Mrs W could have benefitted from the tax 
advantages of the QROPS despite not being domiciled abroad.  It also said that the 
investments were not unsuitable given her recorded  attitude to risk of medium.
Mrs W also disagreed.  Her representatives  questioned why the TVAS was based  upon the 
costs of a stakeholder scheme and not the actual  costs of the QROPS.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive summarised what  each party has said 
in response to my provisional decision but Ive considered everything.  Having done that, Ive 
decided not to change my provisional conclusions. I uphold this complaint.
Ive noted what  Mrs Ws representatives have said about the TVAS and the costs of the 
QROPS. But as I said, in this case the transfer  value was such that I think Mrs Ws 
objectives could  have been  met without the need  for her to take a high degree of risk. The 
critical yield she needed to achieve  to match the existing benefits was relatively  low. The 
yield required to match her OPS  benefits  at 60 was said to be 0.76 per cent but it was 
actually negative to age 55. I doubt  that the using different costings in the TVAS would have 
made the required yield unachievable.  I remain of the view that Mrs Ws objectives of 
matching the existing  benefits but gaining greater flexibility  were reasonably achievable 
without taking high risks.
Ive noted what  Serenus has said about  the QROPS and Im grateful  for its explanation that 
at the time of the advice  Mrs W could have taken  advantage of tax benefits without being 
domiciled outside  the UK. I also note that this advantage is no longer available  to her.
However, the main  reason recorded in the suitability report  for the use of a QROPS, as 
opposed to a more traditional UK based  vehicle such as a SIPP,  is said to be the tax 
treatment of the fund on death. Its said that the QROPS allows  tax free payment of a lump  
sum for up to 5 years  post death but UK rules  would only allow  this for up to 2 years.  The 
report says that as it may take more than 2 years to sell illiquid investments (such as the 2 
unregulated investments) this is therefore  advantageous.
Ref: DRN42246032I remain of the view that the 2 unregulated investments werent suitable  for Mrs W. 
According to the advice  given, she didnt need to take a high degree of risk to achieve her 
objectives. I think that investing 18 per cent of her pension into unregulated, potentially  
illiquid and non-mainstream investments posed  too high a risk for Mrs W. It wasnt  a risk that 
she needed to take. Even  if Serenus  is right when it says that the investments werent UCIS, 
they were both unregulated and non-mainstream.
So Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Although the transfer itself may not have been 
inappropriate, the investments recommended werent suitable  in my view. The 2 unregulated 
investments were high risk, unregulated and non-mainstream.  As the main  reason for 
recommending the QROPS was said to be the tax treatment of illiquid funds on death, Im 
not satisfied that it was the right option for Mrs W as she should  not have been  advised to 
invest this proportion of her pension funds into these  potentially illiquid investments.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Serenus Consulting  Limited must calculate and pay redress as set out in my provisional  
decision (attached below). This should  include five years worth  of QROPS annual  charges. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42246033extract from provisional decision.
complaint
Mrs W has complained about advice she received  from Serenus  Consulting Limited  in 2016. It 
advised her to transfer deferred benefits she held in a former employers occupational pensions 
scheme (OPS) and then invest through a Qualifying  Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme 
(QROPS).
Mrs W says the advice  was unsuitable. She is represented in this complaint.
background
At the time of the advice Mrs W was aged 50 and married with a young child. She was in employment 
with a salary  of around £26,000. Her husband was in receipt of a pension  but also worked, earning 
around £12,000 per year.
It was recorded that Mrs W wanted to take pension benefits when she was 55. The OPS  was a final 
salary scheme. It allowed  benefits  to be taken at 55 but at a discounted  rate.
Mrs Ws attitude to risk was recorded as medium  or balanced.
Serenus obtained a transfer value  from the OPS.  Initially this was said to be £347,000. A transfer 
value assessment was completed. This stated that the OPS benefits would provide a pension  of 
around £8,000 at 55 with a lump sum of around £52,000.  At 60 the pension would be just over 
£10,000 with a lump  sum of £67,000.
Serenus recommended transfer. But a new transfer  value was obtained  before the transfer 
completed. This was for £459,000. The transfer went ahead.
Serenus recommended that the pension vehicle  should be a QROPS based in Malta.  The 
investments recommended included 2 unregulated collective investment schemes  (UCIS). Around  9 
per cent of the transfer value was invested into each UCIS. The balance, except  for a small amount of 
cash, was invested into a balanced portfolio with a company listed on the London AIM market. 
Mrs W complained to Serenus but it didnt uphold the complaint and so it was referred  to this service. 
It was considered by an adjudicator who said that it should be upheld. He wasnt satisfied that the 
transfer was suitable or in Mrs Ws best interest. He said that transferring away from the guaranteed 
benefits was a high risk strategy. Mrs Ws attitude  to risk was medium. The investment into UCIS 
increased the risk. Mrs W could  have  achieved her aim of taking benefits  at 55 with the OPS. The 
discount to the pension wasnt  punitive.
Serenus didnt agree. It said that its advice had taken into account that Mrs W was a balanced 
risk/medium risk investor. The reduction in OPS benefits at 55 was 22 per cent, which was punitive.  
Serenus requested a decision from an ombudsman. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Some of my conclusions are different  to the adjudicator and so Ive made  this provisional  decision. 
Essentially, I dont think the advice  to transfer was unsuitable for Mrs W. But I dont think the 
recommended investments  were suitable for her. So I currently intend to uphold  the complaint but for 
different reasons to the adjudicator.
Ref: DRN42246034the transfer
It was recorded that Mrs W wanted the chance to take benefits at 55. The OPS allowed  that but only 
with a discount.  She also wanted the chance  to leave  the benefits to her beneficiaries  in the event of 
her death.
The OPS benefits were said to be a pension  of less than £8,000  at 55 and around £10,000 at 60. 
Against this she had the option of a transfer value of £459,000. Transferring  out of a defined benefit  
OPS is almost always a high risk strategy and the starting point is to assume  that it is not usually 
suitable or in the best interest  to do so. But in this case the transfer value was such  that I think Mrs 
Ws objectives could have  been met without  the need  to take a high degree of risk. The critical yield 
she needed  to achieve to match the existing benefits was relatively  low. The yield required to match 
her OPS benefits at 60 was said to be 0.76 per cent (and was actually negative to age 55). So I think  
Mrs Ws objectives  of matching the existing  benefits but gaining greater flexibility were reasonably 
achievable without taking high risks.
So my current  view is that the recommendation  to transfer  out of the OPS  was not unsuitable.
the investment  
However, Im not currently satisfied  that the recommended investment strategy  was suitable for Mrs 
W. Its not at all clear to me why a QROPS  was recommended. QROPS can be a relatively expensive  
pension vehicle and are normally  only suitable for consumers  in very particular  circumstances. The 
main benefits  of a QROPS  are tax advantages  which normally apply  where the pension beneficiary is, 
or intends to be, domiciled  outside the UK. But Ive not seen any suggestion that Mrs W intended to 
emigrate or change her domicile.  
The main reason recorded in the suitability report for the use of a QROPS, as opposed to a more  
traditional UK based vehicle such as a SIPP,  is said to be the tax treatment of the fund on death. Its 
said that the QROPS allows tax free payment of a lump sum for up to 5 years post death  but UK rules  
would only allow this for up to 2 years. The report says that as it may take more  than 2 years to sell 
illiquid investments (such  as the 2 UCIS) this is therefore advantageous.
This seems to be a fairly marginal advantage. And it presupposes that investment  in UCIS or other 
illiquid investments was the right choice for Mrs W. This differential would present no real advantage  
to her if she were investing  in mainstream  investments which were liquid.
And I dont think Mrs W should  have been advised  to invest in UCIS.  Both UCIS were  high risk and 
unregulated investments. They appear to be fairly  speculative and present a higher  degree of risk 
than Mrs W ought to have been advised to take,  even  for this proportion of her portfolio. Her attitude 
to risk was recorded as medium and including these UCIS, alongside  a balanced portfolio would  
increase the overall risk she was taking. I think its also significant that, according to the transfer 
analysis Serenus  relied on, Mrs W didnt need to take any great risks to match the OPS benefits  she 
was giving  up. As Ive said, the returns  necessary ought to have been reasonably achievable without 
taking this level of risk. She certainly didnt need to invest in these UCIS. 
Overall, Im not satisfied that the QROPS was a suitable recommendation. There is no evidence that 
Mrs W could  benefit from the main advantages of a QROPS as she was domiciled in the UK. The 
advantages that may have  been provided were largely only advantageous if she chose to invest  in 
illiquid investments and I dont think she should have been. And, I think the UCIS investments  
presented a higher degree of risk than Mrs W ought to have been advised, or needed,  to take.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs W should be put as closely  as possible into the position  she would probably now 
Ref: DRN42246035be in if she had been given suitable advice. 
I think  Mrs W would have  invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what she would have 
done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below  is fair and reasonable given Mrs W's circumstances 
and objectives when she invested.
 
what should Serenus do?
 
To compensate Mrs W fairly, Serenus must:
Compare the performance  of Mrs W's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If the fair 
value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Serenus should  add interest as set out below.
If there  is a loss, Serenus should pay into Mrs W's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount  paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if 
it would conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If Serenus  is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs W's pension plan, it should  pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore  the compensation should  be reduced  to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mrs W's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected  retirement age. 
For example, if Mrs W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement age, the 
reduction would  equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs W would  have been able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay Mrs W £500  for the disruption to her pension  planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Serenus deducts  income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mrs W how much has been taken off. Serenus should give Mrs W a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
QROPS mixedFTSE UK Private 
Investors  Income 
Total Return 
Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified  
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date. 
Ref: DRN42246036It may be difficult to find the actual value  of the investment. This is complicated where  an investment 
is illiquid (meaning  it could not be readily sold on the open  market) as in this case. So, the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Serenus should take ownership  of 
the illiquid investment  by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount  
should be deducted from the compensation  and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Serenus  is unable to purchase the investment the actual value  should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculation. Serenus may require  that Mrs W provides  an undertaking  to pay Serenus any 
amount she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking  must  allow for any tax 
and charges that would be incurred  on drawing  the receipt  from the pension plan. Serenus will need 
to meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs W wanted  capital growth and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.  
Although it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the index is close 
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable  measure  of comparison  given Mrs W's 
circumstances and risk attitude. 
the QROPS
Mrs W may wish to close the QROPS  and move her funds to a more conventional vehicle such as a 
SIPP. There may be charges associated with closure  and transfer. That is something her 
representatives may wish to investigate and comment on. Its also possible that it may not be possible 
to move the UCIS into a UK based SIPP.  Some SIPP providers may not accept  them. Also,  it may not 
be possible to easily sell the UCIS. So there  is the possibility Mrs W may be trapped in the QROPS. I 
think it would be fair if Serenus paid her five years worth of the QROPS annual charges  to reflect this. 
This would allow sufficient  time to make  the changes.
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  this complaint. My provisional  decision is that Serenus Consulting Limited must  pay 
the amount calculated as set out above. Ill consider any responses received before the date stated 
above before making my final decision. 
..
Ref: DRN4224603