K820x#14complaint
Mr H through his representative Mr M complains that The Society of Lloyds (SOL) acted  
unfairly and unreasonably  when dealing with his claim under a business protection  insurance 
policy. He wants his claim accepted.
background
Mr H had a business  protection  insurance policy with SOL and was a sole trader. Mr H 
carried out work on a property; it was alleged that his actions caused a fire in June 2018, 
resulting in damage to various properties. Mr H made a claim for indemnity under his 
insurance policy, but SOL declined it. It was suggested that the cause of the fire was ignition 
of combustible materials  from Mr Hs naked gas flame, or his use of heat equipment which 
mayve led to drops of bitumen falling into the roof space. The fire brigade thought that the 
fire was caused due to combustible  items being too close to a heat source  and 
carelessness.
Mr H complained to SOL.  It said that Mr H hadnt  complied with the terms and conditions  of 
the policy; in particular, it said hed breached the condition about the precautions  to be taken 
when dealing with heat equipment  Mr H was required to remove combustible  materials at 
least 10 metres away from where  he was undertaking  work,  or if the material couldnt be 
removed, it had to be covered  by non-combustible material.  SOL thought that Mr H 
shouldve used a fire blanket, which was standard practice and had failed to take action to 
protect the roof timbers.
SOL relied upon the contents of an expert report about the fire that said that the fire started  
where the dormer  window  roof met the main roof, which was where Mr H had been working. 
And SOL noted that Mr H hadnt said hed cleared the area surrounding the roof (rather than 
on the roof), carried  out an internal inspection, or taken precautions to stop the spread of 
heat when first asked what had happened or in his statements. SOL also noted that Mr H 
hadnt properly  disclosed the work he did when taking out the policy or complied with other 
conditions, but it didnt think that this made  any real difference.  SOL said that Mr H couldnt 
have complied with the conditions  about  the use of heat equipment or the fire wouldnt have 
started.
Mr H complained to us, and said he did check the area and remove  combustible material. He 
accepted that he was aware of the roof insulation which he thought protected the roof space, 
meaning that he didnt have  to use a mat to protect  that area. He was certain that hed left 
the premises in good order, but it was possible bitumen dropped  into the roof space after 
hed left. Mr H also thought that SOL had been  looking for reasons to decline his claim and 
deliberately hadnt asked  the right questions  to get the full picture.
The investigators view was that SOL wasnt at fault. He noted that the fire brigade  thought  
that the fire was caused by combustible material being too close to the heat source and 
carelessness. The investigator said that it was fair and reasonable for SOL to decline the 
claim having considered  the expert  evidence  available, and to say that the terms and 
conditions of the policy had been breached.  If Mr H wanted to challenge this view,  he would 
need to get an independent expert  to support his position and a legal  opinion  which  said the 
policy didnt exclude  the claim in the circumstances  Mr H would have to pay for this 
(though the costs might  be recoverable if Mr H was found to be right).
Ref: DRN42383602Mr M disagreed. He said that Mr H hadnt  been allowed to see all the expert  evidence  
gathered and the initial questioning of Mr H had been poor. The investigator  said that it was 
for the insured to prove the claim was valid and it was difficult to ignore the views of the fire 
brigade. Mr M wanted an ombudsmans decision and dealt with SOL direct about the 
disclosure of information. He made further  comments after reviewing what  hed received, 
and wondered if Mr H had simply been unlucky. The investigator pointed out that what Mr H 
needed was a supportive independent expert report and it hadnt been provided.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I note that Mr H has provided a previous 
decision of this service to support his position, but we make  decisions on the individual facts  
of each case and the decision relied upon  by Mr H is different, both in terms of the facts and 
the requirements of the insurance  policy involved. And when I refer to SOL, Im also referring 
to its agents.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that SOL has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Mr H accepts that there may well be a link between  the work  he carried  out and the fire. 
Indeed, as has been observed in this case,  hot work  is well-known to be dangerous and is a 
frequent cause  of fires.  Thats why insurers often  set out strict provisions within  the policy 
about how to do such work in order  to be covered, as is the case  with Mr Hs policy.  The 
policy terms say its a condition precedent  that precautions are taken, which  include moving 
any combustible materials at least 10 metres away, or if it cant be removed, covering it with 
non-combustible material. In other words, SOL is only willing  to cover the risk if the 
policyholder has taken these precautions.
The expert report is clear that the fire started  where Mr H carried out his hot work. Another  
expert has apparently  made the same finding according to the solicitors  instructed to pursue 
a claim against Mr H. 
The Insurance Act 2015 says that non-compliance with terms and conditions of the policy in 
these circumstances  cant be used  by an insurer to decline  a claim if Mr H can show his non-
compliance didnt  increase  the risk of the fire happening as it did. This is one reason why the 
non-disclosure of the hot work he did when taking  out the policy and some of the other 
possible breaches dont  matter in SOLs eyes as the failures didnt increase the risk of the 
fire. But what SOL says is that Mr H hasnt shown that his failure to properly protect 
combustible materials using something non-combustible didnt make the fire more likely  or 
worse  its correct in my view to suggest that SOL is saying that the fire couldnt have 
happened if Mr H had taken such steps.
I cant say that its unfair or unreasonable for SOL to rely on independent  expert evidence  or 
the view of the fire brigade to conclude  that Mr Hs hot work was the cause  of the fire. And 
the fire couldnt  have happened  without combustible  material  being involved  thats  basic 
science. SOLs agents interviewed Mr H, examined the site and gathered  evidence   in light 
of this, the conclusion that Mr H did breach a condition  of the policy  is fair and reasonable in 
my view. Mr H accepts  that he didnt use the fire blanket to protect anything.
Ref: DRN42383603And Mr H hasnt provided any independent  expert  evidence to rebut the view that he caused 
the fire by failing to ensure there  was no combustible material nearby or it had been 
protected. In essence, Mr H hasnt shown that his actions didnt increase the risk of the fire 
happening.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision before 
10 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4238360