complaint
Mr B makes a number  of complaints about  American Express  Services Europe Limited 
following a disputed car hire charge.
background
Mr B says he hired a car with a company I will call E and paid for it in advance.  He says he 
was fraudulently charged an extra  £276  and told American Express not to pay it. Mr B says 
the amount was paid against  his instructions  and this led to a number of problems with 
American Express. In summary Mr B says he contacted American  Express  to discuss errors  
in his account statements and was told not to pay his balance whilst there was a dispute 
ongoing. He says he didnt receive  promised call backs or replies to his letters. And his card 
has been cancelled  and hes lost his reward points. Mr B also complains about  his treatment 
by American Expresss debt collection company and says a manual payment he made was 
returned by it.
American Express doesnt accept making a mistake and says it raised a chargeback with E 
but it showed evidence the charge was valid and Mr B had agreed to it. It also says it had 
spoken to Mr B and written to him about  the outstanding balance.  American  Express  says its 
applied late payment fees in line with the account terms and conditions and has sent Mr B 
default notices  as he hasnt made any payments towards the outstanding balance.
Mr B brought  his complaint to us and our investigator upheld  it in part. She thought  American 
Express had raised  a chargeback but reasonably took the view it wouldnt succeed. But she 
thought it couldve  done more to explain the position  to Mr B. The investigator also thought  
American Express couldve  taken  a different view about the late payment fee, when Mr B tried 
to make a manual payment, by not charging  him a late payment fee for that month. But she 
thought it was Mr Bs responsibility to pay the balance when the chargeback  process finished 
regardless of a dispute over the £276. And didnt think there was any evidence he had been 
told not to make any payments.
The investigator recommended  American Express pay £100 compensation and refund a late 
payment fee of £12.
Ref: DRN4670744Mr B doesnt accept  that view and says he should be awarded  about £20,000 compensation 
for whats happened. He says he was told not to make a payment until the matters  were 
resolved and that many  of his letters were not answered. Mr B says if the investigator  thinks  
one of the late payment fees was unfair then it follows  all of them  were.  He also says the 
bullying tactics of American  Express have been  ignored.
I asked American Express for further  information about the returned payment to it. It says it 
agreed to cancel Mr Bs direct debit to allow a reduced payment to be made and cancelled a 
late payment fee. But it says it wasnt responsible for the payment being  returned and it 
wouldnt have returned it. It also says in any event it was Mr Bs responsibility to make a 
payment in the following  months which he hasnt done.
Mr B says the returned payment undermined  his confidence in American Express to make  
further payments.  
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case and said in summary that I thought American 
Express had dealt  fairly with this complaint.
I appreciated Mr B said the investigator  has focused on the chargeback  and ignored many  
other parts  of his complaint. But I said that I agreed with the investigator,  that this complaint 
starts with the disputed car hire payment and everything that follows is linked to that. I 
explained that the chargeback schemes  are voluntary schemes run by the card providers 
and there is no guarantee of success. But we would normally  expect a business  to raise a 
chargeback and also process a disputed transaction  as a chargeback in this sort of 
situation.
I was satisfied thats what happened here, as Mr B described the car hire payment as 
fraudulent and made against his instructions. So American Express raised  a chargeback  but E 
provided evidence  that Mr B had signed  the invoice for the extra car hire charge of £276.  So I 
didnt think American  Express made  a mistake by reasonably concluding there was not a 
reasonable prospect of a successful chargeback in those circumstances. But I agreed  with the 
investigator that American Express could  have explained the chargeback process  in more 
detail to Mr B. I also thought that Mr B will need to raise the issue of the extra charge directly 
with E. And I also made clear that I find that American Express  cant  simply stop a payment 
because Mr B says it should not be made  it has to, as in this case, raise a chargeback.
I looked at the correspondence between the parties  and also listened to the available  call 
recordings. Having  done so I was satisfied Mr B made clear to American Express  that he had 
no intention of paying the disputed car hire charge. I accept that he was told that a payment 
wouldnt be required whilst  the chargeback was being attempted. But I said that I find that 
when that chargeback process was completed, then it was Mr Bs responsibility, under the 
account terms and conditions, to make a payment for the car hire charge. I also thought it 
was Mr Bs responsibility under those terms and conditions to repay the account  balance that 
wasnt related to the main  complaint in any event.
Mr B says he was told by American Express not to make any further payments whilst the 
dispute was ongoing. There isnt a call recording of that conversation but I could see that 
American Express had continued to send Mr B account statements and default  notices.  In 
those circumstances  I thought Mr B ought to have realised he should have maintained
Ref: DRN4670744K820x#14payments. And I said that I cant fairly conclude Mr B was told not make  any payments at all 
and thought it unlikely American Express wouldve told him that.
I looked at Mr Bs records and could see that there appeared to be an attempted payment 
to American Express that was returned.  I said that I thought  it was not clear why it was 
returned or even  if it was American Express that received it. But I thought American 
Express had refunded a late payment fee which fairly dealt with that issue.  I also thought it 
couldve done more  to investigate that problem  but I accepted  it may not have known it had 
been returned. I could  see that Mr B says that had that payment gone through  then he 
wouldve continued to make payments. But I was satisfied Mr B didnt  make  any further 
payments and I thought he couldve made further attempts or considered alternative 
methods of paying American Express if he wished.
As no payments were  made then I was satisfied that in line with the account  terms and 
conditions, American  Express was entitled  to charge a late payment fee of £12. And I 
didnt accept, as Mr B believes, that if Aprils late payment fee was unfair  then it follows  all 
of the others  were also unfair. As I thought a payment was attempted  in April but not in 
the following  months.
I said I hadnt seen  any evidence that American  Express had bullied Mr B and I said Im 
not dealing with any complaint Mr B may have about  its agents. I accepted that American 
Express couldve done more to explain what was happening with the chargeback  and 
couldve investigated the returned payment. But I was also satisfied  overall that American 
Express did raise a chargeback and that it fairly and reasonably decided  that there was no 
reasonable prospect of success  as Mr B had signed  Es invoice. And having  made  that 
decision it correctly asked  Mr B to pay the money  he owed it. As he didnt, I didnt think 
American Express made a mistake  by closing Mr Bs account and sending him a notice of 
default.
I was satisfied American Express was entitled to close Mr Bs account and so I said I cant 
fairly order it to reopen it , return Mr Bs loyalty points or pay him the compensation he 
would like.
I could see that the investigator thought that American Express  should  refund the late 
payment fee for April and pay £100 compensation for its poor communication.  Having 
looked at those issues I saw that American  Express had refunded a late payment fee 
already as a gesture of goodwill  so I couldnt  fairly order it to refund another.  I also thought  
that whilst it couldve been clearer in its communication about the chargeback - that doesnt 
justify compensation  of £100 in the circumstances of this complaint. I also said that Mr B 
would like about £20,000 compensation in any event.
Mr B has replied  to my provisional decision and has disagreed with it. He says in summary 
that hes been treated badly and that American Express didnt investigate  the returned  
payment issue and he wouldve made  his monthly repayments if that had gone through. Mr 
B says American Express should be censured and it overrode his instructions not to pay E 
and that he didnt sign for that extra charge. He says he should  be paid compensation and 
would like his reward points back.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
Ref: DRN46707444reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  that I did in my provisional decision. I appreciate Mr B says American 
Express should be censured but we are not the regulator of banks and building  societies. I 
have explained  why I think American  Express had no other choice but to raise a chargeback  
and I also think Mr B did sign the document agreeing to Es extra charge. I have also 
explained that I think Mr B ought to have continued to make  the required monthly  payments 
regardless of the circumstances of the returned  payment.
I realise Mr B will be disappointed with my decision.  But it brings to an end to what we can 
do to try and sort this complaint out informally. He may wish to take matters  further  using 
other routes he is no doubt  familiar  with.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4670744