K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained about the decision  of UK Insurance Limited (UKI) to decline her 
claim for damage to her car made  under her motor  insurance policy.
Mrs H is represented by her son, Mr H.
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Mr H has said that the car was bought as a category D insurance write off in 2016. Mr H 
says he arranged for the car to be repaired,  and it was then insured under the UKI policy.  
He gifted the car to Mrs H.
In June 2017, Mrs H made the claim for damage, reporting that the car had had various 
parts stripped from it whilst  it was parked overnight. The claim was related to this 
vandalism/theft.
UKI declined  the claim, stating that it did not consider  that it had been shown that the car 
had been repaired  following the 2016  claim  to the extent that Mrs H said that it had. It also 
commented that, given the significant sums of money that were said to have been paid in 
order to repair the 2016 claim damage, it did not accept that the repair funds were withdrawn 
in small amounts and accrued over a period of years before the car was purchased. UKIs 
view was that it was not satisfied  the damage claimed for in the 2017 incident  had happened 
as alleged.
Mrs H brought a complaint to this service.  On her behalf, Mr H explained that she was 
dissatisfied with UKIs  decision to decline  the claim. Mr H also commented  that he was 
unhappy with the way in which  UKI had conducted interviews relating to the claim.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. Her view was that Mrs H hadnt shown that 
the vehicle had been repaired to the extent she had suggested following the 2016 accident, 
and so it was not clear  what the condition of the car was at the time of the 2017  claim. 
The investigator also questioned some of the mileage readings shown on the documents  
provided by Mr H. UKI had stated  that it wanted to carry out a forensic  examination of the 
car, and the investigator considered this was a reasonable  action for it to suggest.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators assessment. He noted that the investigator had not 
mentioned UKIs comments  about  where  the finances had come from to repair  the car 
following the 2016 incident,  and questioned  whether UKI no longer had concerns about this. 
With regard to mileage,  Mr H stated that the figure recorded by the company who carried  out 
an air conditioning recharge was a typing error. He sent a further copy  of this invoice, with a 
handwritten note which said it was from the branch manager showing a revised mileage. 
A handwritten note from a technician at the company was also provided.
Mr H provided  a statement from a company which  stated it had carried out work on the 
clutch and the tyre pressure sensors, to demonstrate that the car was roadworthy at this 
time, and had been repaired  prior to the 2017 claim. He also highlighted that the car had 
been issued with an MOT  certificate in May 2017.
Ref: DRN40800002Mr H said that the car could not now be forensically examined as it had been sold to a 
salvage company.
In later correspondence, Mr H has provided  further evidence.  He has forwarded  images  of 
the damaged  car when it was advertised on the selling website following the 2016 claim. 
He has also provided  images of the car after he says it was repaired,  and details  of the 
rental agreements which  he says financed these repairs. Mr H has provided  a statement 
from a witness who says he was driven  in the repaired car in May 2017,  and that it was in 
good condition  internally with no visible damage. A video of the car being driven has also 
been supplied.
Mr H has supplied additional  evidence regarding  the odometer readings.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In declining  the claim, UKI has stated that it is not satisfied  that the car was repaired 
following the 2016 claim to the extent that Mrs H has said that it was. When UKI inspected  
the car following the June 2017 incident, it noted  damage that it considered was unlikely to 
have been caused by the vandalism/theft that Mrs H had claimed for.
UKIs inspection of the vehicle in June 2017 noted  damage to the oil cooler, and a smashed 
air guide. It considered that this was damage  that existed prior to the June  2017  incident, 
and was likely related to the 2016 claim.
Mr H has provided documentation that he says shows that following its purchase in a 
damaged state  in October 2016,  the car was repaired. He says much of the work  was 
carried out by a particular repairer  (which I shall call repairer A), with Mr H sourcing some  of 
the parts.
Repairer A issued an invoice to Mr H in November  2016. This listed the required repairs, 
including replacing  the oil cooler  and the intercooler. Mr Hs brother stated, in a letter to UKI, 
that due to a combination of outside  factors such as holiday, repairer A started working on 
the vehicle in March 2017.  My understanding is that these  repairs would have been the 
same as shown in the November 2016 invoice.
Mr H has provided witness statements from various  parties to evidence that the car was in a 
roadworthy condition  at the time of the June 2017 claim. I also acknowledge his comments  
about the car passing its MOT in May 2017. However, the inspection  of the car that was 
carried out by UKI in June 2017  does  appear  to show that there was damage to it at that 
time that was unlikely  to have been  caused by vandalism/theft, such  as the damage noted to 
the oil cooler and air guide. I also note that although Mr H has told UKI that funds to repair  
the car came from rental income,  he has not provided evidence that shows  repairer A being 
paid for the work that it detailed in its invoice dated  November  2016.
As such,  in my view UKI acted reasonably when it declined to cover the claim on the basis  
that it had not been shown that the car had been  repaired  following the 2016 claim to the 
extent that Mrs H said that it had, or that the damage claimed for in the 2017 incident  had 
Ref: DRN40800003happened as alleged. In light of these  findings,  I do not consider it necessary for me to 
assess further the issue that has been raised  relating to the mileage readings.
Mr H was unhappy with the way in which the claim investigation was conducted. However, I 
consider that it was reasonable for UKI to arrange for the interviews to take place in order to 
assess the claim. Although UKI has stated that it would like to conduct a forensic 
examination of the car, this option  no longer seems to be available,  as Mr H has said that it 
has now been sold. I appreciate that Mrs H and Mr H are likely to be disappointed with my 
findings, but on balance my current  view is that UKI acted fairly when declining the claim. 
responses to my provisional  decision
UKI confirmed that it had no further submissions to make.
Mr H has stated that UKI has no evidence that the car was not repaired after the 2016  claim, 
and that this is merely  an allegation. He has listed some of the items found  by UKI to be 
damaged in its inspection of the car following the 2017 incident. Mr H says that these had no 
impact on the functionality or roadworthiness of the car.
Mr H has said that he has provided  detailed images of the repair  work  carried  out, a 
statement from a witness with competency in car maintenance,  and an MOT  certificate for 
the car. He has said that repairer A was given  a cash payment on the date of the invoice, 
which allowed it to carry out the works recorded on that invoice, and to source required 
parts. Mr H has reiterated that the funds for the repairs  came from cash sums that he 
collected from tenants as rental payments.
Mr H considers that UKI failed to carry out a thorough forensic  examination of the car whilst 
it was in its possession.  He says that if he had bought the car fully repaired following the 
2016 claim, then the same concerns would not have been raised about the repair works. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr H has commented upon a number of the items 
that UKI found  to be damaged when it inspected the car. He has said that the car was still 
roadworthy, and has highlighted  the MOT certificate  that he has provided.  However,  as I 
explained in my provisional decision,  UKI deemed that the damage  it observed that had 
been caused to items  such as the oil cooler  and air guide was unlikely to have  resulted  from 
vandalism/theft. The invoice  from repairer A states that the oil cooler and intercooler had 
been repaired. Mr H has now stated that these  items  were functional, but my view remains  
that it has not been shown that the car was repaired following the 2016 claim to the extent 
that Mrs H has said that it was, or that the damage  claimed for in the 2017  incident had 
happened as alleged.
I acknowledge Mr Hs comment that cash payments might be made to cover  repairs, and I 
appreciate that he has given  a description about where the funds  to cover car repairs were 
sourced from. However, I still consider that there  is insufficient evidence that details the 
payment of repairer  As invoice.
Ref: DRN40800004Overall, for the reasons  explained in my provisional  decision, my view remains that UKI has 
not acted unreasonably  when declining this claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4080000