K822xcomplaint
Mrs O has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) poorly handled a 
claim she made under her Home Insurance policy.
background 
Mrs O made  a claim for water damage  to her insurer RSA under her home insurance policy 
in July 2018. The damage from the bathroom extended to the kitchen. 
In November 2018 and January 2019 Mrs O complained to RSA.  She said it caused undue  
delay. She said she and her three children were  without  proper cooking facilities throughout 
the summer  and without  hot water. She said her kitchen floor had been water damaged but 
not included in the repairs. She had to sleep on the sofa for several weeks while works were 
carried out to remove  asbestos tiles from her bedroom. Mrs O said rubbish  was left outside  
her home for over two weeks which should have been removed. 
RSA said it had asked  for an electrician  report from Mrs Os representative but hadnt 
received it until 16 August  2018.  It was inconclusive  and so RSA arranged its own electrician 
report. Works began following the second report on 21 August 2018 and were completed on 
28 September 2018. It had agreed  Mrs O could arrange for an emergency electrician to 
carry out temporary repairs when she reported  the incident.
Asbestos tiles were  discovered and while it was recommended they be removed, RSA said 
this was a precautionary measure. RSA assured Mrs O there was no health  risk to her in the 
meantime. 
RSA paid Mrs O a disturbance allowance payment from 21 August 2018 to 28 September 
2018. This was at a rate of £40 a day for Mrs O and her three children totalling £1,520. It 
said that this allowance applies in the event of having either  no proper cooking facilities  or no 
toilet facilities. RSA apologised for the delay  in removing the rubbish and made 
arrangements for that to be dealt with. It said the kitchen floor wasnt  included in the 
approved schedule of works. 
Mrs R remained  unhappy and asked  us to look at her complaint. She felt RSA should have 
arranged alternative  accommodation for her and her family as her home wasnt habitable.
Mrs R said the allowance  payment was an insult and didnt reflect  the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator thought RSA should  have applied its disturbance allowance  from the date of 
the incident on 16 July 2018   as this was the date proper cooking facilities  became  
unavailable. So he thought RSA should  pay Mrs O a further £1,480 in addition to the £1,520 
already paid (but rejected by Mrs O). 
He thought RSA had caused some delay and inconvenience. So he recommended  RSA pay 
Mrs O compensation of £200. 
RSA accepted the investigators findings. Mrs Os representative said Mrs O didnt accept. 
He said we might not have all the facts to support Mrs Os complaint. 
Our investigator asked  Mrs Os representative  to provide any additional  information.  No 
further information has been received. So the case has been passed  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN42392252my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. But I 
think the investigators recommendations to put things right are fair and reasonable in this 
case. 
Theres no doubt that dealing with a claim which involves  water damage in a home will 
inevitably cause some distress and inconvenience. 
Mrs Os representative said the kitchen floor was wet on first inspection. However, neither 
the representative nor RSAs loss adjuster reported evidence of kitchen floor damage in their 
scope of works reports. 
In October  2018 I understand  Mrs O moved  furniture from her bedroom to allow works to be 
done to remove  asbestos tiles. She said she works nights  and so she had to sleep  on her 
sofa for several  weeks.  I understand two of Mrs Os three children were at University away  
from home and her property has three bedrooms.
Mrs Os policy says RSA will provide  alternative accommodation where  the property 
becomes uninhabitable.  While I sympathise with Mrs O, I think its reasonable to expect a 
degree of inconvenience when having to deal with a claim. Fortunately  it isnt something that 
happens every day. I dont think the inconvenience  caused by the damage and repairs to her 
home were such that made it uninhabitable.  
But I think its reasonable for RSA to pay Mrs O a disturbance allowance  from the date of the 
claim to the date the works were  completed  to allow her proper cooking facilities  again.  RSA 
applied this allowance from 21 August  2018.
I think there were times when RSA caused some delay. And it accepts that it should have 
cleared rubbish away from outside Mrs Rs home  sooner.  Mrs R said it had been  there  for 
over two weeks when she made  her complaint. 
Mrs O doesnt feel the compensation of £200  along with a total disturbance allowance  of 
£3,000 is enough. She said she and her family were caused unnecessary hardship for 
weeks. 
I think RSA could have  handled the claim better. But I think  the investigators 
recommendation is in line with similar  awards which we give. So I think its enough to put 
things right. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to do the following:
Pay Mrs O a disturbance allowance of £1,480 from 16 July 2018  to 20 August 
2018. This is in addition to the £1,520 its already paid as an allowance  from 21 
August 2018 to 28 September  2018.
Pay Mrs O £200 compensation for the delay  it caused. 
Ref: DRN42392253Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mrs O accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs O how much its taken 
off. It should  also give Mrs O a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4239225