K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited  (SDFC) has treated her 
unfairly in relation to her shopping catalogue  account. 
background
Mrs M opened  a shopping  catalogue account  with SDFC in January 2017  with a credit  limit 
of £750. 
In July 2017 she ordered goods on Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL)  terms which  allowed her a 
12-month interest free credit period. She had to pay off the full cash  price  of these goods 
within the 12-month period, if she wanted  to avoid the deferred  BNPL  interest being added  to 
her account.  
In September  2017 Mrs M set up a Variable  Direct Debit  for her account with SDFC. She 
says that she thought  that this Direct Debit instruction would enable SDFC to take payments 
for her account. 
But SDFC says that Direct Debits on its customers accounts were not designed to collect 
payments for goods purchased on BNLP terms, and that customers were  made  aware that 
separate payments had to be made for their BNPL goods. As the outstanding balance  on 
Mrs Ms account was in relation to items purchased within the BNPL period,  the statements 
were not at that time requesting any minimum payment, so Mrs Ms Direct  Debit  did not 
collect payments from her bank account towards the balance  of her BNPL  goods as she had 
planned. 
The 12-month BNLP period came to an end in July 2018. As Mrs M had not paid off the cash  
price for the goods shed purchased, this, plus the deferred associated interest, was added  
to Mrs Ms running account  balance.  At that point the Direct Debit became activated and it 
began to collect the minimum payments due. 
Mrs M then arranged  in February 2019 for her bank to request all the minimum payments 
that had been made  via the Direct  Debit to be returned. Shes  told us this was because she 
didnt know what the payments  were for and she thought the goods had already been  paid 
for. SDFC  says that as all payments made towards  the order  have  been  returned to Mrs M, 
the full price of her goods is still outstanding along with the deferred BNPL interest  and 
account interest that has been applied. SDFC has told us that this meant that by March  2019 
Mrs Ms account balance was just over £241.00.
Mrs M thinks  she hasnt  been treated fairly  by SDFC and she brought  her complaint  to this 
Service.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mrs Ms complaint.  Based on the evidence shed seen, 
she didn't think that SDFC had acted unfairly  towards Mrs M.
 
Mrs M didnt  agree with this assessment and asked for an Ombudsman to review  the matter.  
So the complaint has been passed  to me to resolve.
Ref: DRN40409612my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering complaints  about  consumer credit and shopping 
catalogue accounts on our website - including the key relevant rules,  guidance,  good  
industry practice and law. And Ive considered  this approach when deciding  Mrs Ms 
complaint.
I understand that Mrs Ms account  was set up to receive on-line statements every 28 days. 
SDFC says it sent a text and an email to alert Mrs M when each  statement  was ready to 
view. From what  Ive seen, the delivery  fee was added to Mrs Ms running account and she 
made payments to clear this. So it seems  likely  that Mrs M was receiving her online 
statements. But it doesnt seem that she made any payments towards  the cash price of her 
goods during the 12-month  BNPL period.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account and the information that Mrs M  
wouldve been provided with when she opened her account. I think  the information given 
about how the BNPL period worked could  have been clearer  at the time.  But Ive reviewed  
Mrs Ms statements which set out her BNPL summary, the balance still owing and that she 
can avoid the interest  on these Buy Now Pay Later item(s) by paying  the balance  by (date).  
Overall, I think its likely that SDFC made  Mrs M aware that she had to pay off the full cash  
price of her goods within the 12-month period, if she wanted  to avoid any interest being 
added to her account. 
SDFC has sent us information on its website which tells customers setting up a Direct  Debit  
that any Buy Now Pay Later payments  will not automatically be taken  by Direct Debit. These 
payments will need  to be made separately.
But I think its likely that Mrs M either hadnt  seen  or fully understood this at the time. I think 
she didnt realise  that in order to pay off the cash price  for the goods  shed purchased  on 
BNLP terms, shed have  to make specific payments towards it and not rely on her Direct 
Debit instruction. 
But even if Mrs M hadnt  fully understood that the Direct Debit instruction wouldnt take 
payments to reduce the BNPL balance,  I think she ought reasonably to checked  that this 
instruction was taking  payments from her bank account, and paying off the balance  on her 
account, including the goods  she purchased  on BNPL terms, as she had intended.  
From what  Ive seen, SDFC did issue statements on Mrs Ms account and as Ive explained, 
these did show the amount  that was due to be paid, the outstanding BNPL balance and the 
due date. SDFC has told us that Mrs M did access her account during 2017 and in 2018. So 
I think its likely that she wouldve been aware of her account statements. But she doesnt 
seem to have queried with SDFC why the Direct Debit shed set up in September  2017 was 
not apparently  paying off the BNLP balance which remained on her account.
 
Taking everything into account,  I think Mrs M was aware that she needed to make 
appropriate payments  towards paying off the goods shed purchased. And I think  she ought  
reasonably to have  queried with SDFC why the Direct Debit  shed set up did not appear  to 
be doing this, as this was what shed  intended.  I am sorry that Mrs M has found  herself  with 
Ref: DRN40409613arrears on her account. But overall  I cannot fairly say that SDFC acted unreasonably or 
unfairly in the way its operated her account.  I dont  think it was unfair to SDFC to apply  the 
deferred BNPL interest to Mrs Ms account  and then collect the payments due on her 
account via the Direct Debit that Mrs M had set up. 
I know Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision  but Id like to reassure her that Ive 
carefully considered  all the information  that both she and SDFC have provided.  Having done 
so, I am not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against Shop 
Direct Finance Company  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2020.
Sharon Parr
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4040961