K820x#14complaint
Mrs T is unhappy  that her claim for wedding service  costs  has been declined  by 
Great Lakes Insurance SE under  her wedding insurance policy.
background
Mrs T arranged to use wedding services through a business (A). Mrs T was getting this 
service without charge  as it had been gifted  to her by a friend. Despite being given the 
impression A would provide the requested services in the end it didnt, it subcontracted the 
work to a third party (B). Unfortunately A didnt pay B and then A went into liquidation. B 
does have the wedding services and can provide  them  to Mrs T but hasnt as B hasnt been 
paid. B has said if Mrs T pays the outstanding amount the service will be provided.
Mrs B made a claim to Great Lakes but it was declined. Great Lakes said as the service  is 
available it could only refund any non-recoverable  amount that Mrs T paid to A. As Mrs T 
hadnt paid for the service Great Lakes said under the policy there  was nothing to refund as 
shed not suffered any financial  loss. As Great Lakes had asked Mrs T to provide information 
to deal with the claim she was also unhappy  with this and brought her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said based  on the policy  terms Great Lakes 
acted reasonably when it declined to deal with the claim. He said the policy wording  stated a 
claim would only cover a service that Mrs T had paid for and didnt receive. Our investigator 
said as the service was free to Mrs T he didnt think Great Lakes needed to pay the claim.  
He followed on by saying  as the service  was still available to Mrs T if she chose to pay B the 
policy still wouldnt provide cover. Mrs T didnt accept this and asked for her complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted that Mrs T was receiving the service for free. Its also accepted that A did sub-
contract the work to B and didnt pay B. A then went into liquidation.
Great Lakes policy wording says it would pay for: Unforeseen expenses  necessarily  
incurred to or refund any non-recoverable amount which you originally contracted  to 
pay. Great Lakes said in their final response that this was why it wouldnt pay the claim. Mrs 
T hadnt  paid out any money to A. It said it could only refund non-recoverable  amounts from 
the original contract  between Mrs T and A.
Mrs T has pointed out that B can provide her the service if she pays  the money  owed by A. 
Great Lakes accept that the service  is still available to Mrs T so to Great Lakes the service  is 
recoverable and therefore, remains outside  the policy wording. Great  Lakes said under the 
policy terms there was no financial loss. I understand how upsetting this must be for Mrs T. 
But I accept that Great Lakes acted in line with the policy wording and dont have to pay for 
the potential costs to B. So I think it is clear that Mrs B wouldve had to pay A for the service 
and then not receive the service for the policy to apply. That isnt that case here and so I 
dont think Great Lakes  need to pay the claim.
Ref: DRN48903442Mrs T is also unhappy about having  to get information requested  at the start of the claim by 
Great Lakes only for it to decline to pay. I accept that must have been  frustrating  for her. 
Great Lakes said that this was quite a unique situation and it wanted  to ensure it reviewed 
the claim before making a decision on whether or not to deal with it. I accept what Great 
Lakes said here, despite  Mrs Ts point  I think it was reasonable  for it to review the claim 
before deciding what action to take.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against Great Lakes  Insurance SE.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4890344