K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold  him a mortgage in 2007. Mr Bs complaint has 
been brought by a representative on his behalf.
background
Mr B met with a mortgage adviser  working  for Lloyds in 2007. Hed recently  separated. Mr B 
was looking to repay his existing  Lloyds  mortgage, and take out a new mortgage to purchase 
a flat on his own.  
Mr B took out an interest only mortgage  for around  £55,000 for 13 years. Mr B says he was 
aware that his mortgage had a 13-year  term, but he was reassured by Lloyds that hed be 
able to extend it each year on an annual basis until he died. His property would then be sold 
to repay  the loan.
In March 2018 Mr B contacted Lloyds having  received a letter about his plans when his 
interest only mortgage expired. He complained about the sale of the mortgage. Mr B said 
hed been 62 when the mortgage was sold, and hed been  vulnerable  having recently gone 
through a divorce. He said he was recommended to take out the interest only mortgage, but 
hed not had a way to repay  the mortgage  in the future.
Lloyds gave its final response to Mr Bs complaint  on 1 August 2018. It didnt uphold the 
complaint, but it did offer Mr B £50 for delays in replying to his complaint.
Mr B disagreed and brought the matter to us. Lloyds gave its consent  for us to look at this 
complaint about  a sale which happened more than six years  ago. Our investigator didnt 
think the complaint  should succeed. She said that Lloyds hadnt given Mr B advice in 2007, 
and that hed chosen to take out an interest only mortgage having been given information 
about the options he had available to him. Our investigator thought that, at the time,  Lloyds 
didnt have to check that Mr B had a repayment  vehicle  in place to repay the loan in full at 
the end of the mortgage term.
Mr B wasnt  happy with our investigators  view. He replied to say:
-he was vulnerable at the time as he was still upset by the breakdown of his marriage. 
Lloyds should  have given him advice to help him explore his options;
-Mr B had signed the mortgage application saying that he planned to repay the 
mortgage with two endowments and a lump  sum from a pension plan, but he didnt 
know what he was signing at the time;
-Lloyds told him that the mortgage  would  end in 13 years, but hed been told hed be 
able to keep it afterwards.
Mr B asked that an ombudsman make  a final decision on his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself in broad 
agreement with our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr B has complained about the sale of a mortgage.  Im conscious  that its now some time 
since the sale in 2007. Mr B has told us what he remembers from the time of the sale. Im 
Ref: DRN45328442grateful to him for the testimony hes provided about what happened and his situation  when  
the loan was taken out. In addition, Ive looked at the documents  provided by Lloyds, 
including the mortgage application which  was completed at the time of the sale. Ive also 
looked at the mortgage  offer and thought about whether it was made sufficiently clear to 
Mr B under what terms the mortgage  was given.
The mortgage application sets out in reasonable detail Mr Bs situation at the time. I note 
that Mr B was 61 was the loan was taken  out and had been medically retired.  The form 
records that Mr B was expecting to receive a pension in retirement at 65 of around £25,000. 
The application says that Mr B was separated, and he was moving to a flat of lesser  value 
and he wanted  a smaller  mortgage to replace his existing Lloyds mortgage. This is all in 
keeping with Mr Bs recollection of his situation at the time.
However, there are other aspects of Mr Bs financial situation at the time that differ  from 
Mr Bs recollection. In section 6.6 of the form, theres a disclosure to be completed if Mr B 
was planning  to pay off his mortgage completely or make lump sum payments to reduce the 
balance within the next two years. The yes box has been ticked  next to this question  on the 
form. Additional information has been  provided, presumably in the advisers handwriting  
saying Mr B Has endowments maturing and also will receive  a lump sum from his pension 
when he reaches 65. 
Im conscious that the application  form containing the above information was signed by Mr B. 
But Mr B has said to us that he was so upset at the time about  separating  from his partner 
that he didnt know what he was signing in 2007.
Where there is a dispute about past events, and its unclear from the evidence  presented  to 
me exactly what happened,  I must  decide what I think most likely  to have happened on the 
balance of probabilities.  I dont  doubt  that this was an extremely  stressful  time for Mr B, and 
a time of considerable uncertainty. It seems  that Mr B had only recently  separated from his 
partner. I think its reasonable to assume  that he may not yet have known exactly  what his 
share of the division  of assets hed have at the point he applied  for his mortgage. 
I think its more likely that, at the time the mortgage was entered  into, Mr Bs finances  were 
up in the air. And Mr B may well have hoped to be able to pay lump sums towards the 
mortgage in the next few years. But plans may have changed  over the years, and Mr B no 
longer had access to the capital to repay lump sums. In any event, from the facts given to 
Lloyds at the time, I think its reasonable that it relied on this information in the application as 
part of its decision to make the mortgage  available to Mr B in 2007. From all the information 
presented to me, Im not persuaded  that the information recorded  on the application form 
wasnt something agreed with Mr B at the time.  
Mr B has queried why Lloyds didnt  give him advice in 2007 when he met with a mortgage  
adviser. It isnt clear from the records why the mortgage was sold without advice. But Im not 
sure that if it had, that would change the outcome  of this complaint.  Mr Bs said that he was 
told about the options available to him. He says it was explained to him how much both a 
capital repayment  and interest only mortgage  would cost him each month. He remembers  
that the advisor also looked at what would be affordable for him each month. Mr B recalls 
that a capital repayment didnt seem affordable. Mr B took out an interest only mortgage, on 
a two-year fixed rate deal,  that meant  his payments were around £250  per month. I note 
Mr Bs current interest payments are lower than this, at around  £130 per month.
Ref: DRN45328443The facts  of this complaint  indicate that Mr B was sold an interest only mortgage by Lloyds 
that meant  he could  purchase the flat that hed wanted to buy in 2007.  Mr Bs managed to 
maintain his interest payments  throughout the term spanning into his retirement.  Mr B hasnt 
said in his complaint  that hes struggled with the payments at any point. In fact, the source of 
Mr Bs dissatisfaction seems to be that the arrangement  cant continue indefinitely  as hed 
been led to believe  would  be possible. For these reasons I dont think that this was clearly an 
inappropriate loan for Mr Bs situation from the outset or that it was irresponsible for Lloyds  
to make the loan available on interest only terms.
I accept that Mr B is frustrated by the fact this loan is soon to expire in 2021.  I also 
appreciate that Mr B is now needing  to shop  around to see what other lifetime mortgages  
he can now access from other  lenders,  and these may well not offer the same value for 
money as his interest only loan with Lloyds. I also believe that Mr B may well have been told 
in the past that hed be able to ask to extend his mortgage in the future and yet he now finds 
Lloyds wont agree to this. But theres  no written evidence of a contractual agreement that 
Lloyds would continue  to roll over the mortgage for the rest of his life in the future, and that 
doesnt seem to have  been the plan presented  to Lloyds  when  the mortgage was applied for.
Having looked  at the information available to me, Im not persuaded that Lloyds mis-sold 
Mr B this mortgage. Bearing  in mind the regulations  available at the time, I think  Lloyds took 
reasonable steps to make  sure Mr B would be able to reply  the loan during the term. I dont 
consider, from the information available to me now, that this mortgage was clearly  
inappropriate for Mr Bs financial situation when it was sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4532844