K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of a car he acquired through  a Conditional Sale Agreement  
with Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance. (SCF) He 
would like to reject the car.
background
Mr G says he took out a three year Conditional  Sale Agreement with SCF on 12 May 2018 
for a three year old car with a mileage of 32,000  miles.
He says in July 2018 he had a problem with the car overheating so took it to a dealership  
that changed the sensors and cooling system. But he says this didnt resolve  the problem of 
the car cutting out and going  into limp mode.  He said since  he has had the car he has also 
hard to replace a tyre, break pads the drivers seat and a seal on the door.
He says he logged  a complaint with SCF in December 2018 as he was continuing to have 
problems with the gearbox over heating. He says at that point he had been  without  the car 
for four months. But did have use of a courtesy  car during this time.
Mr G says unfortunately although  the car was returned to him he experienced the same 
problem again.  He says he advised  SCF of this on 7 January 2019  and at that point said he 
wished to reject the car.
SCF says there was no evidence of an inherent  fault with the car. It had offered to pay for 
the car to be fully stripped  and investigated but Mr G declined  this. This offer was made 
again but again Mr G declined. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She found  that as Mr Gs car was relatively new with 
low mileage that he should have been  able to use the car with no problems for some  time 
but hadnt been able to do so. She spoke to one of the team at the dealership where  Mr G; s 
car was looked at. He advised that a transmission oil heat exchanger  needed to be replaced. 
He felt was likely the problem was present or developing at the point  of sale
She recommended that SCF:-
-End the agreement with nothing further  for Mr G to pay.
-Arrange to collect the car at no further  cost to Mr G.
-Refund Mr G his deposit and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
-Return all the monthly payments to Mr G if he has paid more  than 7.
-Pay a further  £250 for distress and inconvenience.
-Remove any adverse  information from Mr Gs credit  file.
Mr D accepted this view but SCF didnt.
It said the mileage on sale was 23,000 not 32,000 so Mr G had driven approximately  15,000  
miles which showed the car had worked  well.
SCF said that Mr G had a concern shortly after getting the car so at that point the car was 
thoroughly investigated under manufacturer warranty  by a flag ship dealership with incredibly 
accurate diagnostic equipment and fully trained technicians who couldnt  not replicate the 
Ref: DRN46987032problems Mr G had.  It  felt this didnt indicate  there was an inherent problem. And it noted 
that during this time Mr G was kept fully mobile with an alternative car provided  to him.
SCF said it offered to pay for the car to be fully stripped to investigate  further  but Mr G 
declined. 
It felt that a fairer solution was for a full investigation.
Our investigator considered these points and whilst  she still upheld  Mr Gs complaint she 
changed her suggested  redress. 
She accepted Mr G had had more use of the car than she realised. On that basis  she didnt 
think it was reasonable  to ask SCF to refund any of Mr Gs monthly  payments. 
She still felt it was reasonable to allow Mr G to reject  the car on the basis she didnt feel the 
car was durable. She added that the technician she spoke to at an authorised dealership for 
Mr Gs make of car was sure the issue wasnt a minor  one. And was more  likely than not to 
have been present at the point of sale. She accepted  the problem hadnt been  identified for 
12 months but said some delay occurred due to issues  with the data logger which was 
installed to try to capture  the problem.
She recommended SCF:-
-End the agreement with nothing further  for Mr G to pay.
-Arrange to collect the car at no further  cost to Mr G.
-Refund Mr G his deposit and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
-Pay a further  £250 for distress and inconvenience.
-Remove any adverse  information from Mr Gs credit  file.
Mr G accepted this revised  view and the revised redress recommended. SCF didnt.
It referred to the Consumer Rights Act noting  that a consumer  can reject a car if a fault is 
found within the first 30 days  of the contract, but if a fault arises  within  the first six months  
then the business has one opportunity to attempt to repair the fault. It felt there was no 
evidence of a problem at the point of sale. And it hadnt had any opportunity to attempt one 
repair.
It felt a suitable resolution was for SCF to cover the cost to investigate the fault and it was 
found to be present or developing at the point of sale to allow  the business an opportunity  to 
repair it.
It also noted that Mr G raised the problem of the gearbox overheating on 3 December 2018 
but that the car passed its MOT  on 17 December  2018. .
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Gs frustration as he got his car in May 2018  but by July 2018 had 
problems with the gearbox overheating. I dont think there is any dispute that Mr Gs car has 
Ref: DRN46987033been under  investigation  for this  at one point  he was without his car for four months 
although as I understand  it he did have use of a courtesy car during that time.
It must also have added to his frustration that when  a data logger  was fitted to his car in 
January 2019  to pick up on any faults  this didnt transmit back the information  it picked up. 
This took until April 2019 to resolve.
It seems  the problem was finally diagnosed in in April 2019 when the car over heated again. 
Mr G was advised that the transmission oil heat exchanger needed to be replaced. But Mr G 
declined to have  this work done
I can understand Mr Gs frustration. And that he just wants to reject the car. Its unfortunate 
that its taken so long to resolve what needs  doing. But as I understand it ongoing testing 
was initially unable to replicate the fault Mr G had.
SCF has offered to pay for a full inspection and to repair any inherent fault that was likely to 
be present and developing at the point of sale. Thats not unreasonable  given, when 
problems arise within the first six months of having  a vehicle; we normally  say its down to 
the business to prove the problem wasnt present  or developing  at the point  of sale.
Although Mr G didnt raise a problem  with SCF until December  2018   just over six months 
after he had the car there is no dispute  that he logged problems with the gearbox 
overheating from July 2018 so within two months  of having the car. 
I agree  with SCFs point  that where there does seem to be a problem we would normally 
allow one attempt to repair  a problem before allowing rejection.
However I should also say that although  we take into account the relevant law when coming 
to a decision we are not bound by it. We look at what is reasonable in the circumstances of 
each complaint.
In this case Mr G had a problem with the car within two months of having  it. He was without 
any use of his car for four months whilst this was being investigated.  As no fault could be 
identified he then agreed to have a data logger in his case to try to identify the problem. The 
problems with the data logger meant it took longer than it should  to identify the problem. A 
problem has now however been  identified.  
This has been an ongoing issue for Mr G. Its taken from July 2018 to April 2019 to identify 
the problem.   So  I think Mr G has been put to a lot of inconvenience.  I understand he can 
still drive the car but use is limited as the problem is ongoing.
Ive also considered that Mr Gs car was only three years old with a relatively low mileage of 
332,000 when  he got it. So he might reasonably have expected  it not to have  an ongoing 
problem.
And a technician at the dealership indicated to us there was a problem with the gear box 
overheating. And it was likely this was a problem  that was present or developing at the point 
of sale. I accept these comments dont have the same weight as a formal independent 
report. But I think its unlikely that the individual would  have made those comments  to us 
without genuinely  believing that was the case.
Ref: DRN46987034I feel on balance I have  enough evidence to say there has been  an ongoing problem from 
soon after Mr G got the car.
I think Mr G has been  quite co operative  to date having his car investigated for a period of 
four months and then driving  with a data logger for a further period of time. But I dont feel 
its reasonable to expect  him to have  his car further inspected and repair work carried  out  
which may of course not resolve the problem. 
I feel the time taken  to identify the problem,  and the overall inconvenience to Mr G that its 
reasonable to allow  Mr G to reject  the car.
I also think it would be fair to pay Mr G some compensation.  I appreciate he has had use of 
a courtesy car and has been able to drive a reasonable amount of miles in his own car. But I 
think being without  his own car for a continuous period of four months, and the fact its taken 
so long to identify the problem has put Mr G to some  inconvenience. I think  £250 would be 
appropriate.
I dont feel its fair to refund any of Mr Gs monthly payments. He has had use of the car. And 
when he didnt have  use of it he had access to a courtesy car.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Santander Consumer UK Plc trading as Santander  Consumer 
Finance should  
-End the finance  agreement with Mr G showing the agreement as settled on his credit  
file.
-Collect Mr Gs car at no cost to Mr G.
-Refund any deposit Mr G paid and pay 8% simple interest  form the date of payment t 
other date of settlement.
-Pay Mr G £ 250 for the inconvenience.
.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020. 
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4698703