K820x#13complaint
Mr and Mrs C say that Furness Building Society  mis-sold them  three premium payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
This complaint is about three monthly premium PPI policies.  The first two were  taken  out in 
1998 when Mr and Mrs C were arranging two joint mortgages. They provided unemployment 
cover for both Mr and Mrs C. The third was a standalone policy taken out in 2010 providing 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mrs C only.   
Our adjudicator thought that the policies had not been mis-sold and so did not uphold  the 
complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided these  PPI policies werent  mis-sold  and Ill explain why. 
1998 policies
Mr and Mrs C say they were pressurised into taking out PPI because  they believed  that their 
mortgage applications would be declined if they didnt  agree to do so. Their two joint 
mortgages were arranged within days of one another. Furness  Building  Society also 
arranged for both Mr and Mrs C to have 12 months free unemployment  cover. They were 
told that they would be written  to and asked if they wanted the cover to continue  and told 
how much  it would cost. 
Ive seen a copy  of a letter that was sent to them at the end of the free period which  asked if 
they wanted the cover to continue. They were told how much their monthly  payments would 
be if they did. They did not cancel the PPI policies at this point.
I do not think Mr and Mrs C were  put under any pressure to take out the policies. At the time 
the mortgages were  taken  out they were in employment, so they were being provided  with 
free cover. By the time they came to pay anything for the policies the mortgages had been  in 
place for a year. Had they chosen  to cancel the PPI this would not have affected their 
mortgages. So overall I think it was clear  that these policies were  optional and that 
Mr and Mrs C decided to continue with the cover when the free period had ended. 
Furness Building Society didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it didnt have to 
check if the policy was right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs C got the 
information they needed to decide  if it was right for them. 
Mr and Mrs C say that they had sufficient  sick pay from their employers  at the time, so this 
policy wouldnt have been of any use to them. But the policy only covered unemployment at 
Ref: DRN44945452this point, so it would only pay out if either Mr or Mrs C, or both of them,  were  made  
redundant. Upon  a successful claim his policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months and on 
top of any redundancy pay they wouldve been entitled to. And considering Mr and Mrs C 
had other  outstanding debts and outgoings  at the time, I think they wouldve found these 
extra funds helpful.   
 
The cost of the policies was clearly  communicated to Mr and Mrs C before they agreed  to 
continue with them, after the 12 month  free period was up. But its possible some of the 
other information Furness Building  Society  gave Mr and Mrs C about  the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover.
2010 policy
In 2010 Mrs C telephoned Furness Building  Society to get a standalone  quote for accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover for herself  only. She was provided with a quote and a 
letter summarising her demands and needs. She was told in that letter  that Furness Building  
Society was not advising her or making any recommendation about the suitability  of the 
policy for her needs.
Unfortunately due to the time thats  passed, there is no longer a call recording for me to 
listen to. But Furness Building Society has provided  some call scripts which it says 
demonstrates what its sales  representative  wouldve been  required to cover  off in the call. I 
dont know if this script was followed,  but in the absence of a call recording this is the best 
evidence available. Based  on the information  in these scripts I think  its more  likely that not 
that Furness Building Society made  Mrs C aware that she didnt have to take out this policy, 
and she chose to take it out.  
After Mrs C took out the standalone policy both she and Mr C wrote to Furness Building 
Society cancelling the other policies  so I think they were  clear about what they wanted at 
the time.
As Furness Building Society  didnt advise her to take out the policy it didnt have to check it 
was suitable for her (or Mr Cs) needs. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs C got the 
information they needed to decide  if the PPI was right for her. And again I think  itss possible 
that some  of the information wasnt as clear  as it should have been. 
Theres an indication that Mrs C visited a doctor  or received medical  advice or treatment for 
a medical condition in the 12 months preceding the sale.  And having  looked at the available  
policy documents, Ive seen that Mrs C wouldnt have  been able to make a claim on the 
policy for any time off work which was as a result of any medical condition which  existed at 
the time she took out the policy. But Ive also seen that Mrs C was informed that the policy  
may not cover her in the event of a claim for this condition. And Mrs C decided to go ahead 
with the policy with this in mind. I havent  seen  any other evidence  that Mrs C wouldve been  
affected by any of the other exclusions or limits on the policy  and so I dont think better  
information about the PPI wouldve put her off taking out the cover.  
So overall I dont  think any of these policies were  mis-sold. Ive also thought  about  the 
commission Mr and Mrs C paid on their PPI policies   and whether Furness  Building Society  
treated them  unfairly. 
Ref: DRN44945453Furness Building Society has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Cs PPI policies  
was less than half of what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Furness 
Building Society has been working  this out and based on what  weve  seen it looks like its 
right  Mr and Mrs Cs commission  was less than half the cost of the PPI premiums. As 
thats the case, I dont think it needed  to tell them about the commission  so I dont think  
Furness Building Society treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr and 
Mrs C back any of the commission  they paid for their PPI premiums. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4494545