K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms S say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Ms S took out further  borrowing  through  the Halifax in 2007. Alongside it, they took 
out a Total  Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). The PPI part of the policy covered Mr S only 
for accident, sickness and unemployment.  The PPI part of policy cost £50.13 per month and 
covered their mortgage repayments for £843.98 per month, for up to 12 months per 
successful claim. Mr S took out life cover too. But, Im only dealing with the PPI part of the 
policy here.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Ms S disagreed, so their complaint was 
passed to me. They said they didnt ask for PPI or need it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have to base my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other  
words, on what  I consider is most likely  given  the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland hasnt got all the paperwork from the sale.  But this isnt surprising as banks 
often only keep records for six years. Based on the limited information still available,  and 
what we know about Bank  of Scotlands sales processes around this time from dealing  with 
other cases, I dont  have  enough to fairly conclude that Mr and Ms S werent told PPI was 
optional. I think its most  likely Mr and Ms S wouldve completed a TMPP application form 
selecting the elements of the cover they wanted,  after discussion with the bank. I think  it 
more likely that they were  told they didnt have to have  PPI, and chose to take it out. I can 
understand why Mr and Ms S may not remember it that way now, after so much time.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Ms S, so it had to make sure it was 
suitable. Overall, I think the PPI was suitable, based on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. In reaching this decision,  I have taken into consideration Ms Ss 
circumstances too as this was a joint mortgage.  I think it was suitable because:
Mr S was eligible  to take out the policy. 
Mr S said he was entitled to around 3 months worth of sick pay and to redundancy 
pay. The PPI wouldve  paid out on top of Mr Ss work benefits for up to 12 months  
per successful  claim. So, I think the PPI couldve been useful to them, particularly as 
it was safeguarding their home.
Ref: DRN41200132They said they had around 3 months worth of savings.  The PPI wouldve  allowed 
them to use their savings  to meet their other living expenses. So, I cant  see that their 
other resources made the policy inappropriate for them.   
The policy appeared affordable and the monthly premium couldve been  cancelled at 
any time without them  losing out financially.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr and Ms S all the information  they needed before 
they decided to buy PPI. But, as Ive said above,  it appears to have been affordable. I also 
dont know when Bank of Scotland first pointed out the main  things the policy didnt cover.  
But, as Mr S wasnt affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions in the policy, I dont 
think having better information about these things wouldve changed their decision to buy 
PPI.
Ive taken into account everything that Mr and Ms S have said. But, I cant see that this 
policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4120013