K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1987. Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold them  the 
PPI.
This complaint has been brought to us by Mrs B in relation to both herself and the late Mr B. 
In the hope that Mrs B will not mind, and to simplify matters, I will refer to the late Mr B as 
Mr B throughout the decision.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1987.  They  paid a monthly amount for 
the cover. Even though this was a joint mortgage,  only Mr B was covered by the policy  for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. In 1993, when taking a further advance on the 
mortgage, Mr and Mrs B amended the policy to take into account this additional  borrowing.
Mr and Mrs B paid a monthly amount for the cover. If Mr B made a successful claim, 
the policy would have paid out the monthly mortgage repayment  for up to 24 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why they cant remember  this. I say this because 
Ive been given a copy of the mortgage  application  and this includes a section for the PPI. If 
the cover  is required,  the monthly benefit needs  to be completed in the relevant box. I can 
see that the repayment  sum of £100  has been entered on the form. Mr and Mrs B have both 
signed the form which suggests this reflected what they wanted.  A separate application form 
for the PPI has also been provided and I can see that this has been completed  for Mr B only. 
This would appear  to suggest  that there  was a conversation about the cover and they 
decided to take the cover  for Mr B only. If Mr and Mrs B didnt want  the PPI, they could have 
left the section  on the mortgage  application  form blank and not completed the separate  PPI 
form.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr B so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, such  as unusual  
working arrangements or a medical  condition of which he was already aware.
And he seems to have had a need for the cover.  We dont know for certain whether Mr B 
was entitled to sick pay from his employer but Mrs B believes he would have received 
Ref: DRN48647572statutory sick pay only. This policy would pay out the monthly  benefit  for up to 24 months 
which would have been in addition to the sick pay he would receive. As it seems  Mr B would 
have been on a reduced income if he was off work,  and Mr and Mrs B didnt  have any 
savings which they could have relied  upon to make  their repayments if Mr B wasnt  earning, I 
think this policy could  have provided  a useful  benefit to them. And it seems that it was a 
useful benefit  as it appears  Mr B did make successful claims on the policy.
Its possible that not all the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI was as 
clear as it should have  been. But Mr and Mrs B chose to take it out for Mr B only - so it looks 
like they wanted  this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for them  if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put them off taking out the cover.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Halifax  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because:  
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Halifax  should  also pay back to Mr and Mrs B any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
Halifax should pay back to Mr and Mrs B the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Halifax  should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs B 8%* simple interest  on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. The tax can be claimed back if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B, on behalf  of 
herself and the late Mr B, to accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2019.
Ref: DRN48647573Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4864757