K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Legal & General Insurance Limited rejected a claim on his contents
insurance policy, that it had said it would settle.
background
Mr F made a claim on his contents insurance after his house was burgled  and a drill and a 
mobile phone were stolen. He was told by Legal  & General that the claim for the drill had 
been validated,  but more  information would be needed about  the phone.
Mr F provided the phone  number, make and model  of the phone but didn't know  the IMEI 
number and couldn't provide proof of ownership.  He later realised he had given  Legal  &
General the incorrect  model for the phone and corrected it. Legal & General contacted
Mr F's phone network provider to try and find out the IMEI number and asked them to block 
the stolen phone with the number Mr F had provided. Mr F then realised that he had 
mistakenly given them  his wife's phone number and it was her phone that had been blocked.
Mr F was unhappy that his wife's  phone  had been blocked and with how Legal & General 
had handled  his claim in general.  He didn't think it was fair that the claim was not being 
progressed due to the fact he couldn't  provide  proof of ownership or an IMEI number for the 
phone. He complained  to Legal  & General.
Legal & General said that it wasn't  able to continue with the claim for either of the items 
without proof  of ownership. It also said that the phone was blocked  because Mr F provided 
an incorrect phone number, so it hadn't done  anything wrong.
Mr F wasn't  happy with Legal & General's  response. In particular, he didn't think  he should 
have to provide  proof of ownership  for the drill, when he had already been told the claim 
would be settled without  this. He complained to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didn't think Legal & General had done  
anything wrong. She said it was reasonable that it asked for proof of purchase for both 
items, as this was in the policy terms and conditions.  She also said it had blocked the wrong 
phone due to Mr F's own error so weren't to blame.  Mr F accepted  our investigator's  view 
about the claim for the phone. However, he still didn't think  it was fair that the claim for the 
drill had not been  settled.  He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
When the case came to me, I contacted Legal  & General to ask why it had changed its 
position on the claim for the drill, as it hadn't provided an explanation to Mr F. It explained to 
me that as the phone had been the main  part of the claim,  this had been the focus  to begin 
with. However when the complaint was looked  at, it realised it would be consistent to ask for 
proof of ownership for the drill as well as the phone  before validating  the claim.  It said it 
therefore maintained  the position expressed in its final response.
my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision,  I said:
As Mr F has accepted our investigator's position on the claim for the phone, the only thing 
left for me to consider  is whether Legal  & General  acted fairly when handling Mr F's claim for 
the drill.
Ref: DRN47733502Legal & General has now explained  it rejected the claim for the drill as it realised it needed to 
be consistent with the information it requested for both parts  of the claim.  So, as it requested  
proof of ownership for the phone, it should also request the same  for the drill. However,
I don't think this explains why its position  changed  when it sent the final response  letter.  The 
fact Legal & General needed  to be consistent with the claim is something it could have 
foreseen from the start.  I don't think it's reasonable for it to say it has just realised this. If it 
wanted to ensure it requested the same evidence for both, it should have said proof of 
ownership was necessary  for the drill as well as the phone  when the claim was opened.
I can see that it did request proof of ownership  during the claim.  Mr F provided an 
explanation for why he wouldn't  be able to provide this for the drill, and this was accepted. 
So Legal  & General's explanation doesn't clarify why it accepted the claim for the drill without 
proof of ownership to begin with, then changed that position later on. I'm therefore not 
satisfied that Legal  & General have provided  a clear explanation for why it rejected the claim 
for the drill.
I have considered what would have happened if Legal & General had said it needed proof  of 
ownership to settle the claim for the drill from the beginning. I don't think  the outcome of the 
claim would have changed. Mr F has never been  able to provide proof  of ownership for 
either item, the claim would still have been  rejected. However, Legal  & General's approach 
would have been more clear and consistent. This would have meant Mr F wouldn't have 
experienced the frustration of being told the claim would be paid, to then find out this wasn't  
the case. He also would have had a clearer understanding of why his claim was rejected 
from the start. This approach would have felt fairer  and would have been likely to resolve  the 
matter more quickly.
All insurers are subject to rules set out in the Insurance: Code of Business Sourcebook.  The 
part relevant  to this case  says that insurers must "handle claims promptly  and fairly" and 
must not "unreasonably reject a claim". By changing  its position on the claim for the drill, 
without providing  a clear  explanation for doing  this, I don't think  Legal  & General have 
handled the claim fairly. I also don't  think it has provided sufficient  explanation  to show it has 
acted reasonably in rejecting it. Therefore, I don't think it's fair that it has rejected the claim 
for the drill. I am therefore minded to uphold  the complaint and propose that Legal & General 
settle the claim for the drill based  on the specification previously agreed,  without  requiring  
Mr F to provide any further evidence.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Mr F has not responded to my provisional decision.
Legal & General has said that it doesnt  agree that it didnt make  it clear why the claim for 
the drill was rejected. However it has agreed  to honour the claim for the drill at the previously 
agreed value.
 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of Legal & Generals response  to it. 
As Legal & General have agreed with my suggested resolution to Mr Fs complaint, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN47733503I therefore uphold  the complaint and propose  that Legal & General settle the claim for the 
drill based on the specification previously agreed,  without requiring Mr F to provide any 
further evidence.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I uphold Mr F's complaint. I require Legal & General
Insurance Limited to:
settle the claim for the drill based on the specification previously agreed, without 
requiring Mr F to provide any further evidence.
pay interest at 8% simple per year from the date of the loss until the date settlement is 
paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
*lf Legal & General Insurance Limited considers that it's required by HM Revenue  &
Customs to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr F how much it's taken  off. It
should also give Mr F a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4773350