K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that The Car Finance Company  (2007) Limited (TCFC) treated him unfairly 
when payments on his hire purchase  agreement fell into arrears. He wants all outstanding 
payments to be waived.
background
Mr B tells us that he acquired a vehicle in February  2017. He says from an early stage that 
the vehicle experienced  serious  faults including with the clutch  and turbo. And that it was 
taken in for repairs over an extensive period. Mr B says hed been told the payments would 
be put on hold so he didnt think he had to make them whilst the vehicle was unavailable. He 
says that TCFC has now terminated the agreement  and repossessed the vehicle. And hes 
been left with a debt of over £7,000.
TCFC told us that it had paid for various repairs to the vehicle.  It said that Mr B hadnt  been 
told he neednt make payments. And that even after the vehicle had been fully repaired in 
July 2017, hed failed to make any payments since that time. It said notices of sums in 
arrears had been sent as well as a notice of default. But when  Mr B hadnt agreed  to make a 
payment arrangement,  or repay the arrears,  it had terminated the agreement  and 
repossessed the vehicle.  TCFC said it was unclear  at various stages as to how long the 
customer had been without the vehicle.  But that Mr B had stated that by early May 2017 the 
mileage was 87,050,  indicating  it had covered  about  4,000 since supply. It said this 
demonstrated above average  use.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. He said that no 
courtesy vehicle had been provided during the time the vehicle had been in for repairs.  And 
that whilst  the vehicle had now been repossessed,  he said that no allowance had been  
made for the time Mr B had been unable  to use the vehicle. He didnt think this was fair. He 
thought the arrears should be reduced  by the amount of five monthly  payments to reflect  
this.
Neither party agreed with the adjudicators view. Mr B said he thought all the outstanding 
payments should  be waived.  TCFC said it would offer to reduce the arrears by three monthly 
payments (£773.76). As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans 
been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. TCFC supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about  the quality of the vehicle. 
In the few months that the vehicle was in Mr Bs possession  it experienced a number of 
problems. And I accept that this wouldve been a source of inconvenience  to Mr B as for 
various periods  the vehicle wasnt available to him.
Ref: DRN43607462Although its clear the vehicle had more than its share of problems Im unable  to consider 
whether or not it was of satisfactory quality. Although it was raised as an issue by Mr B, 
shortly after he acquired  the vehicle, it seems he agreed to have repairs  completed and used 
the vehicle after it had been  returned  to him after the various repairs. Theres  no plausible 
information to show that the repairs failed.
The vehicle has now been repossessed so I intend to concentrate on the factors which  led to 
this and to determine if Mr B was treated fairly  by TCFC.
In his written view, our adjudicator set out a detailed chronology of the repair  history  of the 
vehicle. I dont propose to repeat it here as both parties have seen it. But I think  its fair to 
say that it wasnt possible  for him to identify every  precise date when the vehicle hadnt been 
available for use by Mr B. 
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Its the responsibility of the consumer to ensure that contractual payments due under a 
finance agreement  are maintained. Im aware Mr B said hed been  told that he wasnt  
required to make payments for those periods when the vehicle  was under repair.  But Ive 
seen no other information  which supports this. I can only infer that he misunderstood this 
requirement. And I note that even after the vehicle had been  fully repaired, on or around 20 
July 2017, that no payments were made thereafter. In those  circumstances I cant  say that 
TCFC acted unfairly in issuing notices of arrears and later a notice of default.
I can see from records of case notes that there were discussions about the possibility of a 
payment arrangement.  But as this was never formally agreed and the arrears remained 
unpaid, TCFC terminated the agreement in November 2017. The notes  indicate  that the 
vehicle was repossessed in December  2017.  Theres a reference  to a 90,000 mileage 
reading at this time. Again,  as no payments had been made since  June  2017,  I cant  say that 
TCFC was wrong to take this action. The vehicle was subsequently sold and a shortfall on 
the agreement  resulted  in the sum of £7,469.28.
Here theres been a period when  the consumer wasnt able to use the vehicle due to faults 
which were present at the point of supply  - and no courtesy vehicle was supplied.  Its fair and 
reasonable to expect  the supplier of the vehicle to make  some allowance  to reflect  this. 
Ive already said its not possible to be sure of precise dates the vehicle was in for repairs.  Or 
what caused any delay  in the vehicle  being  returned  to Mr B after repairs. Notes indicate  that 
Mr B first complained on 10 March 2017. This was about two weeks after supply. The 
vehicle was due to be collected  but this wasnt possible as Mr B had a hospital  appointment. 
Theres a note from 3 April 2017  which records that Mr B had fixed  a turbo pipe himself.  Its 
reasonable to infer the vehicle was probably unavailable for most of this period.
At the end of April theres a note which confirms  that the vehicle had again  been taken in for 
repairs but Mr B said it had been  returned to him without those repairs  having been 
completed. By 17 May theres a further note to say the vehicle had been  repaired. And I infer 
it was available  from this date for Mr B to use.
Ref: DRN43607463On 8 June the vehicle  is once more booked in for repairs. And the notes from this date 
indicate it wasnt until 17 July that repairs were complete. Even then its not clear  if the 
vehicle was immediately  available  to Mr B as theres reference to a road test being required. 
This seems to have  been completed  on 20 July. So its reasonable to infer the vehicle was 
available to Mr B and I can see that hed phoned TCFC on that day.
On 29 September  Mr B again  phoned TCFC  to say that his vehicle access  code had expired. 
It seems  to have been suggested that this was due to Mr B not having made a payment 
arrangement. And this information was confirmed  on 12 October when the call handler 
stated a code  wouldnt be provided unless a payment commitment  was made. As no 
payment arrangement was ever commenced,  I infer the vehicle wasnt  able to be used by Mr 
B until the agreement was terminated  and the vehicle repossessed.
On a balance  of probabilities it seems likely the total period of time when Mr B was unable to 
use the vehicle  was somewhere between three and four months. Although  I accept that the 
vehicle covered more  than average  mileage in those periods when it was able to be used. 
Apart from an award to reflect a period  of non-availability / impaired use Id normally award  
an amount of compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by the vehicle 
having to go in for repairs. Our adjudicator didnt recommend this as a separate  amount. But 
I think it would be fair and reasonable that the overall resolution of this complaint should 
reflect this aspect. And so I think in totality  that the five months payments which he 
recommended should  be taken off the arrears  figure  is fair and reasonable.
In summary,  I find that TCFC acted fairly in terminating the finance agreement  and 
repossessing the vehicle.  But Im upholding the complaint  to the extent that Im requiring it to 
reduce the arrears figure  by the amount of five monthly  payments  (£1,289.60).
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint  in part. 
In full and final settlement  I require The Car Finance Company (2007) Limited to:
1.Reduce the total of arrears owing by Mr B on this agreement  by £1289.60;
2.Arrange for the necessary adjustments to be made to Mr Bs credit  file to show this 
reduced figure.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2021.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4360746