K821x#15complaint
Ms S says Casheuronet  UK LLC trading as QuickQuid irresponsibly lent to her. She says 
she had a low income and had problems making the repayments. 
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be partially upheld. QuickQuid disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion.  The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Ms S complaint should be upheld  in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint  and my provisional findings are attached and form 
part of this final decision. 
QuickQuid, and Ms S, confirmed that they had received my provisional decision. QuickQuid 
didnt agree with my provisional decision.  It said that I hadnt provided enough detail for it to 
be certain that the loan repayments were  unsustainable and that Ms S would struggle to 
repay them. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision Ms S struggled  to repay  loan 1. I think this itself 
demonstrates that she was having  problems managing her money. So I dont  need  to see 
pounds and pence affordability information to say that it was likely Ms S would struggle to 
make the loan repayments going  forward. This is because  she already was struggling to 
make similar loan repayments.  
I thought QuickQuid shouldnt have approved loan 2 because of this. And going  forward the 
pattern of repeat lending itself was harmful to Ms S. So QuickQuid also shouldnt  have 
approved loans 3 to 9. 
I didnt provide income and expenditure amounts because I havent relied on these  to uphold 
the complaint.  So it isnt necessary to do so. And I think Ive reached a fair determination 
without this information. 
QuickQuid hasnt really  raised any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So Ive 
reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. 
putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms S paid on loans 2 to 9;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loan 2 from Ms S credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 3 means  any information  recorded about them is 
adverse. So all entries about  loans 3 to 9 should be removed from Ms S credit  file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Ms S a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN48835542my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Ms S complaint.
Casheuronet UK LLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48835543extract from my provisional  decision
This complaint is about  nine payday loans QuickQuid provided to Ms S between  March  2013 to 
January 2017. Ms S lending history is as follows:
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(days)date ended
1 20/03/2013 £100.00 72 27/09/2013
2 18/11/2013 £100.00 74 30/05/2014
3 13/06/2014 £100.00 77 28/11/2014
4 15/12/2014 £100.00 102 27/03/2015
5 06/04/2015 £100.00 81 26/06/2015
6 27/07/2015 £100.00 95 27/11/2015
7 04/12/2015 £100.00 84 29/04/2016
8 12/06/2016 £150.00 75 28/10/2016
9 12/01/2017 £100.00 78 31/03/2017
All of the loans were due to be repaid  over three periods. Loans 1 and 2 were  extended 3 times.  Loan 
3 was extended twice  and loans 7 and 8 were extended  once. 
Our adjudicator upheld Ms S complaint and thought that loans 4 to 9 shouldnt have been given. 
QuickQuid disagreed and the complaint has been  passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending on our website  and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding  Ms S case. Ive provisionally decided  to uphold Ms S complaint in 
part and have  explained why below.
QuickQuid needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Ms S could repay her loans 
in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things,  such as how much  was being lent, 
the repayment amounts  and Ms S income  and expenditure.  With this in mind, in the early  stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  indicate that a lender should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These would include where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion of their 
income 
the amount, or amounts,  due to be repaid are higher  
there is a larger number  or higher frequency of loans 
the period of time during which a customer and business have a lending relationship is long
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN48835544Bearing all of this in mind,  I think that there are three key questions for me to consider in order to fairly 
and reasonably determine  Ms S complaint.  These questions are:
1.Did QuickQuid, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy 
itself that Ms S would  be able to repay in a sustainable way? 
2.Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern of 
lending increase  Ms S indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful?
3.Did QuickQuid act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other  way?
Ive carefully thought about  all of these questions and what they mean  for Ms S complaint.
did QuickQuid, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy 
itself that Ms S would be able to repay  in a sustainable way? If not, would  those checks have 
shown that Ms S would  have  been  able to do so?
Ive seen a record of the information Mss S provided when she completed her application  for loan 1. 
This showed that the loan repayments were likely  to be affordable.  
I think  it was reasonable,  in this case, for QuickQuid to rely on this information  given the proportion of 
the amount being borrowed in relation  to what  she declared as their monthly  income. 
And I havent seen any further information that shows its likely QuickQuid  was made  aware of any 
financial problems Ms S mightve  been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to investigate 
Ms S circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for QuickQuid to rely on the information  it 
obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments  QuickQuid did before approving  loan 1 
were proportionate. And I think its decision to approve this loan was reasonable.
But Ms S had problems repaying  this loan. It had three repayment periods initially  but she was unable 
to make the final larger repayment three times. Given that this loan was for a relatively modest 
amount I think  this indicates that Ms S had financial  problems. And QuickQuid shouldve realised this.  
So I dont think it was reasonable for QuickQuid to approve loan 2. Especially  as it was almost  
identical to loan 1, and Ms S had struggled to repay this. I think  its worth noting  that she went on to 
have similar repayment  problems with loans  2 and 3 which were also extended a number  of times.  So 
Im upholding  Ms S complaint about loan 2. 
I havent thought about individual,  proportionate affordability checks  for loans 3 to 9 because I dont  
think that it is necessary to do so. Ill explain why this is the case  in the next section.
taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern of 
lending increase Ms S indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise  harmful?
Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of lending.  Ive looked to see if there was a point at which  
QuickQuid should reasonably have seen that further  lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
And so QuickQuid should have  realised that it shouldnt have provided any further lending. Given the 
particular circumstances of Ms S case, I think that this point was reached by loan 3. I say this 
because:
the amounts  Ms S was borrowing were not decreasing  and it was now over a year since the 
start of loan 1. So QuickQuid ought to have  realised  it was more likely than not Ms S was 
having to borrow further to cover  the hole repaying  her previous  loan was leaving in her 
finances. And QuickQuid ought to have realised it was likely her indebtedness was 
unsustainable.
Ref: DRN48835545Ms S wasnt really reducing the amount  she owed QuickQuid. She was in effect paying large 
amounts of interest to service this debt over an extended  period. By the time she took loan 3 
shed had a lending relationship with QuickQuid for over a year and she went on to borrow for 
over four years in total.
Ms S was demonstrating  repayment  difficulties right from the start of the borrowing  as Ive 
outlined above.
I think  that Ms S lost out because QuickQuid continued to approve loans from loan 3 onwards 
because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Ms S indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit  over an extended period of time
the sheer number of loans  (loans and deferrals)  was likely to have had negative implications 
on Ms S ability to access  mainstream  credit and so kept her in the market for these  high-cost 
loans
So Im upholding Ms S complaint about loans  3 to 9 because the overall pattern of lending  increased 
her indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and shes lost out as a result.
did QuickQuid act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other  way?
Ive carefully thought about  everything provided. Having  done  so, Ive not seen anything  here that 
leads me to conclude QuickQuid acted unfairly or unreasonably towards  Ms S in some other way.  
Ref: DRN4883554