K821x#15complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that issues with TSB Bank plcs IT system meant she didnt receive her 
account statements  for a period of time.
background
I issued my provisional decision in December 2018  (copied below).  I explained I had 
carefully considered  all of the available evidence and arguments  from the outset, in order to 
decide what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I had also taken  into account 
relevant regulatory  rules  as well as the law and good industry  practice.
Having done so, I explained  I intended to uphold the complaint for the same reasons set out 
by our Investigators. However, I was minded  to make an additional award to cover  call 
charges likely incurred  by Mrs P when  calling TSB.
Mrs P has accepted my provisional decision.  TSB has not responded and the deadline for 
further submissions has now passed.
my findings
Having reconsidered  the complaint again in its entirety, I have reached the same decision as 
before, and for the same  reasons. It follows  that I uphold this complaint, and instruct TSB to 
put things right as set out below.
my final decision
I instruct TSB Bank plc to pay Mrs P £50 to cover any call costs incurred. In addition,  unless 
it has already done so, TSB should  pay Mrs P £150 to reflect  the trouble and upset she has 
experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Clair Bantin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN45521262copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs P is unhappy  that issues with TSB Bank plcs IT system meant she didnt receive  her account 
statements for a period  of time.
background 
In late April 2018, TSB experienced issues with its IT system. Mrs P has told us that, as a result,  her 
full bank statements werent sent to her for a number of months.  Instead, Mrs P has told us she 
received only mini statements,  which made it difficult for her to keep track  of her finances.
Mrs P has explained that this was particularly inconvenient,  as she relies on family members to do her 
shopping for her, and she uses her bank statements to check what has been  spent and to manage 
her finances.
Mrs P was unable to visit a branch, as she is housebound. However, she has told us she made  a 
number of unsuccessful attempts to call TSB to resolve  the problem.  She has told us that she called  
ten times and was left on hold for up to an hour each time, without ever getting through. Overall, Mrs 
P has explained she found the experience frustrating and stressful, and she was concerned  that the 
stress would have a negative impact on her health. 
Mrs P brought  her complaint  to our service. Our Investigator agreed that Mrs P had suffered  
inconvenience as a result of TSBs failings in this matter and recommended compensation of £150 to 
address all the concerns raised. Mrs P didnt think this sum was enough, so a second Investigator 
took another look at her complaint. 
The second  Investigator  agreed that £150 was the right compensation for TSB to pay Mrs P. TSB 
accepted our Investigators findings, but Mrs P didnt, as she thought  she should get more  
compensation. As such, the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I agree  with our Investigators that Mrs Ps complaint 
should be upheld, but Im minded to increase  the overall compensation award.
Mrs P has told us that she spent a significant amount  of time on hold on the phone  to TSB,  which she 
estimates at somewhere between  ten and twenty hours. She also has told us that her phone bill 
increased as a result  of this, although she hasnt been able to give precise  details of the additional  
cost. She says this is because she has been in hospital for a number of weeks and hasnt been 
dealing with her own paperwork and bills.
Given that Mrs P was unable to access her financial information and, due to her mobility issues, was 
unable to visit the branch  in person, I can see why she mightve felt the need to contact TSB by 
phone. I can also see why she felt it necessary to persist in her attempts to do this, despite the 
difficulties in getting through. I understand many customers at that time did experience problems 
making contact  with TSB by phone, as well as lengthy periods of time on hold.  So I think Mrs P most 
likely did spend significant  time attempting to contact TSB as she has described, and may well have 
incurred additional charges  as a result. To put this right, I intend to ask TSB to pay Mrs P £50 to cover  
any call costs.
Ive also thought  about  the trouble and upset Mrs P has experienced.  I agree that not being sent her 
statements was inconvenient  for Mrs P, and that her unsuccessful attempts to call TSB most  likely 
increased her frustration. However, while I certainly appreciate that Mrs P has found this matter 
stressful, having reviewed all the evidence available,  I agree with our Investigators that £150 is a fair 
Ref: DRN45521263and reasonable amount  of compensation  to address  this. This decision has been  reached having  
carefully considered all available evidence in this specific case, and in the context of a wider 
understanding of the amount of compensation we would  typically award  in cases of a similar nature.
my provisional  decision
Im minded to uphold  this complaint and instruct  TSB Bank plc to pay Mrs P £50 to cover any call 
costs incurred. In addition, unless it has already done  so, TSB should  pay Mrs P £150 to reflect the 
trouble and upset she has experienced.
If either party has anything further to add, they should do so by the date specified above. I will then 
reconsider the complaint before reaching  a final decision.
Clair Bantin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4552126