K821x#15complaint
Mr A complained about the customer service he received from Monzo Bank  Ltd. 
background
On 25 April 2019, Mr A needed to catch a train back to his home town,  where he had an 
important appointment.  He tried to pay for the ticket  using  a digital payment system for 
mobile phones  on which his Monzo  card was stored.  He couldnt do that, and he missed his 
appointment. He complained. Mr A had made  a number  of other complaints about Monzo 
too.
On Friday 3 May, Mr A received a final response  from Monzo at around  14.35. This said that 
the bank didnt uphold Mr As complaint  about his card declining. It said the card didnt work 
due to an application cryptogram  error which is an issue with the card terminal. Unfortunately  
no error has been caused by Monzo in this instance.
Mr A sent a in-app chat message at 14.39  saying is this the complaint  referring  to [name  of 
train company] as there is no detail into what the complaint is about? He received a reply at 
14.41 saying The letter details that the complaint is in regards to your card being declined.  
Mr A replied  Where it happened  at... train station leaving me stranded?  He added multiple 
additions to the chat, including  at 14.42  which complaint are you referring  to?  
Mr A didnt receive a reply until 16.15 when a Monzo adviser told him she was just taking  
over due to a change  in shift. She added  Please  give me a few moments to read over the 
conversation so far so that I dont ask you to repeat anything. I will be as quick as I can. But 
it was around 19.45 when  a different adviser rang Mr A. This adviser  tried to help Mr A, but 
he confirmed that the complaints team worked business  hours, so hed expect a reply from 
that team the following week.
The following  morning, Saturday 4 May,  Mr A tried another chat and asked  if anyone  from 
the complaints  team  was working. The adviser  told Mr A that he couldnt  put him in touch 
with the complaints team until the following week. 
On 6 May,  Monzo sent Mr A another final response  about our communication within the 
app  in other words,  the time it had taken to get back to him. Monzos  letter agreed it might 
have caused him some  inconvenience and paid him £30 which  it said was a gesture of 
apology.
Mr A wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service. 
The investigator uphold  Mr As complaint. He said Monzos final response letter was vague.  
And Monzo  could have  provided a better service when Mr A had asked it for clarification.  He 
didnt think it should have taken three days to confirm the retailer  referred  to in the letter.  And 
the investigator though that Monzo should  have  contacted its complaint team  as soon as 
Mr A raised the query on 3 May  not waited some six hours, only to be told hed have to 
wait until the complaints  department opened the following week. The investigator thought 
Monzo should pay Mr A a further £70 compensation.
Mr A accepted this, but Monzo refused  to pay. 
Ref: DRN45263772Monzo said its response to Mr A had been adequate and £30 compensation was fair and 
reasonable. It said that Mr A had been aware that the retailer  in his complaint was the train 
company. In regard to its delay in replying to Mr A, Monzo said the reason Mr A had waited 
in the chat queue for two hours was that he was in a queue. Monzo said it didnt think this 
was unreasonable.
Monzo said that its process  was to escalate  any complaint queries chronologically, and the 
complaints team had a service  level agreement  of 24 hours to respond.  It said the reason it 
had compensated  Mr A £30 was because it was unfortunate  this had fallen over a weekend.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Its clear from the information I have that 
Mr A had multiple complaints with Monzo.  This complaint is specifically about the customer  
service Mr A received  when he got in touch with Monzo on 3 May.
The reason  why this problem arose was that Monzos final response  letter  dated 3 May 
wasnt specific enough. It didnt give any details about the transaction Mr A had complained  
about  for example the amount of the transaction,  date on which  it was attempted, nor the 
company Mr A had been trying to pay. 
This letter is very poor,  as its so incomplete.  The reason its failings became a problem  was 
that Mr M had raised a number of complaints  for example hed made another one about a 
failed transaction  at a supermarket. So it wasnt good enough for Monzo to have said that 
Mr A knew  the retailer was the train company. Its clear that what Mr A was asking was 
whether the vague final response letter hed been  sent was about his complaint about  not 
being able to make a payment at the train station  or whether it was one of his other 
complaints. Given the lack of information  on the letter, I find that its not surprising Mr A 
didnt know which of his complaints this letter was about.
And Mr A needed some evidence to say the failed transaction was the train companys fault 
not Monzos. That was because  hed missed an important appointment and needed to be 
able to prove, to the appointment people, what had happened.  Monzo was aware of Mr As 
circumstances.
Ive looked at the chat transcript. As Ive set out in the background section above, Mr A 
wasnt given acceptable  service. He was kept hanging on without a reply to what was 
actually a relatively simple  question   which of his complaints  this letter  was about. 
I appreciate that relations between Mr A and Monzo had become extremely strained about a 
number of matters. So its understandable that the front-line team might well have wanted  
the complaints  team  to deal with the reply. But I find that it must have been possible to avoid  
Mr A having  had to wait in frustration for so long. For example, an adviser could have  
referred the chat to complaints team straightaway   and, importantly, told Mr A that they 
were doing  so. And he should have been  given a timescale if they werent immediately 
available, so he could  hang up and wait for a reply  in a set, reasonably short,  timescale. 
Then he wouldnt have  been holding on for so long in frustration. Nor would he have been 
told the adviser would  answer him in a few moments, which  didnt happen. And it would  have 
been very frustrating  to start the question at around  14.35 but to make no progress until the 
complaints team had gone home for the weekend.
Ref: DRN45263773If the query had been passed to complaints  team in the early afternoon of 3 May, I consider 
the complaints  team  should  have been able to tell Mr A the answer quickly   in other words, 
which of his complaints  was the subject of the letter it had just issued. 
All this would, of course, have been  avoided if the 3 May final response letter had been 
adequately specific  about which complaint it was dealing with. The final response letter of 
6 May was no better in terms of specific information  about what  had happened  or when, 
though this was of less immediate importance  to Mr A, because  he needed to prove  why he 
hadnt managed  to get to his important appointment. 
Taking into account the very poor quality of the 3 May final response, and Monzos failure to 
handle Mr As 3 May question about  which complaint this was about, I find that £100  total 
compensation is fair and reasonable for Monzos failings. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order  Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr A a 
further £70 compensation, making  £100  in all. This is for the distress  and inconvenience 
which the bank  caused him by its inadequate  3 May final response  letter,  and its failure to 
deal appropriately  and promptly with Mr As long unanswered chat on 3 May.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4526377