K822xcomplaint
Mr G is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander)  didnt pursue a chargeback on his 
behalf and believes  he has lost out as a result of this.
background
I issued my provisional decision in March  2019 (copied below). I explained I had carefully 
considered all of the available  evidence  and arguments from the outset,  in order to decide 
what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I had also taken into account relevant 
regulatory rules as well as the law and good  industry  practice.
Having done so, I explained  I didnt  think Santander  had acted unfairly in not raising a 
chargeback in this case. However, I did think that Mr G was entitled to compensation for 
trouble and inconvenience  related to aspects of the customer service  Santander  provided  
when he initially raised his concerns.
Mr G has responded to my provisional  decision in a number of emails. Ill address the 
comments hes made below.
Firstly, Mr G has expressed surprise at the findings in my provisional decision,  and said he is 
concerned that the evidence he provided hasnt been taken into account. Specifically, Mr G 
has reiterated that the 800 Euros (or equivalent  in pounds sterling)  that he withdrew from his 
gateway provider  eWallet were all the funds available  to him to withdraw at the time.
Id like to reassure Mr G that I thought about this before  reaching  my provisional  findings. I 
accept that Mr G withdrew the total sum of funds available in his eWallet  at the time in 
question. The point I was making was, that being  the case, it made no difference whether or 
not additional funds coming out of his eWallet were blocked by Santander  as at the time 
there were no more funds  held in his eWallet to withdraw.
I know that Mr G says there were  more funds held by the Credit  Pack  Provider, which he 
intended to transfer out to his bank  account  via the Gateway Provider. But he didnt manage 
to transfer them to the Gateway Provider  before the Credit Pack Provider stopped  releasing  
funds. So, whether or not Mr G had a bank  account  that wouldve accepted additional funds 
from the Gateway Provider,  it seems  to me the funds transfer process  wouldve been  
blocked by this earlier barrier anyway.
In any case, Ive not seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that any block was ever 
applied to Mr Gs Santander account  in terms of incoming funds from the Gateway Provider.  
So I dont  think there is any associated loss for which Santander  can reasonably be held 
responsible.
Mr G has also queried my comment that he received the service  he was entitled  to. I 
understand his confusion, as this is a complex area. However, as I stated  in my provisional 
decision, Mr G made  transfers  to his eWallet; which was a service offered by the Gateway 
Provider. The subsequent purchases  of credit packs, using the funds in the eWallet,  were  
separate transactions.
The only transactions I can look at here, in terms of Santanders ability to raise a 
chargeback, are the initial transfers of money to the Gateway Provider. And the only service 
Mr G was expecting from the Gateway Provider  in relation to these  transactions was for the 
Ref: DRN43142682Gateway Provider to credit his eWallet with the funds in question,  thus enabling him to make  
future purchases.
Had the funds  gone astray, or not appeared in his eWallet, Mr G couldve potentially asked 
Santander to raise a chargeback in respect  of these initial  transactions.  Furthermore,  as the 
eWallet shouldve been credited straight away, this would be considered an immediate 
service rather  than a future  service,  so the deadline of 120 calendar  days to raise  this 
chargeback would apply. However, its not in dispute  that Mr Gs successfully credited his 
eWallet with funds. Or that more  than 120 days passed before any concerns were raised 
with Santander.
I know that Mr G is unhappy about not receiving the service  he expected from the Credit  
Pack Provider, and he says that this service (i.e. return on his credit packs)  was due to take 
place in the future, so the 540 day deadline should  apply. But the service from the Credit 
Pack Provider is linked to different transactions  i.e. the subsequent credit pack purchases  
he made using his eWallet. And these transactions took place between the Gateway 
Provider and the Credit  Pack  Provider, so Santander isnt involved.
Mr G has also raised  concerns around  impartiality and fairness. Id like to reassure him that 
this Service is entirely  independent  and doesnt  favour either party  in the dispute,  and that 
his case has been decided on the basis of the evidence presented.
In addition, Mr G has said that the provisional decision is inaccurate.  Specifically, he has 
said that he never once  said that some people got their money back as a gesture of good 
will from businesses, and has pointed out that the only party  to mention  this was Santander. 
However, the provisional decision is in agreement with Mr Gs comments,  as it says 
Santander has also told us that some other  businesses decided to issue  refunds as goodwill 
gestures for their customers
Mr G has also reiterated concerns that other  people  customers of Santander and other  
banks - were  treated differently and got their money back. As Ive said in my provisional 
decision, Santander initially told us that at least one of these cases  related to a customer  
who made purchases directly from the credit pack provider and, as such,  the service in 
question was the return on the credit  pack itself  which  arguably  exceeded  120 days, thus 
extending the timeframe  for the chargeback. 
I dont know the details of the case Mr G has mentioned,  or any other customers  cases, and 
I cant comment on them in this decision. Mr Gs case must be decided on its own individual 
merits, and  as Ive explained above - Mr Gs credit pack purchases  were made via his 
eWallet, so the associated service was the crediting of his eWallet,  not the return  on his 
credit packs.
As explained in my provisional decision,  I do think that Santander gave Mr G poor initial 
customer service  by misinforming him about  the chargeback deadline, and due to an 
administrative error in processing his concerns.  Ive not seen anything  from either  party to 
change my mind on this point, so I think Santander should compensate Mr G for this.
my findings
Having reconsidered  the complaint again in its entirety, along with the new comments  that 
have been submitted, I have reached  the same decision as before, and for the same 
reasons.
Ref: DRN43142683Neither party has provided any further  evidence  to consider. The deadline  for further  
submissions has now passed. So I am upholding this complaint, and instructing Santander 
to put things right as set out below.
my final decision
Santander UK Plc should pay Mr G £250 to reflect the trouble  and upset caused  by its initial  
administrative error and incorrect  advice. Santander  can subtract any money already paid to 
Mr G in respect of this complaint from this figure. As Santander  has told us it has already 
paid Mr G this sum, it may be that there is nothing outstanding for it to pay.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Ellie Clare
ombudsman
Ref: DRN43142684copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Santander didnt  pursue a chargeback  on his behalf and believes he has lost out 
as a result of this.
background
Between 9 September 2015 and 31 March 2016 Mr G made  a series of purchases on his debit card,  
with a total value of just over £6,500. Mr G has told us that these transactions were  to purchase 
credit packs from an online retailer, with the expectation of receiving  credit returns  in future on each 
pack. The purchases  were  made  through a gateway provider.
On 22 January 2016, Mr G received a credit  of £44.50, which is listed on his bank statement as 
originating from the gateway  provider.  Mr G has told us that Santander blocked further funds from this 
source, and so when he attempted to transfer approximately 800 Euros  from the gateway provider 
into his account later that year, this transaction was declined. Santander  has told us that no block was 
put in place.
Mr G says, due to the block, he opened an account with another bank, which took approximately a 
month to verify with the gateway provider.  Following this verification period, Mr G was able to transfer 
the 800 Euros mentioned  above  from the gateway  provider  into this new account.  Mr G has provided 
a statement from this new account, which  confirms  a credit  of £657 from the gateway provider on 8 
September 2016 (this equates to approximately 800 Euros based on historical exchange rates). 
Mr G has told us he hasnt received any other funds back through  any other channels. He has 
explained that the credit  packs were all purchased on different  dates  and it was necessary to wait until 
the credit packs had expired  before the money could be withdrawn. As such, Mr G says that the 800 
Euros mentioned above represented all the funds that could be transferred  to the gateway provider  at 
that point.  
Mr G also says that further credit packs were due to expire over the following weeks,  totalling  over 
15,000 Euros. However, shortly after the 800 Euros was successfully transferred  to his new bank 
account, Mr G says the gateway provider ceased operating. At the same  time,  the credit pack 
provider said no further funds were  left, and claimed that the gateway provider  was responsible for 
this.
On 1 February 2017 Mr G contacted Santander,  as he believed he had been subject to a scam. 
Santander has explained that, due to an administrative error, Mr Gs chargeback enquiry wasnt 
correctly processed  until 13 February, when  Mr G contacted Santander again  to chase it up. It also 
seems Mr G was given incorrect information about the timeframe relating to chargebacks at this point.
It appears Mr G provided  a full submission  to Santander  on 17 February  2017.  Santander declined  to 
raise the chargeback, but offered Mr G £100 compensation  for the administrative  error and incorrect 
information described  above.
Mr G wasnt  happy with this, so he brought his complaint to us. Our Investigator didnt think  Santander 
had acted unfairly in not pursuing the chargeback, but did increase the compensation  award to £250.  
Both parties initially accepted  this view, and the case was closed.
The case was reopened in July 2018 following a request from Mr G for an Ombudsmans decision on 
the matter, to which Santander agreed. The complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN43142685Ive considered all the evidence thats been submitted in this case. Based on everything Ive seen so 
far, I think Santander acted fairly in not raising  a chargeback in this case. Ive explained my thinking 
below.
A chargeback  is a way of resolving disputes between the business that issued a credit or debit card to 
a customer, and the merchant  responsible for providing goods or services  the customer  purchased on 
that card.  The chargeback process is a voluntary scheme, which provides some protection to 
cardholders in limited  circumstances. The customers bank can process  a chargeback against the 
merchant, following the rules of the relevant card scheme  which in this case  is the VISA Regulations 
Dispute Rules (April 2015).  
Mr G made it clear in his initial submissions to Santander that he believed he had been subject to a 
scam, and that he hadnt received the services he expected. Santander  declined to raise a 
chargeback, and gave two main reasons  for this decision.
One of Santanders arguments was that Mr G had received a service  from the merchant, thus 
removing the basis for pursuing a chargeback. In order to make a finding on this point, I first need  to 
establish which business should be deemed the merchant in this case. This is a point of dispute 
between the two parties.
Santander says that the merchant is the gateway  provider  that processed Mr Gs payments. Mr G 
believes that the merchant is the business that supplied  the credit packs. This question  can be 
resolved by considering  the nature of the credit  pack purchase transactions. It appears that the 
gateway provider  offered a range of services, including the facilitation  of payments to third parties, 
and the option to credit an e-wallet for use in later purchases.  
If Mr G held an account with the gateway provider (for example an e-wallet), and credited this account 
independently of his credit pack purchases, it would appear that these transactions were  successfully 
completed once the funds  were transferred to the e-wallet. Any purchases of credit packs  using funds 
from that e-wallet could then be seen as further, separate transactions.  However, if Mr G simply 
purchased the credit  packs via the gateway provider in single transactions, then the merchant  in this 
case would be more likely  to be deemed the credit pack provider.
Mr G has confirmed  that in order to buy the credit  packs, he added  money to the gateway providers 
e-wallet, which was then used to purchase credit packs. As such,  in this case, I think  the merchant is 
the gateway provider  and the service  in question is the provision and crediting of an e-wallet in which  
funds were stored for future purchases. And this service  does seem to have been provided.
Santanders other reason  for not raising  a chargeback was that it was too late, because more  than 
120 days had passed since the transactions in question. It is not in dispute that all the transactions  
were made more than 120 days before Mr G raised  his concerns with Santander. However, the VISA  
Regulations Dispute Rules  say that if the services were  to be provided after the processing date of 
the transaction, the 120 calendar-day time-frame is calculated from the date that the cardholder 
expected to receive the service.  This applies as long as the time-frame  doesnt exceed 540 days 
overall.
However, as the transactions in question relate  to the transfer of funds to the gateway provider e-
wallet, then this is a service  that takes place  immediately.  So there is no basis on which to apply  the 
longer 540 day timeframe.
Given this, it seems to me that Santander has acted fairly  and reasonably in declining  to raise a 
chargeback in this case. 
Mr G has cited examples  of other  customers who purchased credit packs receiving refunds under  
chargeback schemes.  
Ref: DRN43142686Santander initially told us that at least one of these  cases related to a customer who made purchases 
directly from the credit  pack provider and, as such,  the service  in question  was the return  on the credit 
pack itself,  which therefore  arguably exceeded 120 days, thus extending  the timeframe for the 
chargeback. The detail of this case is unclear, and - as it is not the subject of this complaint - I cant  
comment on it further here. However,  what is clear is that Mr Gs purchases were  made  via the 
gateway provider,  so this line of argument  doesnt apply in his case. 
Santander has also told us that some other businesses decided to issue refunds as goodwill gestures 
for their customers, but there is no obligation on any business to do this.
Ive also thought  about  the initial administrative  error  in processing Mr Gs chargeback  enquiry and 
the incorrect  information provided. Santander  initially offered £100 to reflect the trouble and upset 
caused by this error. Our investigator  recommended  this be increased  to £250, which Santander 
accepted. I think this is reasonable,  so Im not making any additional award  for this aspect of Mr Gs 
complaint.
Mr G has also said that Santander shouldve done more to protect  him from fraud.  Ive thought  
carefully about this, but its not clear  what more Santander couldve  reasonably been expected to do 
in this case. Mr Gs transactions to the gateway provider were not notably high value and the money 
wasnt actually leaving his possession, as it was placed  in his e-wallet for future  use. 
Even if Santander had queried  these  transactions with Mr G, and established his intention to use his 
e-wallet funds  to make  credit  pack  purchases, its not clear  what  impact this wouldve  had at the time. 
Mr G has pointed out that Santander were aware of concerns from August 2016 onwards when 
incoming funds to his account from the gateway provider were blocked, but all Mr Gs purchases were  
made considerably  in advance  of this date.
Mr G has also said that Santanders decision to block incoming funds  from the gateway provider led 
to financial loss on his part. He has produced an email  from the gateway provider, which  states 
Santander bank is not accepting payments from [gateway provider]  where the source of funds  is 
[credit pack provider]. For this reason we cannot  verify  your bank account. We have removed  this 
bank account from your list at My Accounts.
However, Santander  has told it is has been unable  to find any record of blocking  incoming payments 
from the gateway provider, and that blocking incoming credits is not an approach it would  take. So it 
seems possible that the email from the gateway provider  was misleading on this point. At present, I 
dont have enough evidence to say that Santander  ever imposed a block on incoming payments from 
the gateway provider  to Mr Gs account, so I cant hold it responsible for any loss Mr G believes 
resulted from this.
In any case, even if Santander had declined Mr Gs attempt to transfer 800 Euros  from the gateway 
provider into his account, I cant  say this wouldve led to a loss for Mr G. I note he did manage  to 
transfer these funds  into an alternative account, albeit  after about a months delay.
Mr G has also told us that more credit packs expired  during that months  delay, totalling over 15,000 
Euros. He believes that, had Santander  not blocked incoming funds from the gateway  provider, he 
wouldve been  able to credit his Santander  account with these funds. However, as I understand  it, all 
funds Mr G hoped to access  from the credit pack provider had to be channelled  through the gateway 
provider in order to reach his bank account. And Mr G has confirmed that he didnt transfer any further 
funds to the gateway provider,  prior to the credit pack  provider itself stopping  releasing funds.
Mr G has said the reason  he didnt transfer additional funds from the credit pack provider  to the 
gateway provider,  even after further credit packs expired,  was because  there was little point doing this 
until he was able to find a solution to getting the funds out from the gateway provider. As Ive already 
said, Im not persuaded  that the difficulty here stemmed from any action by Santander. But, in any 
case, Mr G did find a solution by opening another account. And, despite the months  delay, this 
solution was active prior to the gateway provider ceasing operations.  So, had the funds from the more  
Ref: DRN43142687recently expired credit  packs been  successfully transferred to the gateway provider, Ive not seen 
anything to make me think  Mr G wouldve been unable to transfer these funds  to his newly opened  
bank account at the same time as he transferred the 800 Euros.
Overall, I dont think Santander can be held responsible for preventing Mr G from accessing  the funds  
he has described  or for any direct financial  loss to Mr G in relation  to this matter.  So I dont intend to 
make any award relating to this.
my provisional  decision
Im minded to ask Santander UK Plc to pay Mr G £250 to reflect the trouble and upset caused  by its 
initial administrative error  and incorrect advice.  Santander  can subtract any money  already paid to Mr 
G in respect of this complaint from this figure.
If either party has anything further to add, they should do so by the date specified above. I will then 
reconsider the complaint before reaching  a final decision.
Ellie Clare
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4314268