K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Miss G says MBNA  Limited  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Gs case.
Ive decide the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
The PPI was added when Miss G took out her credit card.  She has said it was added  without  
her knowing  and she didnt want it. But I think its likely the application form Miss G signed to 
apply for the credit  card had a separate section for the PPI with equally noticeable boxes  for 
Miss G to tick to say either yes or no to the cover. And I think  its likely MBNA  only added  
the PPI to Miss Gs account after shed indicated on her application form that she wanted  it. 
So I think MBNA likely made it clear that Miss G didnt have to take the PPI and she chose to 
take it. But I can understand  why Miss G might  not remember this now, given how long ago 
she made her credit  card application. 
I dont think MBNA led Miss G to believe  it was giving  her personalised advice on the PPI - 
or recommended the PPI as being  right for particular circumstances. So MBNA  didnt  have 
to check the PPI was right for Miss G. But MBNA  did have to make sure Miss G got the 
information she needed to decide if the PPI was right for her. 
Its possible the information MBNA gave Miss G about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take the cover  so it looks to me like she wanted  this type of 
cover at the time. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, Miss G 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the cover   so it wouldve  been useful 
for her if something went wrong. And from what Miss G has told us, she wasnt  entitled  to 
anything more than statutory sick pay or redundancy pay from her employer. Shes also told 
us she didnt have  savings or anything else to help pay her credit card if she lost her job or 
was too sick to work. Taking everything  account, I dont think better information about the 
PPI wouldve  put Miss G off taking  the cover.
What Ive said above means MBNA  doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Miss G.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss G because:
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss G about that. Because  MBNA didnt tell Miss G, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN44074892Ive thought about all Miss Gs points, including what shes  said about being  in a secure job 
at the time. But I still think at the time of the sale it was possible Miss G might  in future suffer  
a loss of income  due to sickness or involuntary unemployment. 
Miss G has also said that from what she can recall she spoke to MBNA during a period of 
unemployment but was told she wasnt eligible for the cover. But I havent seen anything to 
make me think Miss G wasnt  eligible for the cover  at the time she took out her card. Based 
on her situation at that time, it looks like Miss G wouldve been able to claim on the policy  if 
the circumstances arose.  So I still dont think better information about the cover  wouldve 
changed Miss Gs decision to take it. 
For these reasons and the reasons Ive already given further above, Miss Gs points dont 
change my decision. If Miss G thinks she ought  to have got a payment from the policy  in the 
past and wishes  to try to make a retrospective  claim for this now, shed need to approach the 
policy insurer about this separately.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Miss G.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Miss G any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4407489