K821x#15complaint
Miss B says Active Securities Limited  trading as 247MoneyBox lent to her irresponsibly. She 
says she had to use one loan to clear  another. She says if 247MoneyBox had looked at her 
finances properly  it wouldve  seen that she was in serious financial trouble and not lent to 
her. 
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be partially upheld. 247Moneybox disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion. The complaint  was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Miss Bs complaint should be upheld  in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint  and my provisional findings are attached and form 
part of this final decision. 
247Moneybox confirmed that they had received my provisional decision. And the business 
agreed with what I had said. Miss B confirmed that she had received my provisional  decision 
and she didnt have  anything to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
247Moneybox and Miss B didnt raise  any new points after receiving my provisional  decision. 
And 247Moneybox  agreed with it. So Ive reached  the same  conclusions I reached before, 
for the same reasons.
putting things right  what 247Moneybox needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss B paid on loans 3 to 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans 3 to 5 from Miss Bs credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 247Moneybox to take off tax from this interest. 
247Moneybox must give Miss B a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Miss Bs complaint.
Active Securities Limited should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN47193972extract from my provisional  decision
This complaint is about  five payday loans  247Moneybox provided to Miss B between July 2012 and 
November 2012.
loan number date startedamount 
borroweddate ended
1 12/07/2012 £80 30/07/2012
2 31/07/2012 £155 31/08/2012
3 03/09/2012 £200 30/10/2012
4 11/11/2012 £340 29/11/2012
5 29/11/2012 £340 25/04/2014
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. 247Moneybox  disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
247Moneybox needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In practice  
this means that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Miss B could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things,  such as how much  was being lent, 
the repayment amounts  and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that 247Moneybox should  fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments  being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably  make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically  follow 
this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
Ref: DRN47193973repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Bs complaint. Ive decided to uphold Miss Bs complaint in part and have 
explained why below.
what would proportionate checks have shown 247Moneybox  for loans 1 and 2?
For loan 1 Miss B needed  to repay around £125. The repayment for loan 2 was higher at around 
£250. Both of these were due to be repaid  around a month after they started. 
247Moneybox says that Miss B declared that she had a disposable  income of around £850. The 
business hasnt been able to provide  much else other than this figure. Theres no information about 
what it asked Miss B and her replies. So I dont  think this information is entirely reliable. 
But I need to decide what information 247Moneybox  wouldve found out if it had made  proportionate 
checks. I think the above  information  gives  a fair indication that, more likely than not, Miss B wouldve 
provided information  that showed the loans  were affordable. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely 247Moneybox was made aware of any 
financial problems Miss B mightve been having. Or anything  that wouldve  prompted it to investigate 
her circumstances further. So it wouldve been reasonable for it to rely on the information Miss B 
supplied for loans 1 and 2. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments  247Moneybox made  were likely to have 
shown Miss B could sustainably repay loans  1 and 2. And I think  its decision to approve these loans 
was likely  to be reasonable. Im not planning  to uphold  Miss Bs complaint about loans 1 and 2. 
why I currently dont  think 247Moneyboxs checks were  proportionate for loans  3 to 5 and 
what proportionate checks wouldve shown
Miss B took loan 3 very soon after loan 2 had finished.  And the repayment amount  was much higher 
at around £400. The borrowing amount increased for the final two loans. Miss B needed to repay over 
£600 for loan 5. 
So I think 247Moneybox  couldve realised  at that time that Miss B may have some  longer term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans  to help with a temporary cash flow problem. 
247Moneybox shouldve also become concerned  about whether it knew enough about  Miss Bs true 
financial situation.
So I think that it wouldve  been proportionate to fully review Miss Bs financial situation. And I think  
that it needed to verify the information it found out where possible. This is to make  sure Miss B was in 
position to make the repayments sustainably.
I dont think 247Moneybox did this. Its only been able to demonstrate that it probably asked Miss B 
about her income and expenditure.  So I need to think about  what 247Moneybox wouldve  seen if it 
had carried out proportionate  checks.  
Miss B has provided some information about her financial circumstances such  as her bank 
statements. I accept that this isnt exactly what 247Moneybox wouldve seen at the time. But I think  it 
wouldve found out similar information if it had made proportionate checks, so I think its reasonable to 
rely on it.
This shows that Miss B was having problems  managing  her money. It looks like her income was in 
reality around £800 a month. But her general  expenditure  seems to have been around £500 a month. 
Ref: DRN47193974And she had other financial  commitments of between £50 and £200  a month.  So her expenditure  
wasnt far short of her income  in any event. 
And Miss B was using other short term lenders. She was borrowing and repaying at least £500 a 
month at this time and sometimes nearer  £700. So overall her existing commitments were  already far 
in excess of her income. So I dont think she could  sustainably make the repayments to the 
247Moneybox loans.  And she did struggle  to repay this lending. 
I think  that 247Moneybox wouldve found out this information  if it had made proportionate checks. And 
I think  247Moneybox wouldve seen Miss B wouldnt have  been able to repay the loans in a 
sustainable way. So I think that 247Moneybox  shouldnt have given loans  3 to 5 to Miss B and I think 
she lost out as a result  of this. So Im planning to uphold  Miss Bs complaint about  loans 3 to 5. 
Ref: DRN4719397