K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1993. Mr and Mrs B say Northern Bank Limited mis-sold them the MPPI. 
The mortgage was in joint names, but the policy only covered Mr B.
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  can be found in my provisional 
decision which Ive attached below and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Northern Bank has said it has no further  comments to make. Mr and Mrs B have said that 
they werent going to provide any further  information. As I havent received any new 
information, I see no reason to change my provisional decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2019.
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN44951172provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy taken  out in 1993. Mr 
and Mrs B say Northern Bank Limited mis-sold them the MPPI. 
The mortgage  was in joint names, but the policy only covered Mr B.
background
When our service first looked at Mr and Mrs Bs complaint,  an adjudicator thought that it should  be 
upheld. After Northern Bank challenged this, a different adjudicator looked at the complaint again   
and found that the MPPI wasnt  mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with this, so the complaint  has been  passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the MPPI  wasnt mis-sold.  I know  this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs B, especially 
as theyve waited so long for their complaint to be resolved, so Ill explain the reasons for this below.
Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage and MPPI over 25 years  ago  so it isnt surprising that they 
havent provided  much detail about what happened  at the time.  Northern Bank also doesnt have the 
original paperwork that was completed.  But this isnt usual either   and businesses arent required to 
keep records indefinitely. But Northern Bank has provided  a copy  of a mortgage application, and 
MPPI application that it says was in use at the time, and is representative  of what Mr and Mrs B 
wouldve completed.  Looking at this paperwork, I can see that the mortgage application form presents 
the policy  as an optional product  and asks for some  choices to be made  about  who will be covered, 
and for how much. The separate MPPI application would then also be completed.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Northern Bank did anything differently when it sold the MPPI 
to Mr and Mrs D  and they havent said that they didnt  know  that the policy was an optional  product, 
or that it was added without their knowledge. So with everything in mind, I think Northern  Bank made  
it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the MPPI and they chose to take it out. 
As Northern  Bank recommended  the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs B it had to check that the MPPI was right for 
their circumstances. And I can see that one of their main  concerns was that as Mr B was self-
employed, he wouldnt be able to make a claim on the policy. But looking  at the policy terms,  I can 
see that it wouldnt  be any more difficult for Mr B to have made a claim  than for an employed person.
As Ive said above, only Mr B was covered  by the policy. When an adjudicator  first looked  at this 
complaint, they thought  that as Mr and Mrs B had similar incomes, that it should  be upheld  as the 
cover shouldve been  split between them. But another adjudicator then explained that in this instance,  
as no claim  had been made, and the policy had been cancelled, that Mr and Mrs B hadnt lost out 
because of this. 
But I think slightly differently  on this matter. From the information given to me, I can see that being 
self-employed, Mr B didnt have any sick pay, while Mrs B was entitled  to six months  full pay, followed 
by six months half pay from her employer. So it seems that the advisor  made a recommendation to 
Ref: DRN44951173cover only Mr B, as he was the one without existing cover, and I dont think the advisor was wrong to 
do so. I also cant see that Mr B was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the MPPI cover.  
It is possible the information  Northern Bank gave  Mr and Mrs B about  the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as mentioned above, I think they chose to take it out  so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about  the MPPI would  
have put them off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have said - including what theyve said about paying for 
MPPI after their mortgage had ended. However, Im pleased to see that this has already  been 
rectified by Northern Bank, and Mr and Mrs B have already been provided with a refund of the 
premiums they overpaid. 
Ive also thought  about  the commission Mr and Mrs B paid on their MPPI  and whether Northern 
Bank treated them unfairly. 
Northern Bank has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Bs MPPI was less than half of what 
they paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Northern Bank has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen  it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Bs commission was less than half the 
cost of the MPPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them  about  the commission  so I 
dont think Northern Bank  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs B back 
any of the commission they paid for the MPPI. 
my provisional  decision
I currently dont plan to uphold  this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D, and Northern Bank Limited  can provide anything further for me to consider by 5 May 
2019, after which Ill issue my final decision.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4495117