K822xComplaint
Ms W complains that Equifax Limited failed  to keep her financial information  private.  
Background 
Earlier this year, Ms W was unexpectedly contacted  by her ex-husbands mother,  who said 
that Ms Ws information was appearing on her credit file. Ms W told Equifax about  this in 
February, but her data wasnt removed for some weeks.  
Ms W complained to Equifax. She explained that shed  been trying to move on from the 
separation, so this had caused her a lot of anxiety. She said her ex-husbands mother  would 
have seen that shed received a large  lump sum after the divorce, which shed wanted  to 
keep private. And she received continued  contact from her ex-husbands mother  when the 
issue wasnt resolved.
Equifax apologised to Ms W. It said both profiles shared certain characteristics, which  had 
resulted in a mismatch. It reassured Ms W it had rectified the problem by loading  a notice of 
disassociation, which would prevent  it happening  again in the future. It also offered Ms W 
£500 as compensation for the distress she was caused. 
Ms W didnt  think  Equifaxs compensation offer reflected what  shed gone through,  or the 
length of time it took to resolve  the problem.  She didnt feel Equifax had sufficiently 
explained what happened or that it had taken enough precautions to prevent it recurring. Our 
investigator looked into Ms Ws complaint but didnt  uphold  it, as he felt Equifax had done 
enough to put things  right. The matter  has been passed to me make a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ms W has said she isnt satisfied with Equifaxs explanation for how the error occurred. But I 
think its given her a reasonable description  of what happened. Its explained that its systems 
make allowances for small differences in personal information. This is to make sure data is 
still captured if someone shortens their name  on a credit application for example. 
Ms W and her ex-husbands  mother have the same  first initial,  and for a time shared the 
same last name. They also share certain financial associations, for example to Ms Ws
ex-husband. So the system inadvertently matched Ms Ws information to her ex-husbands 
mothers profile. 
Equifax accepts this should never  have  happened  and has apologised to Ms W. Its now 
corrected the issue  by removing the association that existed between  Ms W and her 
ex-husbands mother. Ms W hasnt alleged that she suffered a financial loss as a 
consequence of Equifaxs  actions. So the outstanding issue  for me to decide  is whether its 
offer of £500 compensation fairly  reflects the trouble and upset  Ms W was caused.  
I think it would worry anyone to learn that their personal information had been  shared with 
someone who wasnt entitled to it. And I think its likely to have  had even more  of an impact  
on Ms W due to the nature of her relationship  with her ex-husbands mother. I gather she 
hadnt heard  from her ex-husband  since the divorce  two years ago. 
Ref: DRN44119972Equifax doesnt  appear to have resolved the issue until April, despite Ms W bringing it to 
their attention in February. So Ms Ws anxiety about the situation was extended  over that 
period of time. And it seems that the longer the issue  went unresolved the more  information 
became visible  to Ms Ws ex-husbands mother. 
No amount of compensation can change  what happened  to Ms W however, and our awards  
arent intended to be punitive. I need to base my award on the impact that Equifaxs error 
had on Ms W. And taking all of the circumstances into account, I think Equifax has already 
made an offer that recognises  this, and reflects the length of time it took to put things right.  
So I havent seen  fit to award a higher amount.   
Ms W has said she isnt confident that Equifax  has put safeguards in place to prevent this 
happening to other people  in the future. As were not a regulator,  its not our place to tell a 
business what policies  or procedures it should  adopt. Im only able to consider the impact  
that this particular error had on Ms W. 
Ms W is also unhappy with the time it took Equifax to answer her complaint. Equifax sent 
Ms W information explaining the regulator  allows it 56 days  to resolve complaints. Whilst 
Equifax did respond  in the allowed time, given the sensitivity of the situation,  I think  it should 
have responded  sooner. But as Ive said, I think Equifaxs offer takes into account the length 
of time it took to put things  right overall.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  I direct Equifax Limited  to pay Ms W £500 
for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.  
Mike Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4411997