K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy with a credit card.
background
Lloyds doesnt  know exactly when the PPI was sold so they have assumed it was taken  at 
the same  time as the credit card was taken out, which was in 1985.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint and Ive explained why below.
Its not straightforward to decide a case when there are no documents  available from the 
time of the sale, as is the case here. The sale happened most  likely over 34 years ago, so 
Im not surprised that neither Lloyds  nor Mr G has been able to provide any of the specific  
sale documents from so long ago. Where there isnt much evidence for me to consider, I 
need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider 
what I do have, look at what  both sides have said, and make a decision based on what  I 
think most likely  happened.  
Ive seen a credit card statement from 7 January  2000, the earliest  that Lloyds has in its 
archive, which shows that Mr G was paying  for Cardholder  protection Plan. I think  its more 
likely that Mr G would have been  provided with these statements and would have been 
aware he was paying  for this policy. So if Mr G hadnt agreed  to the PPI, as he says now,  
then I think his statements  would  have put him on notice he was paying for something he 
hadnt agreed to and he would have, most likely,  raised this as an issue  with Lloyds many 
years before he eventually chose  to do.     
The same statement shows there was an existing credit balance  on the card.  So it seems 
that the card was sold prior to 2000.  Consequently,  its more likely that the PPI was sold 
prior to 2000 as well. 
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Lloyds didnt make Mr G aware  the PPI was 
optional, failed to secure his agreement to take it out or miss-lead  him to thinking  that he had 
to take out the cover  to get the credit.  And in any event, considering  how long ago the sale 
was in this case,  I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold  the complaint on 
these points. So having considered all the submissions I have received in this case,  I think 
its more likely that Lloyds  wouldve made  Mr G aware that the PPI was optional  and that he 
chose to take it, even  though he may not remember that now, many years later. 
Ref: DRN43900772Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr G, so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. 
I say this because  Mr G was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And he seems to have had a need for the cover. I 
say this as whilst Mr Gs initial sick pay was good,  it dropped significantly after three  months. 
And Mr G told us he only had modest savings  to rely such  that he may have had to rely on 
his parents for support.  This PPI policy  couldve covered 10% of Mr Gs monthly  balance  for 
up to 12 months in the event he was too ill to work,  or if he lost his job. So, considering  
Mr Gs means  at the time,  I think the policy would have been useful to Mr G if something 
went wrong. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr G about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But for the same reasons that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4390077