K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr S bought the policy in 2005.  Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Although Mr S says that he took this policy out during  a meeting, but based on everything  
Ive seen, I think its more  likely  than not that this PPI policy was taken out during a 
telephone call.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint because:
Although a call recording or call notes arent available,  Ive considered  what we know  
more widely about how Capital  One sold PPI during  phone  calls around the time this 
policy was taken  out. I havent seen  strong  evidence that Capital One didnt follow 
their normal  sales process during this sale.
On balance, I think that its more likely than not that Capital One made  Mr S aware 
that he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for him. But it did still have to give Mr S good  enough information about  the policy so 
that he could decide if he wanted to take it out.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But Mr S seems to have been eligible for the policy  and doesnt  
appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt cover   and 
based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the policy  couldve been  
useful to him. 
For example, although Mr S has said he had adequate sick pay, the PPI policy  
could have paid out for longer than Mr Ss sick pay  for up to 12 months per claim. 
Mr S also hasnt told us about  any other means  he had to use to make his credit card 
repayments if he was unwell and unable to work  or if he was made unemployed. 
So I dont  think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ss comments,  but these  points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN49715092my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.  
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4971509