K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Ms M payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1998.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Ms Ms comments. However, Ive decided  not to uphold this 
complaint. I will explain  why:
Ms M has said that it was definitely not explained to her that she had a choice about 
taking PPI. However, this did all happen over 20 years ago, and I wouldnt expect 
someone to recall in detail everything  that happened that long ago. And I can see that 
the application form does set out the PPI as a choice, and it said that the insurer  might 
not even agree to give the policy. I can see that Ms M signed to say she wanted PPI. So, 
overall, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude Bank of Scotland acted wrongly in the way 
Ms M believes. I would  need stronger evidence. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Ms M, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Being unable  to 
pay a mortgage  can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at 
the same  time as Ms M received  any employer  sick pay, and potentially  for longer. It 
would have paid unemployment benefits  in addition  to any redundancy pay. And it looks  
as though Ms M didnt have other means to fall back on at the time, to help with the 
mortgage payments.  So this all would have  put Ms M in a more  secure  position,  if shed 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been 
told anything to suggest she couldnt  afford the PPI when she took it out. So I think the 
PPI would have  been potentially useful.  
The monthly price of the policy was shown. So I think Ms M would have understood how 
much it would cost. 
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Ms M would have been  affected by any of these. Its likely she was 
eligible for the policy, and shed be paying for it monthly, so she could cancel it at any 
time without further cost if her situation changed.
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN45528852Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4552885