K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains,  through his solicitors, that Friends Life Limited hasnt paid him all the 
bonuses he is entitled to under his with-profits mortgage endowment  policy and that he 
relied upon the guidance given in the Product Particulars that the likely bonus would bear a 
direct relationship to the future rate of return.
background
Mr W took out an endowment policy in August  1990 which matured  in August 2013 when he 
received £307,618. This was made up of the basic sum assured of £200,000, annual  
bonuses of £67,494 and a terminal bonus  of £40,214.
I have issued two provisional findings  on this complaint. In the first I made the following key 
findings:
What Mr W was entitled to under the terms of the policy  was the guaranteed sum 
assured along  with any annual bonuses added to the policy  and any terminal bonus.
Under the terms of the policy he is entitled to bonuses  declared by Friends  Life after 
it has carried out an investigation into its financial position  and acted on the advice of 
the actuary.
The information I had seen in a document entitled Homebuilder made it reasonably 
clear that the payment of bonuses isnt straightforward or dependent  just on the 
returns made.
The Product Particulars refer to being entitled  to a share of the profit of the Fund  
but also make clear it is for Friends Life to determine what the total profit  is and how 
that is distributed to participating policyholders.
It is still required to treat its customers fairly.
The Illustration  of Future  Returns  within the Product  Particulars  makes  it clear that 
the likely  bonus  is to bear a direct relationship to the future  rate of return, but that this 
was providing the information required by the then regulator,  LAUTRO. And it makes 
clear that the figures quoted comply with the rate of return and other factors which I 
think makes it clear  it isnt just dependent on the rate of return.
The basic sum assured guaranteed  at maturity already allows for some  investment 
return net of tax and account is also taken of future expenses  and the cost of 
providing life cover  under the policy.
The return would have  to be greater than what was allowed for within  the basic  sum 
assured before there  was the possibility of a bonus.
Friends Life has to take account of what guaranteed amounts it has to pay out in any 
given year when  deciding whether to pay an annual bonus and if it decides to pay 
one, the amount.
Consideration also has to be given as to what future returns might  be in subsequent  
years given  once an annual bonus  is added  it cant be taken away.
Because of this, reasonable returns in certain years may only result in small,  or even 
no, bonus payments. 
But the overall returns will still be taken  into account when assessing  the terminal  
bonus rate.
In the documents entitled Your Questions  Answered  it explained  why no annual  
bonuses had been added in recent years and I think this provided a reasonable 
explanation as to why they werent  added.  The calculation of bonus rates is 
complicated and involves actuarial advice amongst other things. Im not satisfied 
Ref: DRN47760922there is any value to me seeing the terminal bonus  calculation as I didnt think  I would 
be able to reach a fair and reasonable finding on whether the rate used was fair.
The solicitors didnt  agree  with my provisional  decision  and I issued a second  provisional 
decision the key findings of which were:
One of the main  points made  by the solicitors  was that I hadnt  commented on the 
deduction of life cover costs.  I am satisfied that Friends  Life was allowed to make 
deductions for charges and expenses from the with profits  fund under the contract  it 
had with Mr W and that it was entitled to charge more  for the cost of life cover 
because of Mr Ws age compared to someone younger.
The £201 the solicitors have referred  to as paying the life cover costs was for the 
decreasing term assurance which together with the sum assured of £200,000 
provided the guaranteed  amount  payable on death  at the outset. 
The amount  of life cover costs Friends Life has indicated have been deducted is 
above the 1% referred to for charges and expenses when the policy  was taken out. 
Friends Life is unable to say whether  the 1% included life cover costs  but it was only 
an estimate anyway.
Based  on the overall evidence Im satisfied  that the decision whether to apply a 
bonus or not isnt just based on life cover costs and expenses.
I dont think Friends Life did limit its explanation as to why there was no bonus, 
because it has; said at various  times  that lower bonuses are directly attributable to 
lower than expected  profit; has referred  to the document Your  Questions Answered 
which provided a comprehensive explanation why no bonuses were  awarded that 
wasnt limited  to life cover costs and expenses;  stated that bonus  levels  depended  on 
various factors and set some of these out.
I dont think Friends Life has acted unreasonably in not disclosing the information Mr 
W has asked for.
Friends Lifes explanation of why it cant provide a valuation of the policy year-on-
year is reasonable.
I dont think it is unreasonable for Friends Life to refuse to provide specific 
calculations how the final bonus  rate of 15% was arrived  at because  it is 
commercially sensitive information.
The calculation of bonus rates is a matter of commercial  judgement  which isnt 
generally appropriate for us to comment on.
The solicitors didnt  agree  with my second  provisional decision and in short  made the 
following points:
I had provided  them with further information presented by Friends Life, but it wasnt 
everything it provided which  was only referred  to in my provisional decision.
Mr W has a clear  recollection he was quoted £201 a month for the life cover of the 
policy, and this was his understanding and no alternative basis  is stated in the 
documentation.
Friends Lifes deduction of additional mortality costs when calculating the terminal  
bonus only came to light in its letter of 22 September  2017.
The ombudsmans finding that the £201 per month paid for life cover only covered  
the amount of £300,000 and there  were  additional life cover  costs for the sum 
assured as well isnt supported  by the documentation and hasnt been put to Mr W 
previously.
Ref: DRN47760923Any person  in Mr Ws position  who received  a quoted premium  for life insurance as 
part of a policy of this nature  would expect the quote  to cover the entire cost of life 
cover in the policy.
The ombudsmans finding suggests  that there was an arrangement to split the cost of 
insurance into a fixed  monthly component that was quoted for and an unfixed  
component to be assessed  at the end of the policy and an ordinary consumer 
wouldnt have  interpreted the documents in such a bizarre  way.
Their  calculations show the additional mortality Friends Life deducted amounted to 
£62,000 which equates to £159  per month in addition to the £201  when a non-
smoker aged 52 now could  get cover  of £500,000 for a fixed  premium  of just over 
£106. So, the £201 easily covered the mortality costs so even if Friends Life were  
entitled to charge additional  mortality costs,  they had no basis for doing so.
Can the ombudsman now confirm he has enough evidence to find that Friends  Life is 
not entitled to make  the level of deductions that it did and require it to provide  details  
of the life insurance expenses  referable  to his contract.
The ombudsman  has referred to why Friends Life didnt apply a bonus, but this is 
wrong as it did apply  a terminal bonus,  so it isnt possible  to understand the 
ombudsmans reasoning  in this part of his findings.
As it explained  previously, Friends Lifes letter of 22 September 2017 is the only 
evidence or explanation of the actual calculation  of the terminal  bonus. This makes  
clear that additional life cover  was charged to his policy  which amounted to 1.5% 
reduction on his return  with a further 1.3%  reduction for other expenses/factors. Can 
the ombudsman comment on the 1.5% reduction without referring  to other  factors 
which have no bearing on that reduction?
The ombudsman  has incorrectly stated that he has to be satisfied that Friends  Life 
acted unreasonably in not disclosing information  when the only requirement is to 
determine the complaint  by reference  to what is fair and reasonable.
Mr W has never asked for valuation of the policy  but instead  has asked for a 
valuation of the fund and a valuation of its annual returns  which it should be 
straightforward for Friends Life to provide.
The ombudsman  has said calculations of the terminal bonus  are commercially 
sensitive and it is concerning he thinks it is fair and reasonable  to encourage 
companies to keep  their customers in the dark with respect to basic information that 
impacts customers lives.
The cost of life insurance isnt commercially sensitive and if it has been overcharging 
it can have no basis for keeping this confidential.
The ombudsman  could receive the calculation confidentially which  is what  would be 
fair and reasonable and what we have  done in other cases.
Mr W is prepared  to agree to keep the information confidential  from third parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not persuaded that I should depart from the main findings in my 
provisional decisions or change my overall  decision that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
I note that the solicitors  have said that Mr W has a clear recollection  that he was quoted 
£201 for the life cover. But memories from so long ago are unlikely to be accurate or 
complete so I dont  think this is persuasive  evidence he was misled in some  way.
Ref: DRN47760924Im satisfied it is more likely than not that the amount payable  for the DTA was £201 so, if 
this figure  was mentioned to him, I think it will have been in relation to this -  I also think  the 
documents in this complaint support my finding  on this point.
I have only seen blank  plan illustrations, but I think it is more  likely than not that Mr W 
wouldve received  an illustration based on the blank copy I have seen. This document  
includes calculations of possible future benefits based on rates  of return set by LAUTRO of 
10.5% and 7%, and states:
 
The premium used for these calculations is £ xxxx per month/year which excludes the part 
of the premium which relates  to the Reducing  Temporary  Sum Assured and (if selected) 
Accident Benefits.
I think this makes it reasonably clear  that any calculation of possible future benefits was 
more likely than not based on the premium less the costs of the reducing temporary sum 
assured  in other words  the DTA. 
Given this I think it is more  likely  than not the figure of £942.50 used in the product 
particulars to calculate possible future  returns is the amount of the premium less the costs  of 
the DTA. I think this is reinforced by the wording in the product particulars:  
The premium used for these calculations is £942.50 per month which  excludes  the part of 
the premium which relates  to the additional guaranteed  death benefit.
The description of the Homebuilder plan is as follows:
Homebuilder is a combination of a with-profits endowment assurance for a basic  
guaranteed sum assured (which is increased by bonuses) and a reducing temporary 
assurance which together provide  your guaranteed minimum death benefit.
I think the wording of the documents   in particular, the use of the word additional in the 
product particulars - makes it clear that the £201 was related to the DTA.
I have not suggested that the life cover costs for the endowment  were  assessed at the end 
of the term. The life cover costs wouldve  been deducted from the premium on an ongoing 
basis, as would generally be the case for a plan that included life cover.
I note the solicitors have  suggested that the additional cost of life cover was £159 each 
month in addition to the £201 for the DTA and says there is no justification for the amount 
charged. 
But this is not the cost of life cover, it is the difference  in return  as a result of the additional 
cost of life cover  these  are not the same thing.  I have  seen  no persuasive evidence  that 
Friends Life have made deductions  that it wasnt entitled to make  or has paid Mr W less than 
he is entitled to.
As for the documents that Mr W has asked Friends Life to provide, I have little to add to the 
findings I have  previously made. The solicitors  have said that I was wrong to say that I have 
to be satisfied that Friends Life had acted unreasonably  in not disclosing information, and 
Ref: DRN47760925that what I had to decide is if it had acted fairly and reasonably. Im not sure there is a real 
distinction but for the avoidance  of doubt  I think it acted fairly and reasonably  in not 
disclosing this information.
I note that the solicitors  are concerned that I found  that Friends Life didnt need to disclose 
its calculation of the terminal bonus  and have referred to this as basic  information.  But I dont 
agree this is basic information. I accept what Friends Life has said about this being  
commercially sensitive  information and I am not going to ask it to provide this to Mr W. 
I note the solicitors have  said that I could receive  this information confidentially which they 
say is what our service has done  in other  cases. It hasnt provided details of these other 
cases where we have asked for the calculation,  but Im not bound by what  we have done in 
another case and Im not persuaded that this information would help me reach  a fair and 
reasonable decision in this case.
The solicitors have  pointed out that I wrongly  referred to why Friends  Life didnt apply  a 
bonus and point to the fact that the complaint is about the amount of the terminal bonus. But 
I made  clear  that what I was referring  to was what the solicitors  had said about Friends Life 
limiting its explanation for the bonus  to be applied to just the cost of life cover and expenses.  
The solicitors had no difficulty in providing  a response to what  I had to say about  this and 
explaining why they didnt  agree with me.  
In summary  Mr W and his solicitors have provided  detailed arguments why they believe 
Friends Life has done something wrong in calculating  the terminal  bonus. And I 
acknowledge that Mr W has strong feelings  about  this. But I have  seen no evidence that 
persuades me that it is more likely than not that Friends Life did anything wrong when 
calculating the terminal bonus.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above  and in my provisional 
decisions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 December  2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4776092