K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that BUPA Insurance Limited didnt make it clear  to him that he would need  
to repay  money  it had spent on his medical treatment if he received compensation from a 
third party. 
background
Mr S was injured at work.  He made a claim under a group private  medical insurance policy 
for medical  treatment, which BUPA accepted. 
A few years later, Mr S made a legal  claim against  his employer for compensation. He then 
found out that hed need  to repay  BUPA the money it had spent on his treatment  if his claim 
for compensation was successful. 
Mr Ss claim was successful, however he accepted  a reduced settlement. He asked BUPA if 
it would  accept a reduced payment, but BUPA refused. Unhappy with this, and that BUPA  
didnt make him aware from the outset  that hed need to repay its costs if he made  a 
successful legal claim, Mr S brought  a complaint to this service.   
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought  BUPA was entitled  
to ask Mr S to repay  the amount it had spent  on his medical treatment.
Mr S has asked  for an ombudsmans decision,  so the matter has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy says:
When  you claim  for treatment you need  because of an injury or medical condition  that was 
caused by or was the fault of someone  else (a third party), for example, an injury  suffered in 
a road accident  in which you are a victim, all of the following conditions apply when you 
make such  a claim:
you agree you are responsible for the payment of any costs which may ultimately be 
recovered from the third party
you must notify us as soon as possible that your treatment was needed as a result  of 
a third party. You can notify us either  by writing to us or completing the appropriate 
section on your claim form.  You must provide us with any further details that we 
reasonably ask you for
you must take any reasonable steps  we ask of you to recover from the third party the 
cost of the treatment  paid for by us and claim interest if you are entitled to do so
you (or your solicitor) must keep us fully informed in writing of the progress  and 
outcome of your claim
if you recover the cost of any treatment paid for by us, you must repay the amount 
and any interest to us.
Ref: DRN44286092Mr S says he was very upfront with BUPA that his injury happened at work,  but at no point 
was he told that the cost of his treatment may need  to be repaid. He says that if hed known  
this, he may have had his treatment under the NHS.
Whilst I understand Mr S told BUPA his injury happened at work when he first claimed  under 
the policy, BUPA didnt  know at this time that Mr Ss employer  was at fault for the injury, or 
that Mr S intended to make a legal claim  for compensation against  his employer. I would 
have only expected BUPA to bring  the clause relating  to third party claims to his attention 
when it became aware of this. 
When BUPA  was told of this, it says it advised  Mr S in a letter  dated  23 January 2017  that he 
would need to include the cost of his medical treatment in his legal claim, and also advised  
him of the policy rules  relating  to third party claims (which Ive quoted above). 
I havent seen  the letter  dated  23 January  2017,  but I have seen BUPAs correspondence  
with Mr Ss solicitor. I see that his solicitor completed a questionnaire for BUPA on 18 May 
2017 and confirmed they would include the medical expenses  BUPA  had paid for within 
Mr Ss legal claim. 
BUPA and Mr Ss solicitor corresponded quite  regularly  after this. The solicitor asked BUPA 
to keep it updated of its outlay  so those figures could be included in Mr Ss legal claim. 
BUPA sent the solicitor regular  correspondence  about this. 
Im satisfied from the correspondence  Ive seen that Mr Ss solicitor (who acted on Mr Ss 
behalf) understood that the payments BUPA had made for Mr Ss medical  treatment would 
need to be repaid if the compensation claim was successful. 
Mr S did include the BUPA payments in his legal claim. And although his claim was 
successful, he accepted a reduced  settlement. Mr S asked BUPA if it would accept a 
reduced sum from him, however BUPA refused.  
I appreciate Mr S is disappointed  he needed to repay BUPA its full outlay. However, given  
that the settlement he received exceeded the amount BUPA  paid for his treatment, under the 
policy terms, that means BUPA was entitled to ask him to repay the full amount. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4428609