K821x#15complaint
Miss P says Herts Cash Limited (Herts  Cash)  irresponsibly lent to her. Miss P says the 
loans were unaffordable and she couldnt  meet  essential living expenses.  
background
This complaint is about 20 short-term loans Herts Cash provided to Miss P between 
July 2011 and May 2013. Miss Ps borrowing history for the first ten loans is as follows:
Miss P borrowed a further ten loans between  June 2012 and May 2013.
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Ps complaint  and initially thought  the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. This was later amended to loan seven as the case  was 
reviewed and the second adjudicator didnt think that prior to that there  was sufficient 
evidence to show that Miss P was struggling  to repay her previous borrowing. Herts Cash  
had seen copies  of Miss Ps bank statements at the point of each borrowing and there 
wasnt anything in them that would have given the lender cause of concern until loan seven 
when it looked  like Miss P was becoming reliant  on the lending. 
Herts Cash disagreed.  It said there wasnt anything to show  that Miss P was struggling  at 
any time. Miss P had every opportunity to discuss any financial problems she may have  had.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me to decide in my role as 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Herts Cash needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Herts  Cash should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN41380092the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Herts Cash was required to establish  
whether Miss P could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ps complaint. After doing so Ive decided  to uphold 
the complaint  in part. Ill explain why. 
Further to the adjudicators amended opinion that the complaint should be upheld from loan 
seven rather than four, neither party has provided any comment  for me to consider. So I 
assume there isnt any outstanding disagreement about this so will not decide on those  
loans in this decision. But I have borne them in mind  for the purposes of this decision as they 
form part of the overall  lending  taken  by Miss P. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Herts Cashs lending history with Miss P, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Herts Cash should reasonably have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, Herts Cash  should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ps case I think  that this point  was reached by 
loan seven. I say this because:
At this point Herts  Cash ought  to have realised Miss P was not managing  to repay  
her loans  sustainably.  Miss P had taken out seven loans within  eight months. She 
was borrowing soon  after repaying her previous loan (and in two cases  she had 
overlapping loans which were increasing her monthly payments). So Herts  Cash  
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Miss P was having  to borrow  
further to cover  the hole repaying  her previous loans was leaving in her finances and 
that Miss Ps indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Miss Ps first loan was for £100  and loan seven  was for £128  the amounts 
borrowed werent reducing.  At this point Herts Cash ought to have known that 
Miss P was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary  shortfall in her income  but to                
meet an ongoing  need. 
Ref: DRN41380093Miss P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount  she owed Herts Cash.  Loan  20 
was taken out 22 months after Miss Ps first. Miss P had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Herts  Cash over an extended  period.
I also think that Miss P lost out because Herts  Cash continued to provide borrowing from 
loan seven onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ps indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Miss P borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Miss Ps ability to access  mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, like the adjudicator Im also upholding the complaint about loans seven to 20 and Herts 
Cash should put things right.
putting things right  what Herts Cash  needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss P paid on loans seven to 20;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan seven onwards means  any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So, all entries  about  loans  seven to 20 should be removed 
from Miss Ps credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Herts Cash to take off tax from this interest. Herts Cash  
must give Miss P a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ps complaint.  Herts Cash Ltd 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2020.  
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4138009