K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading  as Halifax) didnt do enough  to 
help them manage repayment of their overdraft.
background
Mr and Mrs C had an overdraft with Halifax. Overdraft charges meant the amount they owed 
Halifax was increasing,  and they were  struggling  to repay what  they owed.
Mr and Mrs C say Halifax agreed  to freeze  charges on the account for six months if Mr and 
Mrs C paid £150 towards the overdraft. But after a month charges were  applied to the 
account again.
Mr and Mrs C eventually closed the account  and moved their banking  elsewhere. The 
account defaulted and is now being  managed  by a third part debt collection agency.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  When Mr and Mrs C had 
told Halifax about the financial difficulty they were  experiencing it had reversed  fees of £100, 
refunded other fees of £249.39 and paid £75 in recognition that some of its service  couldve 
been better.  The adjudicator considered this was fair and reasonable.
She didnt  find that Halifax had agreed  to freeze account charges for six months, and she 
was satisfied that the default action Halifax had taken in connection  with the account  was 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the adjudicators  conclusions so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what  Ive seen, Mr and Mrs Cs main complaint is that Halifax didnt do enough to help 
them repay their overdraft when they were experiencing financial difficulty. In particular,  they 
say the bank agreed to freeze  interest and charges for six months if they paid £150  a month 
towards the overdraft  during that time.
Mr and Mrs C also mentioned that their original  overdraft of £1,000 was automatically  
increased to £5,000 some time ago. They wanted  to know whether Halifax  earned any 
commission or bonuses  as a result  of increasing the overdraft.  
Ive seen evidence  to show that the increased  overdraft was available  on Mr and Mrs Cs 
account as far back as 2011. For the purpose of our rules, in general  we can only look at 
complaints about  events  that took place no more than six years  ago (or within  three years of 
the point at which the customer knew, or ought  reasonably to have known,  there was a 
problem).
Mr and Mrs C knew they had an increased overdraft in 2011.  So if they were unhappy with it 
they wouldve  had to complain no later than 2017 for the purpose of our rules. They didnt  
complain about  the increase until 2018,  so its not possible for me to consider the points 
Ref: DRN42311122theyve raised about any commission or bonuses Halifax made when the overdraft was 
increased. 
So for the purpose of this complaint, I will look at what  Halifax  did when it became aware  that 
Mr and Mrs C were struggling  to repay  their overdraft. 
Halifax wrote  to Mr and Mrs C in April 2018 because theyd  gone  over their overdraft limit. It 
asked Mr and Mrs C to contact it so that they could agree a way for the overdraft to be 
repaid. 
Mr C wrote to the bank in May, and contacted it by phone on 23 May 2018. He told Halifax  
the change to its charging structure,  together with the bills he had to cover,  made it difficult 
for him to pay the overdraft charges.
Mr C says Halifax told him it would freeze  interest  and charges on the account, and allow  
him to pay £150  per month towards the overdraft  during that time.  Ive noted everything  Mr C 
has told me.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure exactly what was discussed  between Mr C and 
Halifax at the time. But Halifax has provided  its notes of all the contact it had with Mr C, and 
Ive considered those  carefully. The notes from 23 May say:
- set up an arrangement  for £150cust mentioned that he had sent an I&E yesterday, adv 
cust to go thru I&E now to get account sorted.  Cust agreedDEF: -£507.49-offered NO 
OFFERBS Hold 30 Days, temporary  T82. Adv cust to give us a call before  the 30-Day 
hold expires. Agreed.
Mr C contacted Halifax again on 23 July 2018  because charges were  being applied to the 
account again. The banks notes say:
call on 23/5/18. I&E showed deficit of £500+ so we couldnt have given repayment plan of 
£150pmcollections should have  enforced the closure process  on 23/5/18  and ben of doubt 
confusing info given  that gave impression £150  repayment plan was given
From what  Ive seen, it seems Halifax accepted it may have given Mr C the impression in 
May 2018 that a repayment plan of £150  per month  had been  set up while interest and 
charges were frozen.
But Mr Cs income and expenditure assessment showed a deficit of over £500, so the bank 
wouldnt have agreed the type of repayment  plan Mr C thought  had been  arranged.
When Mr C made contact  in July 2018,  Halifax  refunded £249.39 which  were the fees that 
had been charged after the 30 day freeze  agreed  in May 2018. It also paid £50 
compensation, which it used to reduce  the balance on Mr and Mrs Cs overdraft.
Halifax had also refunded £100 when  Mr C contacted it in May. It had also paid £25 for 
inconvenience because  of the difficulty Mr C had contacting  the bank to discuss  his situation.  
Having considered the evidence, I dont find that Halifax agreed  to freeze interest  and 
charges on Mr and Mrs Cs account for six months from May 2018. I dont find that it set up a 
repayment plan of £150 per month  for six months  either.
Ref: DRN42311123Instead, I think Halifax agreed to freeze interest and charges for 30 days, on the basis  that 
Mr and Mrs C paid £150. It refunded charges of £100 and paid £25 for inconvenience.  I think 
the banks actions were  fair and reasonable when it became aware that Mr and Mrs C were  
experiencing financial difficulty.  
Halifax accepted  that it may have given Mr and Mrs C the impression they had the six month 
repayment plan mentioned above. It refunded charges of £249.39 and paid £50 
compensation. Again, I think that was reasonable. But I dont think Halifax was obliged  to 
offer the six month repayment plan Mr and Mrs C were seeking.
Mr and Mrs C say Halifax didnt give them the opportunity to repay  what  they owed. But I 
note that the bank  wrote to them in September 2018. It said:
Please make a payment  for at least the amount you are overdrawn by 9 October 2018 to 
avoid further action.
This account will be closed two months  after you receive  this letter  if you do not make a 
payment of the full balance or the amount you are overdrawn, or come  to an arrangement 
with us.
If you account remains in arrears then we may register a Default and instruct a debt 
collection agency to recover the debt and/or take legal  proceedings against you.
So from what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs C notice of the position  on 
their account, and the action that would  be taken if they didnt manage to repay what  they 
owed or come to an arrangement with the bank.
Mr and Mrs C didnt manage  to fulfil the banks requirements for repayment so the account  
was defaulted.  Im not persuaded  that Halifaxs actions were unreasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs C have mentioned during the course of the complaint that they approached 
Halifax about a loan to clear their overdraft, and also asked about  re-mortgaging. They  say 
the bank turned them down for both.
Halifax has said it doesnt have any formal records of these requests, and Mr and Mrs C 
cant remember when these discussions took place. So without anything else to support 
what Mr and Mrs C have told me, I dont think I can safely  say that Halifax  has wrongly  
turned down requests they may have made for alternative means of paying off the overdraft.
I am obviously sympathetic to the position  Mr and Mrs C are in. But Im not persuaded that 
Halifax needs to do anything in addition to the refunds and compensation payments it has 
already made.
Ref: DRN42311124my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4231112