K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that U K Insurance Business  Solutions Limited  (UKIBS) gave him misleading  
information when  he bought a commercial buildings insurance policy, which resulted in his 
property being  under-insured.
background
In February 2018,  Mr L took out a buildings insurance policy  through  UKIBS  to cover two 
commercial properties  he owns.  In April 2018  a fire broke out at one of the properties 
(property A) causing significant damage  to it. So Mr L made a claim on his policy.
The insurer  and underwriter of the policy (Company D) sent a loss adjuster to inspect the 
damage at property A. They  estimated  the cost of rebuilding the property (the value  at risk)  
to be £842,856. Mr L also instructed his own surveyor who concluded  that the cost of the 
repair to property A, excluding surveyors fees and VAT, would be £382,258.
Company D considered the claim and said that due to Mr Ls property only being insured  up 
to £350,000, itd been under  insured.  It accepted the claim but settled it proportionately. So 
Mr L only received part of the maximum limit at an amount of £187,154.  
Mr L didnt think this was fair and he complained  to UKIBS. He said when he took the policy 
out over the phone, UKIBS agreed with how hed calculated the reinstatement valuation. 
Mr L felt hed been misadvised and misguided  by UKIBS. So he said the claim should be 
paid in full.
UKIBS said it was satisfied it had been  made it clear to Mr L, that if he provided any incorrect  
information, the claim may be paid in part or not paid at all. It said Mr L had arrived at the 
rebuild figures of his own accord, and without any advice as it was a non-advised sale.  
UKIBS also said Company Ds terms and conditions were clear  and that Mr L had a 14 day 
cooling off period where he could cancel the policy  without incurring a charge.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service and our investigator upheld  it. She said Mr L hadnt 
been given enough information on the sales call to explain what a rebuild cost is and what  it 
includes. And she thought UKIBS misled Mr L into thinking the rebuild  cost would be less 
than the market value and that it offered him assurance that he had peace of mind he was 
covered. 
UKIBS disagreed  and said parts of the sales call had been taken out of context. It accepted  
it told Mr L the rebuild cost is usually less than the market  value,  but it said this was on the 
back of Mr L first providing a figure of what he thought the rebuild cost was. It also disagreed  
that it shouldve  given any further  information  about what costs  a rebuild figure should 
include as this would be considered advice  which  isnt permitted in a non-advised sale. 
As a resolution wasnt agreed, the case was passed  to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision on this complaint in January 2020.  In it I said:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend 
to uphold Mr Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN41382972Ill start by saying that the figure of £187,154 that Company D has already  agreed to pay 
towards Mr Ls total claim isnt in dispute  in this case. What is in dispute is the remaining 
balance of the claim that sits above  this figure, which Company D says it wont pay 
because Mr L was under insured. 
But Mr L says UKIBS is responsible for this under insurance because of the misleading  
information it gave  him when he bought the policy. So he thinks it should compensate him 
the outstanding balance  of his claim that Company  D hasnt agreed to pay. But UKIBS 
disagrees.
UKIBS say that Mr Ls policy  was sold to him on a non-advised  basis. What this means  is 
that it shouldnt  have offered him any advice  or recommendation to buy the policy.  But it did 
have to give him enough information that was clear, fair and not misleading  so that he 
could make an informed  choice about whether the policy was right for him. 
It follows that my starting point in this case is to consider whether UKIBS  met these 
requirements, so Ive listened to the sales call to help me decide.  To be clear,  Ill only 
reference the parts of the call that I think are relevant  to my decision.
The call handler asks Mr L whether he has the buildings sum insured figures, and then 
corrects this to the rebuild cost. Mr L responds  by asking  where  he could find this 
information. The call handler goes on to say that it can usually  be obtained in surveys, 
mortgage documents or via a rebuild cost calculator that can be found by searching  online. 
They say that the rebuild  cost is needed  to complete the quotation.
Mr L responds by saying that the sum insured figure  was £560,000 with his previous 
insurer. The call handler asks if that was for both properties and Mr L replies saying hes 
unsure. He then starts to look through his paperwork  to see if he can find the rebuild cost 
information but is unable to locate  any documentation  containing  this figure.
Mr L explains this to the call handler and says he doesnt think  the rebuild cost will be more 
than £600,000. The call handler then says the amount would need to be split in two 
because Mr L has two separate  premises.  Mr L says he would estimate £350,000 for 
property A as its the larger  of the two, and £250,000 for the other property (property  B).
Mr L goes on to say, the properties are worth in the region of £600,000 and that he doesnt 
think the rebuild figure will be more than what the property  is worth.  The line becomes a 
little unclear at this point, but from what Ive heard  he finishes this remark with a question, 
asking the call handler something along  the lines of will it? or is it?
The call handler responds by saying No, no, because usually the rebuild cost is less than 
the market value because obviously with the market value youre paying for the land as 
well.  Mr L responds by saying  yeah, well there  you go then. And the call handler says 
 So yeah, we can leave it at that and then youll  have the peace  of mind that youre 
definitely covered  then. Im satisfied  that Mr L asked a question of UKIBS and its call 
handler answered it by giving him reassurance that hed be covered.  
Mr L then goes on to say  Yeah, do more,  because  at the end of the day, look, the 
reason this is for, is if something happens,  I dont want to be in the situation where The 
call handler then interjects before Mr L finishes his sentence and says  youre not 
covered. Yeah, yeah, I understand that, thats  no problem. After a series  of further 
questions, the call handler then sells Mr L the policy.
Ref: DRN41382973Customers arent usually  experienced in calculating rebuild costs, so when considering if 
UKIBS met its obligations, Ive thought about whether it clearly asked for the information it 
wanted to know  regarding the rebuild  figure.  This includes looking at whether it pointed 
Mr L in the right direction to reach an accurate rebuild cost, highlighted the significance of 
this figure,  and whether it told him whats  usually included  in it.
UKIBS asked Mr L what the rebuild cost was and directed him to where he might find it  
but ultimately, thats as far as it went. It didnt  provide any further information on what  it 
might include  such as debris removal; architects, surveyors  and consultants costs, legal 
fees and VAT; and the additional cost of complying with government  requirements.
All these  costs could  have  a significant bearing on the total rebuild cost  especially with a 
commercial property. They also paint  a much clearer  picture of what a rebuild cost 
includes. And I think it was particularly important in this case, that UKIBS  made Mr L aware 
of this information, as it was clear, very early on, that he didnt  know  what  a rebuild cost 
was. So its likely hed also be unaware of what it includes. 
I dont agree that explaining more about this would constitute as advice. I say this because 
Mr L actively asked the call handler  what a rebuild cost was. UKIBS  didnt  have to give 
Mr L an answer that related to his property  specifically.  But it should have a clear 
understanding of what  this figure  encompasses more generally,  and it had a responsibility 
to give a clear and accurate answer  to Mr Ls question. 
Im satisfied it couldve better explained the rebuild cost without providing any personal 
recommendation to Mr L about his policy. But it failed to do this, so Im not satisfied it 
answered Mr Ls question  in a clear  or fair way. As a result, he proceeded to base the 
rebuild figure  solely on the assumption  that it was unlikely  to be more  than the market  
value of his properties. 
In some cases, this assumption may be a fair and accurate one. By its own admission 
UKIBS says that the rebuild  cost is usually less than the market  value. And that this is often  
supported by information Mr L couldve  found  if hed searched on the internet. So when  
Mr L questioned  the call handler  about  this, I accept that technically,  it wasnt wrong for 
them to make Mr L aware of the general  assumption  on market value and rebuild figures.
But this assumption  isnt accurate in every case. And UKIBS should  arguably be more  
aware of this risk, as its dealing with issues of this nature on a regular basis.  So its my 
opinion that UKIBS  should also have made this point explicitly  clear to Mr L, while  also 
explaining why.
I say this because,  given  the potential ramifications of being under insured, and the fact it 
was a non-advised sale, Mr L shouldve had all the facts and been given clear information 
to make informed choices about  this policy. If UKIBS had met this obligation  and Mr L still 
decided to buy the policy  knowing his calculations might not be accurate and the impact 
of this, then I mightve thought differently about  the outcome of this case.
But that didnt  happen. Instead, Im satisfied the call handler gave agreement to Mr Ls 
question about  rebuild costs, which in turn gave  him a level of assurance from UKIBS, that 
he was sufficiently insuring his property for loss by basing it on market value. 
Ref: DRN41382974This was strengthened  by another  statement  the call handler made about Mr L having the 
peace of mind he was definitely covered. I dont think the call handler could fairly  or 
reasonably make this statement based  on the information Mr L had given about how he 
was calculating the rebuild cost. And again,  this was misleading.
It follows that based on what Ive seen so far in this case, Im persuaded that UKIBS  failed 
to provide information to Mr L that was clear, fair and not misleading,  and that this led to 
property A being  under  insured. It follows that I intend to uphold  Mr Ls complaint.
Ive considered all of UKIBS comments and points, including what its said about Mr L 
having a previous policy with Company D for property A, which  had a higher rebuild cost 
than what was submitted  for this policy. 
This is discussed near the end of the sales call, when, after coming across some  
paperwork, Mr L told the call handler that the last time he had a policy  with Company D the 
rebuild figure  was £625,000. By Mr L flagging  this previous cover, it could be argued he 
was taking steps to make  sure he had the right amount of cover this time round. Otherwise 
I fail to see why else hed mention this. 
So Ive thought about how the call handler  dealt with this. And their response was okay 
thats fine, well quote you on the information weve got and then take it from there.  At this 
point, they became aware that hed previously been insured for a higher amount. And they 
didnt probe or question it any further. Instead they proceeded to sell the policy without  
taking this into account.
I think this was another missed opportunity, where  UKIBS couldve interjected to ensure  
Mr L was satisfied he was giving correct information,  and that he knew the potential impact  
of it being wrong.  Mr L brought the difference in rebuild cost to the call handlers attention. 
And by them  not re-visiting it, it arguably placed  no importance on the significance  of the 
point hed raised. 
It follows that if the call handler  didnt  see any point  in exploring why the previous policy 
was higher, Im not persuaded Mr L  someone  who clearly wasnt sure about  rebuild  costs  
in the first place, shouldve therefore  thought it important to do so either. So this point 
doesnt change  my provisional  conclusion.
UKIBS has asked this service to consider the context of the call. And in doing  so, whats  
clear to me, is that Mr L wasnt sure about  several  important parts of information he was 
being asked to give during the call, yet UKIBS proceeded to sell him a policy anyway. 
A non-advised sale doesnt negate UKIBS from any responsibility when selling a policy.  
Considering whats  fair and reasonable in this case,  I think  it shouldve  provided much 
clearer information as Ive already set out above  or it shouldve stopped the call and 
asked Mr L to get back in touch  with it when he could be more certain of the information he 
was providing. 
On balance, Im persuaded at this stage  that by UKIBS not doing what  it shouldve  done in 
this case, Mr L has been  left without enough cover  for property A. And UKIBS  point about 
the context of the call doesnt change my provisional  conclusion for the reasons Ive 
explained.
Ref: DRN41382975my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint. Where  I uphold a 
complaint, that was referred to us before 1 April 2019 (but on or after 1 January 2012) I can 
award fair compensation to be paid by a financial business of up to £150,000 plus any 
interest and/or costs/  interest on costs  that I consider  appropriate. If I think  that fair 
compensation is more  than £150,000  I may recommend that the business pays  the 
balance.
It follows I intend to direct  U K Insurance Business Solutions Limited to compensate Mr L to 
the value of £150,000.  
Im aware the total value of the outstanding claim thats not yet been paid, or agreed  to be 
paid in this case, is more  than £150,000.  So I also intend to recommend  that U K Insurance 
Business Solutions  Limited compensates Mr L the total cost of the outstanding balance of 
the claim that sits above the amount Ive directed in this decision also.
This recommendation is not part of my intended  determination or award. U K Insurance  
Business Solutions  Limited doesnt  have  to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr L 
can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance.  Mr L may want to get 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any future final decision.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and evidence theyd like me to 
consider before I made  my final decision on this complaint. Both Mr L and UKIBS confirmed 
theyd received the provisional decision. 
Mr L said he doesnt accept it because the maximum  amount I can direct UKIBS  to pay in 
this case is less than the amount of compensation hes looking for, so he will likely look to 
pursue the case  in court at a later stage.  And UKIBS says it has nothing  further  to add and 
will await  the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKIBS hasnt provided anything else for me to consider.  But Im aware  Mr L doesnt  accept 
the provisional decision because the maximum award I can direct  in this case  is less than 
the total compensation hes looking for  he thinks UKIBS should be made to pay more.  
But under the rules  set out for us by the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA), I cant direct 
UKIBS to pay any more  than what Ive set out in my provisional decision. So these points 
dont change my conclusion.
So it follows  that after considering Mr Ls comments,  my findings on this case remain  
unchanged. And for the reasons  set out in my provisional decision, UKIBS should resolve 
the matter by compensating Mr L as set out below.
Ref: DRN41382976my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Where I uphold  a complaint, that was 
referred to us before 1 April 2019  (but on or after 1 January 2012) I can award fair 
compensation to be paid by a financial business of up to £150,000 plus any interest and/or 
costs/ interest on costs that I consider appropriate.  If I think that fair compensation is more 
than £150,000 I may recommend that the business pays  the balance.
It follows that I direct U K Insurance Business  Solutions Limited to compensate  Mr L to the 
value of £150,000. 
Im aware the total value of the outstanding claim thats not yet been paid, or agreed  to be 
paid in this case, is more  than £150,000.  So I also recommend that U K Insurance  Business 
Solutions Limited compensates Mr L at an amount of the total cost of the outstanding 
balance of the claim that sits above  the amount  Ive directed in this final decision also. This 
recommendation is not part of my determination or award. U K Insurance  Business Solutions 
Limited doesnt have  to do what  I recommend.  
Its unlikely that Mr L can accept my final decision and go to court to ask for the balance.  
Mr L may want  to get independent legal advice before  deciding  whether to accept my final 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my final decision before 21 March  2020.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4138297