K821x#15complaint
Mr W says the advice  given and the arrangements made by Insight Financial Associates 
Limited (Insight) to switch his personal  pension funds into a Family Pension Trust (FPT) with 
Rowanmoor and to facilitate investment  in overseas property  was unsuitable.
Mr W is represented by Complaints SOS  Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs W received  advice about their pension  arrangements from Insight at the same  
time. And as Ill set out in more detail later, the outcome  for both was connected. But for the 
purposes of this decision, Ill focus primarily on Mr W. His wife has brought a separate  
complaint which  is being  dealt with on its own merits.
The contemporaneous information available about Mr Ws circumstances and objectives  at 
the time of the events complained about is limited.  I can see he was 46, married and was a 
self-employed builder. He was a basic rate tax-payer  and resident  in the UK. Mr W had a 
personal pension  with Zurich which hed built up over nearly 20 years. It was worth  around 
£37,000.
It seems  Mr and Mrs W became aware of the possibility of buying into an overseas property  
development in Cape  Verde through an individual called Mr R. He worked for a mortgage 
broker company and also appears to have been an agent for The Resort  Group  (TRG). 
Mr R informed Mr and Mrs W about  the proposal.  But while Ive seen various brochures and 
presentations that were available at the time about the Cape Verde development,  I dont 
know how fulsome, accurate or clear the information  they were given was. From  the 
paperwork it seems they didnt visit the site.
Its clear Mr W was interested in the Cape Verde prospect.  Ive seen the reservation  form he 
signed on 29 August  2009  for an apartment  indicating hed pay 45% of the contract price up 
front. The form indicated the source of the funding would be a self-invested personal  pension 
(SIPP).
Mr R knew Mr and Mrs W required regulated retirement planning advice. So, they were  
introduced to Insight  in 2009. This led to Mr W agreeing  to switch his personal  pension into 
an FPT (a type of SIPP, providing  a single pension wrapper for him and his wife). And this 
enabled him to invest with TRG in overseas property.
Mr Ws Zurich  pension had a transfer value of around £34,000.  The switch into his FPT was 
made on 22 February 2010.  Mrs Ws pension funds  had also been moved across.  So, on 26 
February 2010, payment of just under £34,000  was made to TRG from their FPT cash  
account, representing their investment in the Cape Verde development.
Mr W told us that he became aware there  might  be a problem with his FPT and the switch  of 
his personal pension when he employed  a new financial  adviser  in 2017. It informed him the 
advice Insight had provided wasnt suitable.
Ref: DRN43493412Insight says it didnt  give Mr W advice about the investment in overseas property. It says 
hed already made that decision and its role had simply been to identify a SIPP provider to 
satisfy his objectives. It had made him aware  of the risks he was being  exposed to. And it 
said because Mr W was the director of a commercial property company, he had sufficient 
knowledge of the particular asset  class he was investing in.
Insight also said that Mr W had a close association with Mr R, both being directors  in two 
companies. And it asserts this close relationship and the fact that Mr R was an agent of TRG 
wouldve influenced his decision  to invest irrespective of the advice it gave.
Insight also believes Mr W brought his case too late because he ought to have been aware 
of cause for concern about his investment more than three years prior to April 2018, when 
he first lodged  his complaint.
The adjudicator, and later separately an ombudsman,  concluded  that this Service  could 
consider the merits  of Mr Ws case because hed brought  it on time. An investigator then 
upheld his complaint identifying failings  with Insights advice and arrangements.  Insight 
disagreed and so Mr Ws case has been  passed  to me for a decision.
Our jurisdiction to consider Mr Ws complaint
The rules  about  complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. Insight has previously disputed this Services jurisdiction to consider Mr Ws 
case. Its made arguments  that he made his complaint too late.
The Dispute Resolution rules (DISP) which  determine which complaints can be considered  
by this Service are set out in the regulators handbook. The rules include time limits by which 
complaints must be made. The DISP rule in this case is DISP 2.8.2. It says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b)three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limitswas the 
result of exceptional circumstances
Its not in dispute  the event - the advice in 2009 for Mr W to switch his pension funds into a 
FPT enabling the investment in overseas property - took place more  than six years  before he 
first complained in April 2018. But Insight says he also became aware, or ought reasonably 
to have become  aware, of cause to complain more than three  years  prior to this.
Another ombudsman  has already investigated whether we have  jurisdiction for Mr Ws case  
and concluded  we do have authority to consider it. Ive reviewed the position again and I 
wont be rehearsing all the arguments  shes already made, but Ive reached the same 
conclusion.
Ref: DRN43493413Insight has raised the issue  of Mr and Mrs W consolidating  their interests  in Cape Verde in 
March 2015, saying that this shouldve made  them aware there was a problem with the 
investment. It said this process  wouldve required them to sign new legal documents.  It says 
at this point they shouldve  asked  questions as to the reasons for having to alter the original 
agreement and about what the implications  of holding a fractional share in an apartment  
were.
In the circumstances of Mr Ws case I dont think Insight has a telling argument here. I 
understand TRG clients were informed about certain  options  for financing the residual 
balance of their investments, some of which were  ruled out a few years later. But I dont 
think dealing  with the financing due on his property in 2014  which appears was resolved to 
Mr Ws satisfaction through consolidation of his and his wifes investment with nothing  further 
to pay - wouldve alerted  him to the problem hes raised now.
Insight also noted  Mr Ws Cape Verde  property was completed late and that when rental 
income did come on stream this was less than suggested in the presentations made to 
customers. Ive no doubt  that these matters wouldve been a disappointment to him. But I 
think he knew he was making a long-term investment and so accepted  there would be a few 
bumps in the road. After  all, he was 46 and according to the fact-find didnt  expect to retire 
until he was 75.
Im satisfied Mr W had cause for complaint following commentary provided by his new 
financial adviser in 2017. This concluded  the advice Insight had given him to switch  his 
personal pension  had been flawed.  He raised his concerns in April 2018, so well within  the 
three-year time limit. And I cant see anything  on file that makes me think he knew or ought 
reasonably to have  known  there couldve been problems with his pension  arrangements  
before this.
So, Mr W has made his complaint in time and I can consider it. This rest of my decision will 
focus on the merits of his case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Wheres theres conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties  have provided information and argument about the events complained  about.  
Ive not provided  a detailed response  to all the points raised. Thats deliberate;  ours is an 
informal service  for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. 
While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings 
on what I think is relevant and at the heart  of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mr Ws case?
The first thing I considered is the extensive regulation  around  transactions  like those 
performed by Insight  for Mr W. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook).  These include:
Ref: DRN43493414-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence
-Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise  and control  its 
affairs responsibly and effectively,  with adequate risk management systems
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated  firms like Insight. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding this case.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must  obtain  the necessary information  regarding: 
the consumers  knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial  situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone  has switched their personal pension,  I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants  or 
needs reasonable? And so, should  the adviser have recommended  the switch?
Each case is different,  but Id expect the switch to be in Mr Ws best interests  to make the 
advice suitable.  And in this regard, Id expect  to see a clear and not misleading comparison 
was made  between his old pension and the new one.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial  Services  Authority, 
published a checklist  for pension  switching  that I think is still helpful  today. It highlighted  four 
key issues it thought should be focussed  on:
-Charges - has the consumer been  switched  to a pension that is more expensive  than 
their existing  one(s) or a stakeholder  pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include  the loss of ongoing  contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits  early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs.  For 
example, in January 2013 it issued  an industry alert which said:
Ref: DRN43493415It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to [SIPPs] that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid  unregulated  investments
Financial advisers  using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate  out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated  elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
Although  the alert was issued after the advice given to Mr W, it wasnt new guidance;  it was 
the regulator re-stating its position.
did Insight adhere  to the regulatory requirements placed  on it when advising on and making 
arrangements for the switch of Mrs Ws personal  pension?
In short,  I dont think Insight met the regulatory  requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
Insight had to obtain information  from Mr W in order to understand essential facts  about him. 
In order to advise  him to switch his personal  pension into the FPT with Rowanmoor and 
facilitate investment in the Cape Verde development, it had to believe that:
-The service or recommended transaction met Mr Ws investment objectives 
(including his attitude  to risk, the purpose of investing and how long he wanted  to 
invest for).
-Mr W was able to financially withstand the investment risks.
-Mr W had the necessary experience or knowledge  to understand the risks involved.
My starting point is to make a general  observation  about the paucity of information available  
to Insight at the point  it gave advice to Mr W. The approach and poor process followed by its 
adviser has impeded it mounting  a credible, reasoned and weighty argument in defence of 
what happened in this case.
From reading the case file, I cant see that Insight ever put itself into a position where it could  
meet its obligations. For example, the fact-find which  appears  to have been completed on 16 
September 2009 is sparsely populated. Where there are gaps, the following statement is 
typical of what can be found:
Not disclosed
Ref: DRN43493416Of the little information  we can glean,  its recorded Mr W was 46 and married. He was a self-
employed builder and his tax-rate was 20%.
Insight didnt obtain information  about  whether Mr W had any financial dependents.  The 
sections about  his income, expenditure, assets and liabilities are blank. There  are no details 
about whether  he had any insurances  or protections. On retirement planning its recorded he 
wanted to stop working when he reached  the age of 75. But theres no information about  
what his capital and income requirements  might be at that point.  Sections  about  Mr Ws 
health and inheritance planning are also incomplete.  
I think because the information Insight derived from the fact-find  was seriously  deficient  it 
provided a precarious  base from which to offer advice about such an important transaction  
that is the switching of Mr Ws personal pension fund into a FPT with Rowanmoor to facilitate 
investment in overseas property.
The same problem arises  in relation to details captured  about  Mrs W. This is especially 
significant in this case because the pension arrangement recommended was the joint-SIPP 
and so understanding the finances of both her and her husband  wouldve been  important to 
the utility and operation of the pension vehicle chosen.
I can see Mr W was asked about his general  financial objectives.  He was given a number of 
statements and asked  to rank them in terms of priority from 1 (highest) to 5 (lowest). His 
highest priority was to maintain  his standard of living in retirement. And the next matter  in his 
list of priorities was investment planning. In the notes section its recorded Mr W wanted to 
fund buying overseas property.
As Ill conclude, Insight appears  to have focussed on Mr Ws wants and facilitating  those, at 
the expense of the priorities he indicated  and the needs he had.
Mr Ws attitude to risk was assessed  as medium to high. The definition indicated  this meant 
he was prepared to invest his capital in more  volatile markets, with the potential for higher 
returns. Theres a significant problem with this exercise conducted by Insight  only the 
summary was completed. The questionnaire,  which wouldve taken him through  14 detailed  
questions where  it wouldve had an opportunity to draw out Mr Ws real outlook through  
discussion, wasnt completed.
I can see that in the financial planning  report (FPR)  it prepared for Mr W dated 30 
September 2009, Insight did give him the following warning:
I have made you aware  that the purchase  of a SIPP and utilising only the investment of a 
commercial property such as your Cape Verde  property will increase the risk level of your 
investment as factors such as the lack of liquidity of the property asset and you have only 
one asset class. You stated this is suitable to fulfil your objective  of purchasing the Cape 
Verde property and are aware  of the associated  risks involved.
Ive thought about this, and the other  warnings Mr W was given in the FPR. The problem for 
Insight is that it undermines these through the additional commentary it provides in the 
report. For example,  immediately after the warning about the specific risks associated  with 
the Cape Verde proposal it says:
Furthermore, your adviser will have  discussed  your risk profile  in more depth and has 
confirmed that you suit this type of investment.
Ref: DRN43493417This is odd, because Insight knew it hadnt got a proper handle  on Mr Ws risk appetite  the 
exercise it had completed was superficial.  It also knew putting  money  into overseas property 
was very high risk, so even if I were to accept the outcome of its assessment  which  I dont 
 the Cape Verde proposal was above his risk outlook. I think it shouldve advised 
accordingly, without  equivocation  and without seeming to reassure  him by referring back  to 
what his unregulated, unqualified adviser is purported to have considered  about the 
investment.
Insight says given  the nature of their business experience, Mr and Mrs W wouldve 
understood the issues around development of commercial properties, regardless of whether 
this was in the UK or overseas. While I recognise  the point its making, it doesnt take into 
account the complex nature of the Cape Verde  transaction, the additional risks associated  
with dealing with third parties, in markets theres  no evidence  they had experience of, and 
the fact that the focus shouldve been retirement  planning. So, I dont find its argument  
telling in this case.
Insight did note the Cape Verde proposal would result in the bulk of Mr Ws funds  being  tied 
up in one asset. But it does nothing to draw this out meaningfully for him. The FCA 
illustration of good practice from 2010  was to allow for perhaps around 5% of someones 
funds to be invested in these sorts of assets  (where they are experienced investors).  The 
proposal on the table consumed 100% of his pension provision - an outcome FCA said was 
bad practice.
 
Im concerned that Mr Ws capacity for loss doesnt appear to have been considered.  His 
personal pension  appears to have been  his only retirement provision. I cant  see, and neither 
could Insight, whether  he had other  assets  to call on. This reinforces my concerns about the 
assessment of his risk outlook and the strategy for investing his funds.
Further, theres a complete absence of consideration  by Insight of Mr Ws previous 
knowledge and experience. This is important, not only in terms of the investments he was 
considering with his pension  funds,  but also in relation  to the pension  vehicle to be selected. 
Ill return to this matter later.
In the FPR Insight produced for Mr W, Insights opening paragraph  said the following:
You were introduced to me from [TRG] with whom  you have purchased a Cape Verde 
commercial property. You have decided  to purchase and fund this through  the 
recommendation of [TRG] via a [FPT]. Both yourself  and your financial adviser  [Mr R] 
have requested my advice and recommendation in only finding the most suitable SIPP 
provider that will enable  you to purchase this property and I can confirm I have not provided 
you with advice or recommendation in relation to the FPT being  the most suitable  vehicle to 
facilitate the property acquisition.
This sets alarm bells ringing for a number of reasons. For example, it is contrary  to what 
Insight actually goes  on to advise:
I have recommended that [your] pensions be transferred, for the following  reasons:
You wish to use your pension fund to purchase an overseas property,  which is something 
that your existing Zurich  contract cannot  facilitate.  In order  to purchase  the property in 
question it is preferably that both of you [Mrs and Mr W] invest  your existing pension 
resources. This can be achieved through a Family Pension Trust contract,
Ref: DRN43493418Its clear Mr W was referred  to Insight for advice about moving his personal  pension to a FPT 
so he could invest in high risk overseas property. Insight knew what he was contemplating, 
but says it wasn't  responsible for the investment advice.
I disagree with the argument Insight makes here. The regulatory position  is clear. It had a 
duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best interests of Mr W. And to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave  was suitable. It couldnt  do this without 
considering the suitability  of the investments it knew were being  proposed.
My conclusion here is supported by the alert issued by the then regulator in January  2013. 
And although the alert was issued after the advice given to Mr W, it wasnt new guidance;  it 
was the regulator re-stating the position.
Insight couldnt  ignore  Mr Ws intention of investing  in overseas property. If it didnt consider 
this to be suitable in his circumstances, it should  have said so - rather than presuming that 
the transfer was necessary for this to happen.  It had a duty to consider the suitability of the 
whole transaction,  not simply limit its advice to choosing  the best SIPP provider.
Mr W was transferring his pension funds to the FPT for investment  in overseas property. 
Theres no duty of care exhibited here by Insight in terms of understanding  his capacity to 
withstand losses. 
Insight couldnt  seek to exclude  or restrict any duty or liability  it had to Mr W. It had an 
obligation to assess  the suitability of the investment he was considering, and it couldnt avoid 
this by asking  Mr W to sign terms of business  instructing it to only consider the pension 
switch in isolation, or by implying  such in documentation  like the FPR.
Insight shouldve provided Mr W with an explicit recommendation not to proceed  with the 
switch of his pension funds into the Rowanmoor FPT,  the purpose  of which was to invest  all 
his pension funds  into unregulated overseas property. It failed to do this.
Instead, Insight  made arrangements  for the switch  of Mr Ws personal  pension plan into the 
FPT. It signed off the applications using its authorisation details. It transmitted the necessary  
applications. In doing so, it led Rowanmoor to believe  Mr W had been properly advised on 
the transaction.
In doing all this, Insight was aware Mr W was being exposed to significant risks in the 
investments it was facilitating.  It knew these funds could be illiquid, meaning Mr W might 
have difficulty getting access to his pension funds.  The investment was specialised,  out of 
the ordinary and reliant on third parties. And it was subject to valuation  uncertainty. And 
theres no evidence  he was a sophisticated  investor.
Ive other  concerns about the transaction Insight recommended and enabled. For example, 
the level of fees and charges Mr W incurred for his new pension arrangements were 
considerably higher  compared to his previous  plan.  
The suitability report was misleading on costs, implying he paid 3.5%  of the value of his pot 
per year in his Zurich  plan. Actually,  as it knew  from the fact-find, the costs were nearer 1%. 
It was actually the new arrangement it recommended that drove up his costs substantially.  
The investigator concluded the set-up, ongoing costs and penalties for leaving his Zurich 
pension plan equated to nearly 20% of his pension value.
Ref: DRN43493419Certainly, the new arrangement was much more  costly. And a significant element of the cost 
was driven by the pension vehicle Insight recommended, the FPT. It described this pension  
wrapper in the following terms:
 The Rowanmoor Pensions  [FPT] is suitable for families or any group of people who wish to 
retain maximum control of their pension arrangements and where other  types of member  
directed pensions are not practical.  The [FPT] allows  flexibility for the members because  
some, or all, of the members are also trustees. The trustees share  responsibility  for ensuring 
the scheme complies with Her Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC)  guidelines and 
legislation with Rowanmoor Pensions. Trustees responsibilities also include authorising any 
movement of funds  and agreeing scheme  payments.
Each Rowanmoor Pensions [FPT] is established  under its own individual trust and 
registered with HMRC. There are separate arrangements within the trust for each member. 
This is unlike  most SIPPs where there is a single scheme, established under a master  trust 
for all members. The FPT combines the control  members would have in a small employer-
based scheme with the simplicity of a Provider  scheme. Assets within  a [FPT] are held in 
the name of the trustees of the scheme and not controlled by the scheme operator, as is 
usually the case  for a SIPP.  The members  funds may be pooled into common  investment 
funds, making ownership and borrowing,  particularly  for property investment, that much 
simpler.
Ive thought carefully about the FPT and whether it was suitable for Mr W. Ive concluded 
that it wasnt. I say this because it was a sophisticated arrangement, with a niche target 
group aimed at drawing in the investments of family  members and others. But I cant find in 
the information gathered by Insight about Mr Ws circumstances and his objectives, nor 
those of his wife, a strong rationale  as to why an FPT was specifically appropriate.
I understand the FPT was a relatively new concept.  By definition, it wasnt  tried and tested. I 
think the FPT - which  entailed significant responsibilities and administrative overheads  for 
individual trustees and members  was over engineered for Mr Ws requirements. One result 
of this was that it drove costs with an adverse impact on Mr Ws fund, in return for benefits 
which were very unclear  in comparison with cheaper alternatives which couldve met Mr Ws 
objectives.
On the matter of the duty of care Insight owed Mr W there are several examples where it 
falls short.  For example, it notes Mr R provided  Mr W with advice about the alternative 
investment he wanted to make. But it wouldve been  aware,  or shouldve been, that Mr R 
doesnt appear to have  been a regulated adviser.
Insight says Mr R was responsible for gathering information from Mr W for many  of the key 
deliverables, such  a detailed fact-find. I dont  think it can rely on this to avoid the 
responsibility it had for getting to grips with the information. It had a duty to do this given the 
importance of the transaction it was about  to undertake  on his behalf,  and for which  it was 
charging him a significant fee.
I dont think Insight took enough interest  in the getting to the bottom of Mr Rs role. And I 
cant see its drawn Mr Ws attention to the significant downside of dealing with unregulated 
individuals. In my view, this shouldve put Insight on alert.  It was even more important that it 
understood his objectives and circumstances properly. Rather it seems to have skirted 
around these matters.
Ref: DRN434934110In a recent  submission to this Service, Insight said Mr W and his wife were close  associates 
of Mr R who was also a TRG agent. For example, Mr W and Mr R were directors of the 
same limited  companies. It says this means  whatever  it had advised  he wouldve gone 
ahead with the investment in Cape Verde in any case. 
I understand the point Insight is making. Having checked the information available at 
Companies House,  I can see that one of the businesses referred to is Mr and Mrs Ws 
commercial construction  and roofing  firm, which was incorporated in 1999.  They  were  the 
shareholders. Mr R was appointed as a Director  of the firm, but this wasnt  until 2013, 
several years after the Cape Verde investment.
The second  business Insight has identified to demonstrate the close  association  between Mr 
and Mrs W wasnt  incorporated until 2011, again  somewhat later that the transaction  in 
dispute. And Mr W was appointed as a director to that company until 2013.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has provided  a lengthy explanation of the circumstances 
surrounding their connection with Mr R and his father who I understand was minister of a 
church. While  I can see that these individuals were  all part of the same congregation and at 
certain times  various  members were engaged in joint endeavours related to works in their 
community, Insight has failed to show how these matters, which were subsequent to the 
events of 2009, demonstrate its more likely than not Mr and Mrs W wouldve been 
influenced by Mr R, to such  an extent they wouldve ignored professional advice.
And unfortunately for Insight it doesnt have any paperwork  to support its argument here. It 
didnt advise Mr and Mrs W not to go ahead with the Cape Verde  investment.  And theres no 
insistent client paperwork showing Mr W wanted to proceed in such  a fashion.
In light of these  facts, and the absence of material evidence of Mr Rs alleged influence  over 
Mr W, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to conclude anything other than that he wouldve 
followed the advice  of Insight and its recommendations.
Mr W ended  up switching his personal  pension into an FPT on the recommendation of 
Insight. Ive concluded that solution was over engineered for his circumstances and 
objectives. The fees, charges and penalties under the new arrangement were high, and Ive 
not seen any justification of how such a major  increase  in costs which eroded his pension  
fund, together  with the additional associated administrative  overheads,  could be rationally 
justified.
While Insight has maintained its position  that it wasnt responsible  for advising  Mr and Mrs W 
about the Cape Verde  investment, the regulatory position is clear it shouldve  done so. The 
transaction Insight  recommended wasnt a match for Mr Ws risk appetite,  his capacity for 
loss or his investment experience.
Ive concluded  the switch  of Mrs Ws pension funds  into the Rowanmoor FPT and the 
overseas investment cant sensibly be regarded as fair to Mr W. As such, Insight  failed to 
meet the regulatory requirements when  providing him with advice and making the necessary 
arrangements. 
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable to uphold this 
complaint against  Insight  and for it to put things right.
Ref: DRN434934111putting things right
Mr W needs to be returned  to the position he wouldve been in now - or as close  to that as 
reasonably possible   had it not been for the failures  which  I hold Insight responsible  for.
If Insight had done everything it shouldve, on balance  I dont  think  Mr W wouldve switched 
funds from his Zurich  personal pension into the Rowanmoor FPT and high-risk  overseas 
property investment, and so he wouldnt  have  suffered the uncertainty  and financial loss hes 
now facing.
In arriving at what I think is fair redress, Ive tried to weigh all these matters. Insight will also 
need to ensure its approach to redress takes into account the linked complaint from Mrs W 
and the outcome on that.
So, Insight  Financial Associates Limited must  put things right in the following way:
1. Calculate a notional  loss Mr W has suffered as a result of making the switch
1.1 Insight should obtain a notional value of Mr Ws former pension plan at the date of 
settlement. It should use the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  Return Index - prior to 
1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market  Income Total  Return Index - as a benchmark. 
Im satisfied this is a reasonable proxy for the type of return that couldve been achieved  if 
Mr Ws pension  had remained invested in his previous plan.
1.2 I dont think  Mr W made any withdrawals from or further  contributions to his FPT. The 
activity Ive seen  on his account seems  to relate largely to fees. After confirming the detailed 
position, the value Insight  obtains, or the calculations Insight makes  should assume any 
adjustments would  still have  occurred and on the same dates.
1.3 The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional  value  of Mr 
Ws former  personal pension plan and his proportionate share  of the current value of his 
FPT including any investments and cash held (see step 2), will be his basic financial loss 
that Insight needs to redress.
2.Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be redeemed
2.1 To close  Mr W and his wifes FPT and avoid  ongoing fees, the investment needs to be 
crystallised. To do this Insight should ask Rowanmoor  to determine an amount  its willing  to 
accept as a commercial value for the investment and Insight can then pay this to take 
ownership of it.
2.2 If Insight  is unwilling  or unable to purchase the investments, the value should  be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation. In this instance, where Insight has 
compensated Mr W fully in line with my assessment, then it may ask him to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the FPT may receive from the 
investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount he may receive from the investment  and any eventual sums he would be able to 
access from the FPT. Insight will need to meet any costs in drawing up this undertaking.
3.Pay an amount into Mr Ws FPT so that the transfer value is increased by the loss 
calculated (resulting  from 1 and 2) or pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted 
for tax 
Ref: DRN4349341123.1 If compensation is paid into Mr Ws FPT, payment  should  allow  for the effect of charges 
and any available  tax relief, so that he is in the same position as if hed stayed in his original 
personal pension  plan.
3.2 If paying compensation into Mr Ws FPT would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and Insight takes on his investment, then it should  pay 
him compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make a notional deduction to allow 
for income  tax that would otherwise have been paid.
3.3 The notional  allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ws actual or expected  marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr W is likely to be a basic  rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic  rate of 
tax. However, if Mr W would have been  able to take tax-free cash, the reduction should only 
be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
3.4 Insight should also provide details of its calculations to Mr W in a clear format.
4.FPT fees
4.1 If the investments arent removed from Mr Ws FPT, and it remains open after 
compensation has been paid, Insight should pay him a proportionate share of an amount 
equivalent to five years of future fees (bearing in mind it has two beneficiaries,  him and his 
wife). This should  allow enough time for the issues with the investments to be dealt with, and 
for them to be removed from the FPT.
4.2 If, after five years,  Insight wants to keep the FPT open,  and to maintain an undertaking 
for any future payments under the investment, it must agree  to pay any further future  FPT 
fees. If Insight fails to pay the FPT fees, Mr W with his wife should  then have the option  of 
trying to cancel the investments to allow the plan to be closed.
5.Trouble and upset
5.1 Mr W was worried  when he found  out there were problems with his pension 
arrangements. He then had to spend  time trying to get things sorted. In recognition of this 
Insight should  pay him £200 for trouble and upset  its caused.
my decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. I require Insight 
Financial Associates Limited  to pay the redress Ive detailed  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 March  2021.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4349341