K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws complaint  against The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) is that when he did an 
account switch  to another bank, he lost the details of a large  number of payees.
background
In February 2019,  Mr W requested an account switch for one of his RBS accounts  to another 
bank. This was done successfully, but in the process he lost details of about  50 of his 
payees. 
He was unhappy about this, and complained to RBS. He said hed had no pre-warning this 
would happen,  and wanted it to change its systems.  It explained that due to its security  
processes, once an account  is switched its then fully closed. And that in order to Mr W to 
have continued  to have access to the lost payee data, it would have to have kept his account 
partially open, which wouldnt be safe and was against its processes. 
It didnt think it had made a mistake. But it acknowledged that losing the information caused  
Mr W inconvenience, and offered him £50 compensation.
He didnt accept  this. He said he wanted RBS to change its systems, so that customers like 
him would be aware when  doing  an account  switch,  that some  information might be lost. He 
also wanted higher compensation.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service.  Our Investigator felt that RBS hadnt  made  a 
mistake, and had already done  enough  to resolve  matters by offering the £50. So the 
complaint wasnt upheld.
Mr W didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that RBS has already done enough 
to resolve matters with Mr W following his complaint. 
Im sorry  that our Investigators  view wasnt as clear  as it ought to have been on why we 
cant uphold the complaint. This has since been clarified with Mr W, but Id like to do so 
again now. 
There are two reasons  for the non-uphold:-
1.I cant say RBS made a mistake   it followed its processes, and for security  reasons  
once an accounts  switched and closed it cant be kept partially  open, such that 
former payee details  could be accessed; and
2.We cant ask businesses  to change their processes.  Those are matters  for the 
regulator  FCA.  
Ref: DRN40849762Due to these findings, I cant say RBS acted  incorrectly, and I cant tell it to change its 
processes. I appreciate  this will disappoint  Mr W, but this is a matter  for the FCA, which  is 
RBSs regulator.
As Im not upholding the complaint, I wont be making an award  of compensation. However,  
its noted that RBS has made a gesture of offering £50, and Id expect  that to continue to be 
made available should Mr W wish to accept.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Its now a matter for Mr W whether  to 
accept The Royal Bank of Scotland Plcs offer of £50 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4084976