K820x#14complaint
Mr Es complaint against Santander UK Plc (Santander) covers a number of issues 
concerning the opening  and operation of an online account. 
background
Mr E, represented by his wife Mrs E, complains about Santanders  treatment of him, in 
particular in respect of his attempts to open  and access  an online savings account. 
From what  Ive seen, most  of the individual complaint  grounds  have  been  addressed  in our 
Investigators views  in April and May 2019,  and that whats left for me to decide here is 
whether Santander  should allow Mr E to access his online savings account using a landline 
number, as opposed to a mobile number. 
In 2017, Mr and Mrs E wanted to open online savings accounts. Online applications were 
completed, with Mrs Es going through smoothly, but Mr Es incurring some delay. This 
meant that by the time both accounts were  open,  different interest  rates were applicable to 
their savings. 
Mr E wasnt  happy about this. He believed the accounts should have been opened at the 
same time. 
In addition, while at the time (May 2017) a mobile number wasnt required to open and 
access such an account, Santander changed  this, so that now in order to access an online 
account a customer  must  provide a mobile  telephone number. This is in order  that a One 
Time Passcode (OTP) can be sent to it, to confirm the safe identity of the customer. 
Mr E wasnt  happy with this. He didnt have a mobile, and didnt want  one. He explained it 
wouldnt be cost-effective or secure  enough  for him, and he wanted to continue to use his 
landline number. He suggested that not allowing people to use their landlines, and to make  
mobiles mandatory, was discrimination.  
Our Investigator  looked  into the complaint, and issued two views.  Each  saying that she didnt  
think Santander had made the mistakes alleged, and also explaining that as were not a 
regulator of banks, we cant tell them what types  of accounts to offer,  how to operate  them, 
etc. 
Mr E still didnt  agree. He said that it made no sense for he and his wife to need two 
separate accounts, with separate security access  and that if Santander was able to offer a 
household account, it would suit them much better. 
He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that Santander hasnt treated Mr E 
unfairly, and I dont think it needs to take any further  action to resolve this complaint. 
Ref: DRN45358162I know this is going  to be disappointing  to Mr E, and I hope  I can explain why I think this is a 
fair decision. 
Mr Es clearly  had what he considers a difficult time with Santander  since  2017. In addition to 
the matter of the mobile number, his complaint  points were that it didnt respond to a letter; 
failed to communicate when it changed his account on maturity;  delayed action on maturity 
(causing lost interest); and wont accept a blanket authority for Mrs E to speak  to Santander 
on the phone on his behalf. 
Im satisfied on the evidence that I havent  seen  anything  to suggest that Santander either  
deliberately ignored  correspondence, or that it failed to send its own notifications to Mr E. I 
also cant say there  was a delay  causing a loss of interest that was Santanders fault.  
As to the matter  of Mrs E being able to speak  to Santander on Mr Es behalf, I understand 
its agreed to set up a process whereby she doesnt  need to complete the same security 
steps each time she calls.  And I think this is reasonable. 
On the matter of the online savers account, Mr Es unhappy that in order to access this 
online he now needs a mobile number. He says he didnt need  this when he first opened the 
account in 2017, and doesnt think its fair for Santander to require it now. He says he 
doesnt want or need a mobile,  and that Santanders  treating him unfairly.
Ive looked into matters further  since  our Investigators view in April and May last year,  and 
have asked Santander for some further information. Its confirmed that the type of account  
Mr E wants  to use (online) now requires the provision of a mobile number  before  it can be 
accessed. This is a security measure, to ensure its the proper person using the account, 
and allows  Santander  to send an OTP to its customers, which they then enter online to 
complete security.  Santanders confirmed to me that this is a change  as a consequence  of 
its ongoing security measures, and that a landline cant be used, as an OTP cant be sent to 
one. 
I can see why it might have been frustrating  for Mr E to be told that to continue  using  his 
account hed need a mobile phone. But Im satisfied Santanders doing this for the right 
reasons. I dont think hes being  discriminated  against, and Im satisfied this is a 
proportionate and necessary security measure in our increasingly technologically-driven  
world. Ultimately, its an additional security step specifically designed to protect customers. 
In addition, our service isnt a regulator,  so we cant tell banks what sort of accounts to 
provide, and how to operate  them.
Mr Es expressed a wish for a household account. But, as were not the regulator, this isnt 
something that we can ask Santander to offer. 
My role here it to decide, on the available evidence, if I think Santanders made a mistake or 
treated Mr E unfairly. While I do have sympathy for Mr Es own communication  difficulties, 
which do add an extra layer of complexity  to him managing his relationship with Santander, I 
cant say its acted unfairly, or made  any mistakes. Further, I think its been  trying to do what  
it can to make things easier moving  forward, by inviting Mrs E to set up a call system 
whereby she can speak on Mr Es behalf  without having to do the full security clearance 
process each time. 
Ref: DRN45358163I hope Ive explained that Santander doesnt offer the type of account that Mr E would like, 
but why I dont think this means hes been  treated unfairly. I do hope that moving  forward  
hes able to find a way to conduct  his banking business that most  suits his needs.  
For these reasons, I wont be upholding the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E, or Mrs E on 
his behalf, to accept or reject my decision before  7 March 2020. 
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4535816