K822xcomplaint
Miss B complains  that TSB Bank plc wont refund two cash machine withdrawals, for £300  
and £200, that she says she neither made herself nor authorised someone else to make.
background 
Miss B has explained that she tried to make a £20 cash machine withdrawal near her home. 
No cash was dispensed, and Miss B says her card wasnt returned  to her. She called TSB 
almost immediately to tell it what had happened. TSB said that its records  showed that the 
£20 Miss B had requested  hadnt  been dispensed,  but had been  taken  back  into the cash  
machine. But those records also showed that, within a few minutes of the unsuccessful 
withdrawal, Miss Bs card had been  used  to withdraw £500  at a different cash machine very 
close by. The exact timings were:
9:57am Miss B tries to withdraw  £20
10:02am  Miss B calls TSB
10:06am  withdrawals  of £300  and £200.
Miss B said that she hadnt made the two withdrawals. Shed stayed near the first cash  
machine as she phoned TSB.
TSB looked into what had happened  but didnt agree  to refund the withdrawals.  It couldnt  
see how anyone could  have obtained and used Miss Bs card if it had been retained in the 
first machine, or how anyone could have obtained  her PIN.
Miss B referred her complaint to this service  and one of our investigators considered  it. He 
recommended that TSB refund the disputed  withdrawals.  He wasnt  persuaded that Miss B 
had been responsible for them. TSB didnt agree and asked  that an ombudsman review the 
case.
I did that and issued a provisional  decision. Although I agreed  with the investigators overall 
conclusions, I wanted to set out my reasoning in a little more detail, so that both parties  but 
in particular TSB  could  provide further  comment if they wanted to. I explained in my 
provisional decision why I thought that the cash  machine  that Miss B had used had been 
tampered with and how that had enabled  fraudsters to see her PIN, take her card and use it 
with the PIN nearby.  I recommended a refund, together with interest and a payment in 
recognition of the distress Miss B had suffered.  
Miss B accepted  my provisional  findings. TSB acknowledged receipt of my provisional  
findings but didnt respond to say whether or not it accepted  them. Ive therefore  considered  
the case again before issuing this final decision.       
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I think  its clear  that the genuine  card was used to make  the disputed  withdrawals, 
together with the correct PIN. Miss Bs card was not retained in the first cash  machine as 
she thought it was. TSBs submissions to this service identified the possibility that the first 
machine might have  been tampered with, but then appear to dismiss that possibility. The 
Ref: DRN42285302reason for that is that the card cannot have been both retained in the first machine and used 
in the second. TSB knew however that the card had been used in the second machine and 
had not been retained  in the first.
The bank identified  too that there might have  been  a device attached  to the first machine; it 
even mentioned the type of device  concerned  (a card trap, commonly  called a Lebanese 
loop), but doesnt appear to have considered what would have happened if the first machine 
had been tampered with in that way.
A card trap is a relatively simple device which can prevent a card from being returned  to a 
customer from a cash  machine. But, because the person who placed it in the machine 
knows its there, they can retrieve the card after the customer has left. Having observed the 
PIN (by shoulder-surfing or with a camera),  they can then use the genuine  card and PIN. 
The machine  wont necessarily show any signs of having been tampered  with; nor will it 
show that the card has been retained. In my view, Miss Bs account of events is entirely  
consistent with this having happened  in this case. Having considered the possibility that a 
card trap had been used here, its surprising then that TSB dismissed that possibility so 
readily.
Of course,  the fact that Miss Bs account of events is consistent with the use of a card trap 
doesnt necessarily  mean  that one was used  here.  I note however that she was on the 
phone to TSB from 10:02am, for about 20 minutes in total. The banks notes  indicate  she 
was at the first cash machine while she was calling;  she was warning other users that it 
appeared to have a fault. I dont  believe therefore  that Miss B was at the second cash  
machine while the withdrawals were being made  three or four minutes after she began  her 
call to TSB.  Nor does  the evidence suggest that Miss B knew  someone  else was going to 
use her card. It follows  that Miss B didnt make the withdrawals herself or authorise  anyone 
else to do so.
TSB says that Miss B couldnt say whether shed covered her PIN when using the first ATM. 
I think its likely that she didnt  or at least that she didnt cover  it sufficiently well to protect it 
from the fraudsters who were targeting her and the machine. I dont believe however thats 
sufficient to make her liable for the disputed withdrawals.
TSB also asked Miss B to contact the police so that they could obtain any CCTV footage 
covering the cash  machines in question. She did that, but it doesnt appear  that the police 
have obtained  that footage; its possible of course that there was none, but Miss B has no 
control over any police investigation.
In summary,  therefore, the evidence from Miss B, the bank and the cash  machine operator is 
consistent with her card having been stolen  by the use of a card trap and used without her 
knowledge or authority within a few minutes. It follows  that TSB had no authority to debit her 
account and that it should  therefore  refund the disputed  withdrawals.  In my view it would be 
fair to add interest  to any award.  And, as Ive indicated,  I think  that, having identified the 
possibility of a card trap being used,  TSB should have investigated that more thoroughly;  
because it didnt, Miss B has been put to more inconvenience than she should  have  been,  
and I propose to include an award  in recognition of that.
my final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Miss Bs complaint, TSB Bank plc should:
pay Miss B £500;
Ref: DRN42285303pay interest on that sum at 8% a year simple from 30 September  2018 until that date of 
payment; and 
pay Miss B a further £150  in recognition  of the inconvenience to which shes  been put. 
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4228530