K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) did some  work under her home 
emergency insurance policy, which caused a leak. 
background 
Mrs H told us that she had an engineer  from BGI out to do some work on the central heating 
system in her home.  She said that the engineer left a radiator  open  in her home, and that 
caused a leak.  She said that she only realised this the next day, after the water had soaked 
through her bedroom floor, and into the garage below. 
Mrs H said that she took some coats, which were in the garage,  to the drycleaners. A canvas 
in the garage  was damaged. And she cut out the damp section of the carpet from the 
bedroom, because  it was starting  to smell.  She said that she took that bit of carpet outside. 
Mrs H told us that BGI had advised  her to do that.
Mrs H said that BGI had paid for the items  that were damaged, and for the cleaning.  But she 
still wanted BGI to pay for her carpet,  which she said shed had to replace. 
BGI said that it had paid Mrs H £286. That was made up of £136 for other damaged  items 
and cleaning, and £150 for the carpet. BGI said thats what  it wouldve cost to clean the 
carpet. 
BGI said that it thought that the carpet could just have been  cleaned, if Mrs H hadnt cut it. 
But it hadnt had an opportunity to try cleaning the carpet, because Mrs H had already cut 
away the damp part before it got there. BGI said that it hadnt  told Mrs H to do that. It didnt 
have any records of Mrs H contacting it, and being  told to cut away  the damp area of carpet. 
Our investigator didnt  think that BGI had to pay for Mrs Hs new carpet.  But she did think 
that BGI should  pay compensation  to Mrs H, for the distress and inconvenience this leak 
caused. 
Mrs H said that she still thought BGI should  pay for the carpet. And BGI didnt think  it should 
have to pay compensation.  Because neither  side agreed with our investigator, the complaint 
was passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
as our investigator on this complaint, and for broadly the same reasons.
Mrs H has a home emergency policy with BGI. She says that she had a leak from a radiator 
after BGI worked on her central heating system. BGI seems to me to have accepted  liability 
for the damage  done by this leak. So I just need to think about whether what  its paid is fair. 
What I need to think about  here is whether BGI should pay for Mrs Hs new carpet,  and 
whether it should  pay some compensation.
Mrs H says that she cut her carpet because BGI told her to, on one of the calls she made  to 
chase its response to her complaint. But she hasnt been able to show  us records  of those 
Ref: DRN41683402calls. BGI makes  notes  whenever one of its customers  calls it. But it says that it doesnt  have 
any notes to support  what Mrs H says about  this. Its sent us the notes it does have,  of when 
it spoke to Mrs H. Those dont show that she was repeatedly ringing to chase progress on 
this issue, before the carpet was cut.
Considering the information I have, I dont think that Im able to decide that Mrs H was told 
that she should cut away  a damp piece of carpet.  Ive thought  about  whether it was 
reasonable for Mrs H to do this anyway. And I dont think it was. Ill explain why I think that.
I know that it was almost two weeks before BGI was able to send someone out to assess  the 
damage the leak had caused. And I appreciate that it mustve been unpleasant to have a 
damp smell  in the house. But I think that if Mrs H was concerned  about  this, then she ought  
to have discussed the problem with BGI before  taking such a big step. Cutting the carpet 
and putting the damp  piece outside would mean  that there was no chance of the carpet 
being dried out and cleaned up. 
Because I havent  been able to decide  that Mrs H discussed cutting the carpet  with BGI 
before she cut it, I dont  think  that I can fairly ask BGI to pay for a new carpet for her. It may 
have been possible, as BGI says, to clean the old carpet, if it hadnt  been cut. Ive seen the 
pictures of the damp carpet, that Mrs H took,  and it doesnt look damaged, just damp. So it 
seems likely that BGI couldve cleaned it. Because of that, I think its fair for BGI only to pay 
Mrs H what it wouldve  paid for carpet cleaning.
But I do agree  with what our investigator  said about  compensation.  I think that this leak, and 
the problems it caused, have been inconvenient and unpleasant for Mrs H. So I also think  
that BGI should  pay Mrs H some  compensation. 
I know BGI doesnt agree with that. It says that mistakes  do happen, and sometimes it takes 
a while  to sort them out. But BGI oughtnt to leave a radiator  to flood Mrs Hs house.  And, 
having done so, it ought to make resolving  the problem a priority. Because it did cause 
damage, and because  it did then take some  time to sort out the problem, I think that BGI 
should do a little more than say sorry, and pay for the damage.  I think  our investigator was 
right to suggest that BGI should also pay Mrs H £100 in compensation. I think that provides 
a fair and reasonable resolution  to this complaint, and thats what  Ill award.
my final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Mrs H £100  in 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4168340