K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that Vitality Health  Limited  charged him an excess  twice during the 
same course of treatment  under his private  medical insurance policy. Mr D has also 
complained about Vitalitys poor service.
background
Mr D began suffering abdominal pain. In February  2017, he contacted Vitality and it 
authorised him to undergo  physiotherapy.  Mr D had to pay the policys £250  excess before 
Vitality would provide  cover.
In December 2017, Mr D was still suffering pain. Vitality authorised  him to have an outpatient 
consultation with a specialist.
Mr D later found that he needed to pay another £250 excess in respect  of his claim for the 
consultation. He queried this with Vitality who explained it was because  the policy had 
renewed in October  2017 and the excess applied per person  per policy  year.
Mr D complained to Vitality. He considered it was unfair that he had to pay an excess twice  
for the same course of treatment. He also said that it was Vitalitys poor service which had 
caused the treatment to run into a new policy year.
Vitality didnt uphold  Mr Ds complaint. He therefore referred the complaint  to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He noted that since  
making his claim Mr D had made  a number of complaints to Vitality  about its poor service. 
However, Vitality had issued final response  letters on each of those complaints and, 
because more than six months had passed,  Mr D was now too late to bring  those particular 
complaints to us. In respect of the excess being charged twice, our investigator was satisfied 
that Vitality had correctly  applied  the terms of the policy.
Mr D didnt accept the investigators findings.  He maintained that if it hadnt  been for the poor 
service then his course of treatment wouldnt have extended into a new policy  year and he 
wouldnt have needed to pay the further excess. He said the service  issues  therefore  needed  
to be taken into account in assessing his current complaint.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
As the investigator  has explained, I dont have  a free hand to consider all of the complaints 
which come  before me. The extent of my jurisdiction to consider a complaint is determined  
by the application of the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP Rules) set out in the Financial  
Conduct Authoritys  handbook.
DISP 2.8.2R states that, unless the business  has agreed:
Ref: DRN41667792The Ombudsman  cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the
Financial Ombudsman  Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution
communication;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in
DISP 2.8.2R  was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Mr D has previously made a number of complaints to Vitality about what  he sees as poor 
service. Vitality issued final response  letters on these complaints on 15 December 2016,  
25 April 2017, 1 September  2017, 30 November 2017 and 22 December 2017.
Mr D referred  his complaint to us on 4 October 2018. This was more than six months after 
each of the above final response letters. Im not aware of any exceptional  circumstances to 
justify this delay.  This means I cannot consider these complaints because they have been 
referred to us too late and are therefore outside  of my jurisdiction.  
I am able to consider Mr Ds complaint about  being charged an excess twice because  this 
was referred to us within six months of Vitality  issuing  its final response.  However,  Mr Ds 
policy quite clearly explains that the excess is payable per person per policy  year. He paid 
an excess when he began  his treatment. However, on 10 October 2017 his policy renewed. 
He then underwent  the consultation  on 19 December 2017.  Because this was a new policy  
year, Mr D was clearly required under the terms of the policy  to pay a new excess, 
regardless of the fact that it was for ongoing  treatment of his abdominal pain.
Mr D has argued  that it was because of Vitalitys poor service  that his treatment stretched 
into a new policy year and he therefore shouldnt be subject to the new excess. However, 
Vitality didnt uphold  the majority of Mr Ds complaints about poor service and, as explained 
above, I cant now re-examine those matters. I must therefore assume  that Vitality  was not at 
fault.
Vitality partially upheld one of Mr Ds complaints. It conceded that documents,  including a 
referral letter, should have been  stored appropriately so they could easily  be located by its 
staff dealing with Mr Ds claim. It offered £50 compensation for this failing. However, for me 
to conclude that this justifies  waiving the second  excess, I would need to be satisfied that, 
were it not for this failing, Mr D would have undergone all of his treatment before 10 October 
2017. This would  mean that the failing had caused  a delay in Mr Ds treatment of at least ten 
weeks. Im not persuaded from the evidence  available that this factor  delayed  Mr Ds 
treatment by such an extent. If it had, I would have expected  Mr D to have complained to us 
at the time on the grounds that Vitality should have paid considerably  more  compensation.
I therefore conclude  that Vitalitys  failings are not the reason  that Mr Ds treatment extended 
into a new policy year and hence  it is reasonable for Vitality to ask him to pay a second 
excess. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN41667793Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4166779