K822xcomplaint
Mrs B complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  have declined her escape  of water claim unfairly.
background 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in September 2019, which sets out the 
background to Mrs Bs dispute and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I said I didnt think Ageas had acted  unreasonably  by declining  
Mrs Bs claim as it appeared her gas usage was particularly  low  such  that that it didnt 
seem she had complied with the heating clause of her policy  (which  was to heat the house at 
12 degrees Celsius consistently for 24 hours  per day between November and March). 
However, I said I was willing to reconsider this if she could produce  any independent expert  
evidence to the contrary.
But I said I was minded to uphold Mrs Bs complaint in part because  I could see there had 
been avoidable delays in the handling of her claim,  so I considered Ageas should pay £100 
compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by this delay.
I invited further comments  and evidence from both parties. Ageas accepted the findings  in 
my provisional decision and agreed to pay £100  compensation.  Mrs Bs representative 
disagreed and said the gas usage  figures being  used for comparison were unreasonable.  
He also said it is based on the assumption that the pipe actually  burst on the day it was 
discovered on 15 January  2018,  rather than at any point before that.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  the recent comments  
made by Mrs Bs representative,  but these points  do not change  the outcome arrived at in 
my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Mrs Bs representative says the gas usage  figures being used for comparison are 
unreasonable as heating  a house at 12 degrees Celsius cannot be considered as medium  
usage. He also says that the typical domestic energy consumption figure that ought  to be 
used is 8000KW/hr  per year, as this is the figure set for the lowest usage group.
In my provisional decision,  I said I felt the medium usage group was the more  accurate 
comparator at 12,000KW/hr per year based on the size of Mrs Bs property. I still think  this is 
the most  accurate comparator because the low usage group is considered  by Ofgem  to be 
applicable to 1-2 bedroom flats.  The medium usage  group  is said to be applicable to small-
medium houses of around 3 bedrooms. 
Mrs Bs property  is a bungalow with five rooms and, unlike a typical small flat, it has a roof in 
which heat can be lost from (even when insulated).  So taking this into account, as well as 
the size of the bungalow, I still consider the medium usage  category to be the more  
appropriate comparator in the circumstances, as it appears that the property is more akin to 
a house with a roof than a small flat. 
Ref: DRN40707742I also fully accept that the average medium property is not necessarily  heated at 12 degrees 
Celsius throughout the winter, which I noted  in my provisional decision. As a result,  I applied  
a 50% discount  factor  to the average household  heating figure  to allow  for this (i.e. using 
4800KW/hr as the comparator rather than the 9600KW/hr), but even applying  this discount 
factor Mrs Bs gas usage  still only equated  to around 26% of the average yearly 
consumption figures, which still appears to be particularly low. 
Mrs Bs representative further  submits  that the property is semi-detached so there would be 
some heat coming through from the neighbouring bungalow. I appreciate this, but theres 
very little evidence to suggest what impact (if any) this might have had on the temperature 
and heating needs of Mrs Bs property (for example, its not known whether the neighbouring  
bungalow was even occupied or at what temperature it was heated).  So Im afraid this 
doesnt make a difference to the findings made in my provisional decision. 
In any event, I said I was willing to reconsider my findings if Mrs B was able to produce some  
independent expert  evidence to demonstrate  that her gas usage  over the relevant period 
was consistent  with heating the property at the level required  by the policy.  I havent  been 
provided with any such  evidence, so the findings  I set out previously remain  the same.
Finally, Mrs Bs representative submits that the pipe could  actually  have burst weeks  prior to 
the date it was first discovered on 15 January 2018,  which couldve had an impact  on the 
gas usage. I appreciate  this point as well; however there is little evidence  to suggest this did 
happen. For example,  there is no indication in the loss adjuster report that the burst pipe had 
been leaking  for a sustained  period of time over a few weeks. So in the absence  of any other 
persuasive evidence,  I consider the most accurate date to go by is the date the gas was 
actually switched off, which  was the 15 January 2018. 
I appreciate there is not a lot of information  to go on in Mrs Bs case, and that assumptions  
have had to be made  meaning the calculations are not an exact science. But having  
considered various  scenarios and applying  discount factors,  neither of the figures  arrived at 
would appear  to suggest that the heating clause in the policy  was complied  with. So in the 
absence of any further evidence, Im not persuaded that Ageas declined Mrs Bs claim unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above  as well as in my provisional decision  I direct  Ageas Insurance  
Limited to pay £100 compensation to Mrs B within 28 days  of her acceptance of this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40707743COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs B complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  (Ageas) have declined  her escape of water claim unfairly.
background
Mrs B holds a buildings  insurance policy with Ageas that covers unoccupied properties. The policy 
provided cover for her late fathers bungalow, which she was preparing to put on the market  for sale. 
Mrs B lives some  distance  away from the insured property, but it was visited by an estate agent  on 15 
January 2018 who discovered water pouring from the ceilings due to a burst  pipe in the attic caused 
by frost action. Mrs B submitted an escape of water claim  under her policy with Ageas, who sent a 
loss adjuster to review the property. 
The loss adjuster  initially  reported that Mrs B had taken all reasonable  steps to protect the property 
from an escape of water. However,  after scrutinising  Mrs Bs gas bills, Ageas subsequently declined 
her claim. They  said she had not complied with a condition precedent to liability under the policy that 
required her to keep the house consistently heated at 12 degrees Celsius during the period 1 
November to 1 March each year. Ageas reached this conclusion because they didnt  think Mrs Bs 
gas bills were  consistent  with heating the property at this level. 
Mrs B complained as she was unhappy with Ageass decision  to decline her claim.  She says she was 
having work carried out on the bathroom, and that the heating and water were completely switched off 
until she visited  the property on 25 November 2017. At this point, Mrs B says she set the heating for 
the winter months at 12 degrees Celsius,  as she was aware of the policy condition that required her to 
do this. So she disputes Ageass reasons  for declining her claim. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Bs complaint,  as she didnt think Ageas  had used  a fair comparator when  
assessing whether the house was likely heated at 12 degrees Celsius over the winter.  The 
investigator didnt think Ageas had sufficiently  demonstrated that Mrs B had acted in breach  of the 
policy terms and conditions and also recommended that they pay £500 compensation in recognition  
of the trouble and upset  caused by their handling of the complaint. Ageas disagreed, so the complaint 
has been passed to me. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im currently minded to uphold it  but only in part.
The policy terms and conditions set out the general conditions that apply to the whole of the 
insurance policy:
Applicable to the whole  of this insurance
These are the conditions of the insurance you and your family will need to meet as part of the 
contract. If you do not, a claim  may be rejected of payment could  be reduced
The policy then sets out a specific heating clause  that must be adhered to:
Heating clause
It is a condition  of this insurance  that in the event  of
a.The home being  permanently vacated by the tenant(s)
Ref: DRN40707744during the period 1st November to 1st March  each  year that you comply  with one of the 
following:
i. Where the entire home has the benefit of a gas or oil fired central  heating  system, the 
system must be set to operate  continuously  for 24 hours each day at not less than 12 
degrees Celsius  of 54 degrees Fahrenheit: or
ii. All water supplies to the home are turned off at the mains  and the entire water system  
be drained  of all the water.
If you fail to comply with any of the above conditions, this insurance will not cover  loss or damage 
caused by escape of water from and frost damage to fixed water tanks, apparatus or pipes.
After requesting copies of Mrs Bs utility  bills, Ageas declined Mrs Bs claim on the basis that the 
volume of gas used  was insufficient to heat the house in line with the minimum requirements of the 
policy. This was because  her gas usage  was around 15-18% of the average gas used for heating. 
Mrs B submits  that Ageas have used an unfair comparator  when comparing her energy  use, due to 
the size of the property and the fact that it was unoccupied. 
Average gas usage 
Ageas say they have based their calculations on figures obtained from the energy regulator  (Ofgem) 
in relation to typical domestic energy  consumption.  The guidance  in relation to this data sets out that it 
is the amount  of energy  that a typical  household with a medium level of energy consumption uses in 
a year. This data sets out that the average gas usage per household (based on medium levels of 
usage) is 16,500KW/hr per year (or 1,375KW/hr  per month).  
Ageas said that heating  typically accounts for 80% of gas usage, with hot water and cooking making up 
the remaining 20%.  As a result, they said that the average gas usage per year for heating would  be:
16,500KW/hr x 80% = 13,200KW/hr 
Ageas say that Mrs Bs meter reading showed that she had used 37 units  of gas from 2 May 2017 
and 15 January 2018  when  the gas was switched  off. When converted to kilowatt hours, they say this 
works out at 420KW/hr over the relevant  period. Theyve then made the following  calculations based 
on Mrs B saying she didnt switch the gas on until November 2017:
420KW/hr = 168KWhr per month (2,016KW/hr per year)
2.5 months
So Ageas have estimated  Mrs Bs yearly average consumption to be 2,016KW/hr  per year,  which they 
say only equates  to around 15% of the 13,200KW/hr typically consumed according to Ofgem figures.
Ive considered Ageass  calculations, but I dont think theyve used an accurate comparator  because  
the figures theyve used  are based on typical domestic energy consumption figures  from January 
2011. These figures have since been revised and the regulator introduced updated figures  in October 
2017, which is what  Ageas ought to have used. These updated figures  state that a typical medium  
household would use 12,00KW/hr, or 9,600KW/hr per year on heating (disregarding  gas usage for 
cooking and hot water).
So Ive calculated what Mrs Bs gas consumption equates to based on these  updated figures. Mrs B 
has told us that her daughter  moved out of the house around the end of May 2017. She also says 
there was a friend of her daughter who was using the house throughout the day from May 2017 until 
sometime in July 2017.  So I dont think its correct to say that 420KW/hr was the total gas consumed 
over two and a half months (from November to mid-January) because the reading was taken on 2 
Ref: DRN40707745May 2017. And given the house was not totally unoccupied until July, it appears the gas was also 
being used from May to July, as well as in between  November to mid-January.
So, I therefore  think  it would  be more  accurate to consider that 420kw/hr  was the total gas used over 
a period of around four months (May to mid-July and end of November  to mid-January):
420KW/hr = 105KWhr per month (1,260KW/hr per year)
4 months
 
This is also consistent with the loss adjusters report, which mentions  that the property first became  
unoccupied in July 2017.  I think its fair to assume that gas was being used throughout the duration in 
which the house was occupied (whether  it was for heating, hot water or cooking),  but if this is not the 
case, I ask that Mrs B submits further independent evidence to demonstrate this.
So, when comparing  Mrs Bs gas consumption against the updated figures, this works out at an even 
lower rate of around  13% of the 9600KW/hr  typically  used on heating.  I accept that the average 
household would typically heat their house at temperatures  above 12 degrees Celsius,  particularly 
during the winter months. But even when applying  a generous 50% margin  on the average household  
heating figures to allow for the difference in temperature  and the fact the house was unoccupied  (i.e. 
using 4800KW/hr as the comparator rather than 9600KW/hr) Mrs Bs gas consumption still only 
equates to around  26% of the average yearly  consumption figures.
So, in the circumstances, I accept Ageass submission that these  figures appear to be particularly low, 
especially for a house that ought to have been heated consistently  at 12 degrees Celsius for 24 hours  
per day. And based on the evidence, Im not persuaded that Mrs B has complied with the heating 
condition of her policy. But if she is able to produce some independent  expert evidence  to 
demonstrate that her gas usage over the relevant period  is consistent  with heating the property to the 
required levels, I will duly consider it.  
Mrs B further submits that the temperature of the house has no bearing on the temperature in the 
attic, as the attic is well insulated and the pipes are lagged. I accept  the temperature between an attic 
and the rest of the house can differ.  But because it doesnt seem the rest of the house was heated 
consistently to the required  minimum, it isnt possible to say one way or another  whether this wouldve  
prevented the pipes bursting  in the attic or not (in other words, if the rest of the house was heated to 
the required minimum, it may well have prevented the burst pipe in the attic given  that it wouldve no 
doubt been connected to the pipes  in the heated house). 
So in summary, I dont  think Ageas has acted  unreasonably by declining Mrs Bs claim, and I dont 
intend asking them to pay the claim based on the evidence available. 
Compensation
Given that I dont think Ageas has incorrectly  in declining Mrs Bs claim, I dont intend asking  them to 
pay the £500  compensation  initially recommended by the investigator. However,  Mrs B has said she 
is unhappy with various elements of the service she received from Ageas.
Mrs B is unhappy  with the time it took Ageas to handle  her claim, and says that the cost of repairing  
the property  is now significantly higher due to it deteriorating further over the five months or so that 
her claim was being decided. She also says that trying to obtain an update on her claim  was difficult 
because there  were so many different companies  were involved. 
I understand Mrs B may have found it frustrating having to deal with the various different agents  that 
were involved in her claim. But it is relatively  common (and sometimes  necessary) for an insurer to 
involve various parties within a buildings insurance  claim due to the complexity  they can entail, such  
as loss adjusters,  contractors and claims  management  companies. So I cant  fairly hold Ageas 
responsible for any confusion this may have caused, although I appreciate  they could have made  it 
easier for her to obtain an update. 
Ref: DRN40707746In terms of the delay, I can see that the loss adjusters  first visited Mrs Bs property on 29 January 
2018 and issued their report a few days later recommending that Ageas cover the claim.  Ageas 
subsequently asked Mrs B to submit her gas bills on 7 February 2018 for them  to review, but it 
appears that this took some  time as she wasnt able to provide the bills until around a month later on 
5 March 2018.  So I dont  think Ageas  is responsible  for any delays with the claims progress  up until 
this point.
However, I can see that Ageas questioned Mrs Bs gas usage on 20 March 2018 and said they would  
not be able to accept the claim on the basis of the current gas usage. But they then didnt decline the 
claim until 24 April 2018, which is over a month after they said they wouldnt be accepting the claim  to 
the loss adjusters. It isnt clear why it took this long,  but I do think this is a delay for which Ageas are 
responsible, as I think they could  have  communicated  their decision  to Mrs B sooner. So I intend  
asking Ageas  to pay £100 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience this delay 
may have caused.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  outlined above, Im minded to uphold this complaint in part and intend asking  Ageas 
Insurance Limited to pay £100  compensation  in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ill consider any further comments or evidence  either party wants to provide,  so long as it is received 
by 30 September 2019.
Ref: DRN4070774