K821x#15complaint
Miss F complains that Close  Brothers  Limited should never have allowed her to take out a
conditional sale agreement with it to acquire a car.
background
I set out the background  to Miss Fs complaint in my provisional decision.  But Ill go through  
it again here, so that all relevant information  is in this final decision.
There are several different people and organisations involved in this complaint. To try to 
make it easier to understand who everyone is, I set out below, a brief list of the main people  
and organisations involved and their role.
P, a firm; it is the car dealership  who acted  as the credit broker  in relation to 
the conditional sale agreement.
Mr K, the salesman  at the car dealership who dealt  with Miss F.
Ms V, a friend of Miss F who represented Miss F in her complaint.
C, an organisation  that represented  Miss F alongside Ms V at some  points in 
the complaint.
Ms K, who is Miss Fs keyworker.
In September  2018 Miss F and a man who is now her ex-partner made  a visit to P.
Miss F told us she does not speak, read or write English well. She suggested  this would
have been obvious to all who spoke to her at P, including Mr K. She also suggested, this
was one of several  reasons why she should  have been treated by both P and Close Brothers  
as a vulnerable  consumer.
At first, Miss Fs position was that unknown to her, while she was at the dealership,  she 
entered into a finance agreement for a car. Her ex-partner, who lives in a different city which 
is quite a distance from her hometown, took the car and promptly  disappeared without telling 
her.
Moreover, at the time she took out the finance, Miss F said she was in no financial position 
to take on this debt as she could not afford it. She explained  that she was and remains  on 
benefits. In addition, she was unemployed, and she still is. As a result,  she does not have  
the disposable income to make the repayments required and never did. This is another 
reason why, she said, the contract should not have gone ahead.
Further, she does not know how to drive. She has no driving licence. All in all, she had no
use for a car and therefore no reason to take out a finance agreement  for one.
Almost immediately and as far as she was concerned out of the blue, Miss F began to
receive demands for payments for parking and driving fines. She told us she reported what 
had happened  with the agreement and the fines to the police. She wants  Close Brothers  to
cancel the agreement and to stop pursuing  her for payment.
Close Brothers stance was it had done  nothing wrong. It indicated that Miss F had 
provided inconsistent  information to it. At first it said, she told it she knew  nothing about the 
Ref: DRN41772412finance agreement  and had never gone  to the dealership; (Miss F has never told us she 
did not go to the dealership.).  She also told it her ex-partner  had stolen some  of her 
identification documents, including  her passport, to make the application. 
But when she was provided with CCTV footage showing her in the dealership she changed 
her version of events.  It wasnt that she hadnt  gone  to the dealership,  she had, but shed 
not understood what she was signing and had no intention of contracting with it. Close 
Brothers also pointed  out she had provided her passport  as part of the application process 
for the car finance.  It said she had also paid the deposit for the car using her debit card.
Later, its records  show, that speaking via a translator, Miss F said that she was forced by 
her ex-partner to go to the dealership to take out the finance. Miss F also put Close  
Brothers in touch with the police officer who was looking  at a possible criminal case  in 
relation to what had happened.  Both she and the police officer involved gave Close  
Brothers the crime reference  number. In addition, Miss F told both Close Brothers and the 
police that her ex-partner had made threats  to her safety when she told him she was going 
to the police.
Close Brothers looked at this information  and concluded Miss F had entered  willingly into 
the agreement. It asked  her to provide it with detailed information about where her ex-
partner might be keeping  the car. It was able to recover its car, but only after a degree of to 
and fro and getting agents to trace the car. The car was found  in the city in which Miss Fs
ex-partner lived. Miss F didnt have the keys and her ex-partner could not be found. So, 
Close Brothers had to arrange for the car to be uplifted and removed. This caused Close 
Brothers to run up extra costs, which it is looking to recover from Miss F too.
Close Brothers suggested in any event Miss F could afford the car. The information  it had 
on file showed  she was employed,  and that her sole monthly outgoing was rent, leaving 
her with more than enough income  to afford the monthly repayments. It didnt agree it had 
any good reason,  at the time, to doubt  the information it received about her income. Even 
though it accepted that this information  subsequently turned out to be inaccurate. Miss F 
never made any repayments towards the finance agreement.
In the midst of all this, whilst Close Brothers  was looking for the car, it got a call from
someone describing themselves as Miss Fs partner, even though she is single.
This person asked  about the finance  agreement and the car. Close  Brothers declined to
discuss this complaint with the caller.
The upshot  of this sequence  of events is that the car was sold but there was still money
owed under the agreement. Close Brothers  wants Miss F to pay the outstanding balance,  
around £2,100.
C contacted Close Brothers asking if it might reconsider. It made it clear it would not. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Miss F asked Ms V to come to our service on her behalf.
Once we received the complaint, Ms V told us Miss F had entered into the agreement
because her ex-partner  told her it would be an easy thing to do and he would make the
repayments. But due to her very limited grasp of English she really would not have  
understood the consequences of what she was doing by taking out this agreement. 
Ref: DRN41772413Ms V also provided further information about why Miss F should have been treated as a 
vulnerable consumer. She told us about  the existence of Ms K and said she was Miss Fs 
key worker. She indicated  that Miss F had had some very hard times in her past. She didnt  
go into any further detail  about why Miss F needed a keyworker. We have received no 
further information about this, and we have not been contacted  by Miss Fs key worker.
We also spoke to Mr K. At first, he told us the sale was so long ago he couldnt remember  
anything about  what was said on the day. But then he also said Miss F had definitely been 
speaking English to him. He followed this up with a detailed  written response in which he 
provided more information  which hed not mentioned before. He told us on the day the 
agreement was made Miss F came into the dealership with her ex-partner. They test drove 
the car. When they got back,  he (Mr K) and she discussed the finance and when she got the 
quote back she agreed she wanted  to go ahead.  Mr K recalled  she then handed over her 
passport and paid a deposit of £1,000 using her debit  card,  which she used by putting  the 
PIN in the card reader. Then she signed all the paperwork. Later Miss F and her ex-partner 
came back  together  and collected the car.
In addition, P sent us CCTV footage of the day Miss F entered into the agreement.  There 
are several very short, non-sequential,  clips.  One shows Miss F and her ex- partner coming 
into the office. Another shows Miss F turning to her ex-partner talking to him and then 
entering her PIN into a card reader. In this clip no other man is present but a woman sits 
behind a desk in front of Miss F. Another  showed  her sitting  by herself speaking to Mr K. 
Another clip shows Miss F flicking quickly through what P says is the conditional sale 
agreement.
Our investigator looked into Miss Fs complaint. He recommended upholding it. He 
concluded that given Miss Fs very limited grasp  of English she probably didnt understand 
what she was agreeing to when  she signed the agreement.
Further, our investigator looked  at whether  he thought Miss F could  afford the agreement. 
He concluded  she could not. Amongst  other  things he saw that Close Brothers suggested  it 
had done enough to find out if Miss F could pay it back. But the credit search didnt reveal 
any meaningful  information.  Plus, Close Brothers told us her application had been 
automatically approved.  But on closer  inspection we saw it had been  referred  to an 
underwriter. It seemed  this was a manual process. However, despite this, Close Brothers 
did not use this opportunity  to gather any more information. 
Our investigator pointed  out that Close Brothers  had to show that it had done sufficient 
checks to make sure the lending was affordable. Based on what  he could see our 
investigator didnt  agree  that the checks had been  proportionate.  Moreover, when he 
looked at Miss Fs financial  situation  in September 2018, he concluded that the lending  had 
not been affordable.
In addition, our investigator  was satisfied that Miss F had not used  the car. The information 
he had seen showed that almost from the beginning, the driver of the car began to rack up 
numerous fines relating to where the car was driven and parked. These fines were 
overwhelmingly incurred  in the location  where  Miss Fs ex-partner lived, not where Miss F 
lived.
Ref: DRN41772414For all of these reasons our investigator instructed Close Brothers  to remove  Miss F from 
the agreement, stop chasing  her for payment, update her credit file to reflect this and return  
her deposit  with interest.
Close Brothers rejected  our investigators recommendation. In summary, it pointed  out it 
was given inaccurate information about Miss Fs financial  standing,  which was down to her 
and she ought  to take responsibility for it.
It indicated it could  write off the balance and remove information  about the agreement 
from Miss Fs credit  file. That said, it expressed  concerns about refunding the deposit.  It 
suggested we should wait until the police finished investigating. It pointed out again that 
Miss Fs account of events had changed at certain points. It wondered  if perhaps  
Miss Fs ex-partner had already returned the deposit to her. 
Miss F accepted our investigators recommendation.
We had reached an impasse,  so I was asked to make a decision. I issued a provisional 
decision because although I was upholding the complaint  like our investigator, my redress 
was not entirely  the same  and I also relied on some fresh  reasoning.
In my provisional decision,  I took on board that Miss Fs version of events had changed over 
time. I also recognised that Close Brothers thought  this meant she was giving an inaccurate 
account of what  had happened. However,  I was not persuaded that it was fair and 
reasonable to come  to that conclusion.  I said this because I thought there was another  more 
likely reason for this inconsistency. Specifically,  I noted her language difficulties. Further,  I 
also noted that we have  had information coming  in for her through  several unconnected  
parties. Moreover, she has said that her ex-partner threatened her when she said she was 
going to the police, and I was satisfied that this had happened.
In such circumstances,  I said I did not find it surprising that Miss Fs version of events 
changed, if, for example, this reflected that she spoke  to us more  openly once she was free 
of the fear of retaliation from her ex-partner. In other words, I dont think  that merely because  
Miss Fs version  of events has at times been inconsistent, means,  I cannot safely rely on her 
recollections.
I explained why I thought  it was likely  that Miss F knew she was entering into an agreement  
for a car. Albeit I found it likely she thought that her ex-partner was going  to pay her back. 
That said,  I pointed out it does not follow that just because Miss F most  likely knew  she was 
getting finance for her ex-partner that does  not mean she also understood the nature of the 
deal. Most  importantly it does not necessarily mean she grasped the sort of liability  she was 
taking on. At the very least, it was Close Brothers responsibility, as a regulated business, 
when setting up the contract  with her via P, to give her an adequate explanation of the 
contract. Specifically, it should  have  made  sure to explain that she, not he, would  be liable 
for making  repayments  to the agreement.  I thought it likely  that Miss F had most likely not 
had this very key point  explained to her.
Ref: DRN41772415I was unpersuaded  by Mr Ks version of events. I came to this finding because  he had told 
us at first he could recall  nothing about what had happened. He then later gave us a lot of 
details, some of which proved incorrect. For example, he suggested he had been  there  
when Miss F paid the deposit, but the film clips showed he wasnt  there. In all the 
circumstances, I did not see how it was possible to on the one hand to remember  nothing  at 
all and on the other to remember fine detail.
I thought the series  of disjointed film clips from P didnt  help Close Brothers stance. Instead  
of showing what happened on the day as it occurred  we were sent a series of 30 second  or 
so shots, with no explanation of why we could  not just have been sent the whole film. On 
balance, I didnt think it showed the points  that Close Brothers were relying on - it merely 
showed the points that the parties were in agreement about already.
I found several other points to be significant,  Miss F had been in a new relationship  with her 
ex-partner. He did not live with her. They lived in separate towns far apart from each other. 
She cant drive, she does not need a car to go about  her day-to-day business.  
For all of these reasons It was difficult to see why then she would take on an agreement that 
left her to pay for the car costing £10,000,  all by herself, when  she was going  to get no 
benefit from the car.
In the very particular  circumstances of this complaint, I did not find that Close Brothers did 
make sure that the agreement was adequately explained to Miss F and it has an obligation 
to ensure that it was. In addition, it ought  reasonably to have  known that she did not 
understand the full nature  of the agreement.  On that basis,  I did not find it was fair and 
reasonable for it to be able to rely on the agreement.  It followed that Close Brothers  should  
cancel the contract  with nothing owed by Miss F and stop pursuing her for payment.
I made  no finding about whether Miss F had been  coerced into entering into the contract. 
This was because Miss F had not complained  about this to us. Rather, I saw mention of 
this in the case notes Close Brothers had provided. I said if Miss F wanted  us to look at this 
part of her complaint  she could say so if she chose to reply  to my provisional decision.
I then looked at the affordability of the agreement. I said that regulated lenders have certain 
responsibilities which they must abide  by when deciding to lend to a consumer. It seemed to 
me that both parties knew what these responsibilities were, so I did not go over them  in 
detail. But in summary, when lending money to a consumer,  Close  Brothers is required to 
ensure the consumer can repay the borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely 
impacting on their financial situation. A lender should obtain sufficient information to make 
an informed decision about  the lending. Exactly what a lender should  consider is for each 
lender to decide and the guidance and rules list a number  of things each lender may wish to 
consider.
Further, any checks carried  out by Close Brothers  when  assessing whether to lend to Miss F 
should have been proportionate,  based a number of factors including but not limited to, the 
amount of the credit, her pre-existing financial commitments,  and her vulnerability.
I found that the checks were not proportionate  for the reasons that our investigator  already
highlighted. But also, because the information  provided by Miss F about her financial 
situation was, on the face of it, so unlikely  that by itself, this information should  have 
Ref: DRN41772416caused Close Brothers to dig deeper. For example, it appears that Miss F indicated  that 
her sole monthly outgoing was for rent, as if she had no food bills or travel costs  or other 
priority bills. This is clearly  unlikely and should reasonably have  caused  Close  Brothers to 
ask more questions  about Miss Fs finances.
It is correct, as Close Brothers suggested  that it is entitled to rely on information that is 
provided by a consumer,  but that does  not mean it does  not have to apply  critical analysis 
where the information provided is so unusual  or unlikely in the circumstances that it would  
be prudent and proportionate to look further  at it.
I found if Close Brothers had taken  a closer look at Miss Fs financial position  it would have 
found that she had no means  of making  repayments without immediately adversely 
impacting on her financial situation. 
For this reason, too, I found that Close Brothers  should not on a fair and reasonable basis,  
be allowed to rely on the agreement  and it must  cancel it. Further,  I was satisfied, as I said 
before that she had not made use of the car, so Close  Brothers cant charge her for any 
use of the car.
Next I looked  at whether it was fair and reasonable that the deposit should be refunded to 
Miss F. 
I thought about  what  Close Brothers  had suggested,  namely Miss F might have already got 
the deposit back from her ex-partner. I thought it was implying this was because  they were  
acting together.  But I found this unpersuasive. Miss Fs ex-partner had seemingly left Miss 
F to be chased by Close Brothers for payment.  I was satisfied she was also being  chased 
for parking and driving fines. I was persuaded by what she had said about being 
threatened by her ex-partner  when she told him she was getting the police involved. An 
unknown man rang Close Brothers  precisely  at the point when it was taking active steps to 
get its car back.  In this call the man was trying to get information.  On balance, this did not 
seem to me to be a case  where  Miss F was colluding with her ex-partner.  Moreover,  there 
is no dispute about where the deposit came from. Both parties  agree  that Miss F did pay 
the deposit.
In all of the circumstances, I found  it was fair and reasonable that Close  Brothers should 
refund the deposit with interest.
I moved on to look at whether Miss F was a vulnerable consumer, and if she was, had 
Close Brothers dealt with her fairly.
Miss F has difficulties with written  and spoken English. She took on financial 
responsibilities for a man she barely  knew. She had no way of realistically paying back the 
debt. Miss F has been assessed as needing  a key worker to help her. For all of these 
reasons, it seemed likely  to me that Miss F is a vulnerable consumer. 
Where a consumer is vulnerable regulated  businesses have extra responsibilities  towards 
them. Close Brothers  had a legitimate interest in protecting  its asset.  But that did not mean 
it could place more  emphasis on this than on recognising that Miss F was vulnerable  and 
treating her accordingly.  However, I think Close Brothers did precisely  this, although  I think 
Ref: DRN41772417this was inadvertent.  For example, when Miss F told it her ex-partner had threatened her, it 
still asked her for help tracing its car, without it seems,  first checking  whether by doing this 
it was putting  her in danger.
In the very particular  individual  circumstances of this complaint, I thought that Close  
Brothers behaviour  fell below the standard Miss F is entitled  to expect and which  I think  it is 
likely Close Brothers expects of itself as well. On that basis,  I found it caused  Miss F 
distress and inconvenience for which it should  fairly and reasonably  have to compensate 
her for. I found that £500 was a fair and reasonable award.
I invited both Miss F and Close Brothers  to respond to my provisional decision.  Both 
responded to say theyd received it, but we have  received no response other than these 
acknowledgements of receipt.
my findings
I thank both Miss F and Close Brothers  for confirming  that theyd received my provisional 
decision. Ive re-considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reviewed the complete file again 
and revisited my provisional  decision.
Neither party has taken  the opportunity to comment on my provisional decision or to supply 
any new information. I think they have both had a fair chance to do this, if they had wanted 
to do so. It follows, given  that there is no further  evidence that I need  to consider, that I have 
reached the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
my final decision
My final decision is that Close Brothers  Limited must:
Cancel the conditional sale agreement with nothing owed by Miss F and stop 
pursuing Miss F for any of the money  owed  under the agreement.
Contact the credit  reference agencies and ask them  to remove all information  it has 
asked to be registered or its agents  have asked  to be registered with the credit  
reference agencies  about this agreement  on Miss Fs credit file.
Refund Miss Fs deposit of £1,000 and pay interest on the deposit at the rate of 8% a 
year simple,  the interest to run from the date the deposit was paid until the date of 
settlement.*.
Pay Miss F £500 for distress and inconvenience.
Close Brothers must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which  we tell it 
Miss F accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
£500 from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple*.
Ref: DRN41772418Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2020.
*If Close Brothers considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Miss F how much its taken off. It should also give Miss F a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4177241