K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that she was mis-sold her car finance agreement  with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS).
background
Mrs B says when she took out her personal  contract  purchase  agreement (PCP) in 
September 2015 she was told the car would have a guaranteed  minimum future  value 
(GMFV) of £9607.50 at the end of the agreement in February  2019.  She says when she 
returned to the dealership towards  the end of the agreement she was extremely unhappy to 
be told the car was only worth £8,000,  as that put her in a negative equity situation that 
would prevent her trading in and upgrading to a new car. And she says to buy the car 
outright shed have  to pay the GMFV which is more  than its actually worth.
Mrs B also says her agreement has a contract mileage of 13,000. But she says when she 
visited the dealership recently she was also given a quote  for a new car with a contract 
mileage of 8,000. And she says this was used  to try to gain a sale by reducing  the monthly 
payments and mislead her again.
So, Mrs B says she wants to be able to buy her current car for the £8,000 value thats been 
placed on it as thats clearly  what its worth,  rather than the £9607.50  VFS is demanding.
VFS says there are several  factors which affect a cars value and as a finance provider it has 
no control or influence  over this matter. It says the final optional  balloon payment is based  on 
a conservative estimate of the anticipated future  residual value. It says, whilst its hoped  the 
value of the car at the end of the agreement  will be higher than the optional final payment, 
there are no guarantees as that value will be determined by the used car market  at the time. 
And it says its PCP agreements protect  consumers when the value falls below the optional 
final payment as they have the right to return the car, subject to terms and conditions.
VFS also says its unable to comment on what Mrs B may have been  advised by the 
dealership as it wasnt party to those conversations. It says in line with her signed 
agreement, the optional  final balloon  payment  is a non-negotiable amount Mrs B had signed 
to confirm she accepted. And it says its not unreasonable for it to expect its customers  to 
have read and understood the terms of their finance agreement  and associated  documents 
before signing  to accept  them.
In addition, VFS says a dealership may provide quotes for a lower  mileage allowance  as this 
often reduces payments and allows them to provide lower quotes which may be more  within  
a customers budget. And it says ultimately  it is the customers decision as to the mileage 
they require and may wish to accept, depending upon the suitability of the quote.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Bs complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  
Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. She said she was severely  misled  and 
the dealership  misrepresented the terms of the agreement at the point of sale.  She said it 
was made  very clear about the value of the car when she came  to upgrade  at the end of the 
term and at no point  was negative equity discussed.  And she said the dealership was clear 
that her intention would be to upgrade  to a new car at the end of the agreement.  
Ref: DRN47796712Mrs B also said when  she found  herself in the position whereby the dealership wasnt  willing  
to honour the guaranteed  future value she was left with little option  but to buy the car, due to 
the value the dealership was placing on it.  
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
I see under  the terms of Mrs Bs PCP agreement she was given three options when it came 
to an end. She could  pay the GMFV (also  referred  to as the optional final payment) of 
£9,607.50 and keep the car; she could  return  the car to VFS; or she could part exchange it 
for a new car.
I think its important to note that the GMFV is intended to reflect the anticipated value of the 
car at the end of the agreement, but it doesnt mean the car will definitely  be worth that 
amount. Mrs Bs agreement  was for 41 months and market conditions  for used cars could 
potentially change quite  significantly over that length of time.  Sometimes  cars are worth 
more than the GMFV at the end of PCP agreements, which is obviously beneficial to the 
customer if they want to keep the car or to trade it in for a new car. But equally,  as in Mrs Bs 
case, the car may be worth less than the GMFV.
I note the valuation of £8,000 wasnt sufficient to enable Mrs B to trade the car in for a new 
one. So, instead  I understand  she reluctantly decided  to make the optional final payment of 
£9,607.50 under the terms of her agreement and keep the car. But there was a third option 
she couldve  considered  of simply handing  the car back with nothing  further  to pay, subject 
to the terms relating to matters such as mileage  and condition. And its worth noting that if 
shed done that, the shortfall  between  the GMFV and the actual value of the car wouldve 
been borne  by VFS, rather  than by Mrs B.
Im satisfied the terms Ive referred  to were  clearly set out in the agreement Mrs B signed. I 
note Mrs B believes  the dealership misled her into believing the GMFV meant she was 
guaranteed the car would be worth at least £9,607.50 at the end of her agreement,  thereby 
giving her a trade in value of at least that amount. And I see shes  explained that other 
members of her family were also present during the discussions with the dealership.
But, given the clear terms of the agreement Mrs B signed and in the absence of any other 
information supporting this aspect of her complaint, I cant  conclude  its most likely the 
agreement was mis-sold to her.    
I see Mrs Bs also expressed concern about  the fact that she was given two alternative  
quotes for a new car finance agreement, one based  on a contract mileage of 13,000 and the 
other based on 8,000 miles.  And I see Mrs B says she believes this was used  to try to gain 
a sale by reducing the monthly payments and mislead her.
But the level of agreed mileage is usually  an important  factor  in determining  the monthly  cost 
of a car finance  agreement. And I dont think theres  anything wrong in a dealership 
presenting options  to a customer based  on more than one possible contract mileage figure.  I 
Ref: DRN47796713also think what really matters is that this was ultimately a decision for Mrs B. And I havent  
seen anything indicating  she was improperly  encouraged  to sign up to a mileage  allowance  
that was inappropriate for her needs.  
So, for these reasons  I cant fairly  and reasonably uphold Mrs Bs complaint.   
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint against  Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.    
                  
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4779671