K821x#15Complaint
Mr C complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) lent 
money to him that he couldn't afford to repay.
Background
Our investigation into this complaint, and the final response letter provided by Satsuma 
Loans, was based on six loans being  provided to Mr C as follows:
Loan Amount Term Date Repaid
1 £300 39 weeks 13/03/2015 15/12/2015
2 £200 52 weeks 15/07/2015 18/07/2016
3 £220 52 weeks 05/07/2016 01/18/2017
4 £150 10 months 10/01/2017 01/12/2017
5 £250 12 months 03/04/2018 outstanding
6 £200 12 months 08/06/2018 outstanding
Through the investigation information was provided  in regard to a seventh loan, taken out in 
October 2018 (after  the final response letter was issued). This seventh loan was for £400  
and repayable over 12 months. Satsuma Loans has provided a response  in regard to this 
loan as well.
At the time of the loans, Mr C says he was struggling to pay his normal living expenses  and 
his priority debts were  going unpaid. He says he had other  outstanding debts and was 
borrowing from multiple loan providers. Mr C says that adequate checks weren't carried out 
before the loans  were provided  and that the loans added to his financial issues.
Satsuma Loans  says that before loans  are provided applications go through a full credit  
worthiness and affordability assessment  using  both internal and external data sources. It 
provided information regarding the income  and expenditure  data it gathered before loans 
one to six were provided and said that these showed the loans were affordable. It said that 
credit checks didn't raise  any concerns. Satsuma  Loans later sent a loan summary  
document regarding loan seven and confirmed that loans five to seven were still outstanding.
Our adjudicator said that she didn't have enough  evidence to say that the first two loans 
shouldn't have been provided but thought  that lending  from loan three onwards was 
unsustainable. As the information at this time only related to six loans she upheld this 
complaint in regard  to loans three  to six.
Satsuma Loans  didn't  respond to our adjudicator's view. It did provide information in 
response to our question  about loan seven. As a resolution wasn't agreed this case was 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to issue a decision. My decision covers all seven  loans but 
as the seventh  loan wasn't subject to the original assessment and view I am issuing this as a 
provisional decision to allow  the parties  the opportunity to respond  to my comments  if 
desired.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Ref: DRN41552412I did not find that I had enough to say that the first two loans shouldn't have been 
provided;
by the time the third loan was provided, Mr C had been  consistently borrowing for 
around 16 months. He took out a second loan before the first was repaid and likewise  
the third loan was taken out before the second was repaid. I thought this should  have 
raised concerns  about how Mr C was managing his money  and that he had likely 
become dependent on short term borrowing;
Mr C continued to take out loans and while there  was a gap of a few months between 
when Mr C repaid his fourth loan and when he took out the fifth loan I didnt think  it 
would have been reasonable for Satsuma Loans  to conclude  this was any indication  
that Mr C's finances had moved  on from whatever situation had required his previous 
loans; and
the amounts  Mr C was borrowing didn't significantly reduce over his period of 
borrowing and I didnt  think  it reasonable to conclude that loans three  to seven were 
sustainably affordable for Mr C. 
Mr C accepted my provisional  decision and also said that he had received  contact  from a 
debt recover company. I didnt receive any further  information from Satsuma  Loans.
My findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma Loans  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma Loans should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer.  These factors  
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN41552413I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma Loans was required to 
establish whether  Mr C could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't  automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook ("CONC"), defines  sustainable  
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower won't be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if they're unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  
borrowing further.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, I've carefully considered all of the arguments, 
evidence and information provided in this context and what  this all means for Mr C's 
complaint.
As no new information has been  provided  in regard to the loans that I covered  in my 
provisional decision, my position has not changed.  As I have already set out I do not find that 
Satsuma Loans  should have considered loans three to seven as being sustainably  
affordable and so I uphold  this complaint in regard to these loans.
Mr C has provided a copy of a communication from a debt recovery  company acting on 
behalf of Satsuma Loans. I have set out below what actions need to be taken to resolve this 
complaint and addressed what needs  to take place in the event Mr Cs account has been 
transferred to a third party.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  three to seven.  If Provident  
Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) has sold the outstanding debts it should  
buy these back if it is are able to do so and then take the following steps.  If it is not able to 
buy the debts  back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below.
I understand that loans five to seven  remain outstanding and based on this I find that 
Provident Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma Loans) should:
A.add together  the total of the repayments made  by Mr C towards interest,  fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance,  not including anything  that 
has already refunded;
B.calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mr C which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr C originally made  the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C.remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  outstanding loans, 
and treat any repayments made  by Mr C as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr C having  made  overpayments  then 
these should be refunded  with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  from 
the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
Satsuma Loans should then refund the amounts calculated  in "A" and "B" and move  to 
step "E";
Ref: DRN41552414D.if there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in "A" and "B" should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus 
then the surplus  should be paid to Mr C. However if there  is still an outstanding balance 
then Satsuma Loans should  try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr C;
E.the overall pattern of Mr C's borrowing  for loans three to seven means  any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so all entries  about  loans three  and four, and loans  five 
to seven when  the principal that was borrowed has been  repaid, should be removed  from 
Mr C's credit  file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident Personal Credit  Limited  to take off tax from 
this interest. Provident Personal Credit Limited  must  give Mr C a certificate showing how 
much tax it's taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4155241