K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is brought on behalf  of the Estate of Mrs B who complains that PSA Finance 
UK Limited  mis-sold Mrs B a Personal  Contract Purchase (PCP) for a new car.
Background
In June 2017 Mrs B visited a dealership  and discussed purchasing a new car. Mrs B 
explained to the salesperson that she was going  to give her current  car (that she had owned  
for the past 10 years) to her grandchild  and wanted to replace it with a new car.
Mrs B decided that a particular make and model fitted her needs and completed  a PCP 
agreement. The car was ordered the following day and Mrs B duly collected it when it was 
delivered to the dealership.
Very sadly and within only five weeks of acquiring  the car Mrs B was diagnosed  with a 
terminal illness and passed away. Her executors made enquiries about returning the car. 
They were  informed that the car could only be returned if 50% of the amount of credit 
financed under the agreement was paid or alternatively the settlement amount of £9,743.69 
was paid to keep the car.
The executors were unhappy with these options  and complained to the dealership  that the 
PCP had been mis-sold  to Mrs B on a number of grounds. These were her age (she was 
around 70 years); that she had been  in poor health when she visited the dealership;  that she 
was entitled to acquire a car via the Motability  Scheme as she had been in receipt  of 
Disability Living Allowance  (DLA) for many years; that her full needs hadnt  been 
considered; that the terms that would  have applied in the event of her death werent full 
explained; that there were errors  in the finance proposal document and Mrs B hadnt  
understood the terms of the agreement.
The dealership didnt uphold the complaint  made on behalf of the Estate of Mrs B. It said that 
it had spoken  with the salesperson concerned who had said that Mrs B had attended the 
dealership on two occasions, each  time accompanied by one of her grandchildren. It was on 
the second visit that the car had been ordered. It also said Mrs B had never  raised using the 
Motability Scheme with the salesperson  but simply explained she had wanted to replace her 
car as she was passing her old car on to her grandchild. And as Mrs Bs previous  car hadnt 
been leased no discussions took place  in terms of leasing. It said Mrs B appeared to want  to 
own the vehicle.
The dealership said that while the salesperson  had noticed Mrs B had a persistent cough 
she hadnt said anything  about being unwell. 
The dealership said a standard finance proposal had been submitted to PSA with the details 
provided by Mrs B. There was no need for proof  of income or expenditure at that time. PSA 
had accepted the application without it needing  to go to the underwriter and although there 
was an error  as to how long Mrs B had lived in her home it didnt think this wouldnt have 
altered that decision. 
The dealership said there was no evidence  that Mrs B had been pressurised into taking out 
the PCP. It said the terms of the agreement werent  onerous and there  was no obligation on 
the business to discuss  Mrs Bs age or what would  happen in the event of her untimely  death  
with her when talking with her about  the PCP.
Ref: DRN41976042The executors were unhappy at the dealerships response and complained  to PSA as the 
finance provider.  PSA didnt uphold the complaint. It said it didnt accept that the PCP had 
been mis-sold to Mrs B. 
PSA said Mrs B had signed the Adequate  Explanation Document  showing that she 
believed the PCP suited her needs and shed had an opportunity to seek independent  
advice or ask further questions if shed wanted.  She had signed  the PCP agreeing  to its 
terms and conditions.
PSA said the Estate of Mrs B had three options  open to it which were:
A family member took over the contract, or
That the Estate of Mrs B paid the settlement figure of £9,743.69 and could then sell 
the car on, or
The Estate of Mrs B paid the voluntary termination amount of 50% of the total credit 
borrowed under  the agreement  and returned  the car.
The executors were unhappy at PSAs response and on behalf  of the Estate of Mrs B they 
complained to this service. Our investigator didnt recommend for the complaint to be 
upheld. He said he thought PSA had acted fairly.
Our investigator said no one had known of Mrs Bs illness at the time shed acquired the car 
so it was difficult to confirm her state of mind  at the time. She had gone to the dealership on 
three separate occasions at least once  when accompanied. She had signed the 
documentation and it appeared there  had been time for her to consider whether the PCP 
was right for her.
He said he didnt think the discrepancy about the length of time Mrs B had been  at her 
address would have altered the decision to accept her credit  application.
Our investigator said Mrs B had also completed  a customer satisfaction survey  that had said 
the salesperson  hadnt tried to hard sell the car to her. Mrs B had also recorded on this 
survey that I knew  what I wanted and what I could afford. That is what  I got thank you.
The executors disagreed  with our adjudicators view. They  said they were concerned that the 
simple application  for finance form had been  completed by the salesperson and they were  
unsure whether the discrepancy about  the address would have been something PSA would 
have checked  up.
They said that theyd  seen Mrs B had visited the dealership three times in one week and felt 
this was a short period  of time within the normal cooling off period  for a finance deal. They 
said she had been unwell  and was waiting for test results. They believed shed acted hastily  
and wasnt her usual  rational  self when entering into this agreement. They  said it would have 
been clear she had been unwell at the time though the severity of that illness was unknown.
The executors said that from statements made by Mrs B before she died it had been clear  
she thought the car could be handed  back  without  any penalty before  the end of the 
agreement. They said this meant  she hadnt  understood the terms and conditions  of the 
PCP.
Ref: DRN41976043The executors said that Mrs B could have afforded a new car but had wanted the payments 
to be funded by her mobility payments under DLA.  While the PCP had achieved  this so 
would have an agreement  under  the Motability scheme. If, as had been said,  Mrs B had 
wanted to own the car, then this wasnt achievable  under a PCP until the end of the 
agreement and the salesperson should have advised her of that and advised  about other 
options.
As the parties couldnt  agree then the case has been passed to me. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I would like to add my condolences  to Mrs Bs family for her unexpected death. I 
appreciate that bringing this complaint will only have  added  to their distress.
Ive seen that the executors dont  agree  with what the salesperson had said about  Mrs B 
being accompanied when  she first visited the dealership. But its agreed that Mrs B had 
wanted to replace her old car as she was going  to give it to her grandson  as his first car. And 
that her grandson  had gone to the dealership with her when she collected the new car.
The executors are concerned that Mrs B should  have been  advised by the salesperson  that 
she should apply  for a Motability contract  rather than looking at other types of finance 
agreements. But I havent seen any evidence  that the salesperson  would have been aware 
Mrs B was eligible for a Motability car. The car Mrs Bs was planning  on giving to her 
grandson had been owned by her for some  years.  Ive also seen she hadnt had a car under 
the Motability Scheme  for many years  so I dont think its likely she would have told the 
salesperson she could take advantage of this scheme. And as details of her income werent  
required for the completed finance  document I dont think its likely the fact she was in 
receipt of the mobility  component  of DLA would have come  out in discussions with the 
salesperson. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect  the salesperson to ask about 
disability benefits  because of Mrs Bs age as I think some customers  could be upset by that 
question.
The executors have raised concerns  that this finance document  contains errors.  Ive seen 
that Mrs B was correctly  described as retired and it has her date of birth. The error  is in 
regards to the length of time at her home address.  However she had been  at her previous 
address for many years  and was a home  owner. I dont agree that this one error meant that 
her application  for credit  wouldnt  have been approved.  I dont think  that this error shows  that 
there was any bad faith on the part of the salesperson as they were only recording what they 
had been told. I also dont  think its unusual  for a salesperson  to complete paperwork.
Looking at the satisfaction survey  Mrs B completed around one month after acquiring  the car 
I can see she had attended the dealership with a budget in mind  and this had been kept to 
by the salesperson. I appreciate the executors are unsure if Mrs B completed  this survey but 
I dont have any evidence  to believe its been  fabricated.
Ive seen that Mrs B attended the dealership on three occasions and spent time with the 
salesperson discussing  the type of car she needed. She chose a make and model that she 
believed suited her needs. She said in the satisfaction survey  she wasnt  pressurised and if 
she had been  she would  have left the dealership. Mrs B was unwell at the time but no one, 
Ref: DRN41976044including her, was aware of how severely  ill she was. I dont  think I can reasonably say the 
salesperson should have  been alerted that Mrs Bs health was an issue  when they were 
discussing cars with her. Ive no evidence she behaved in a way that would cause  anyone  to 
think she wasnt capable of making a rational decision  about what  she wanted. And the fact 
that she collected the car accompanied by family members would have meant that family 
was aware of her decision to acquire  this new car at the time.  
The executors say that Mrs B didnt understand the terms of the PCP as she believed  she 
could hand the car back at any time. Ive seen Mrs B had owned her previous car outright  for 
many years. Where evidence is missing is contradictory I have to decide  what I think  is the 
most likely thing to have happened. And here I think its more likely than not that Mrs B did 
express a wish to potentially own the car and so I think it was reasonable that the 
salesperson didnt discuss leasing options  to her. 
The executors say that if ownership was the important  issue for Mrs B then care should  
have been taken to ensure she understood the PCP and other options to finance  were 
discussed. However under both PCPs and hire purchase agreements cars arent owned 
by the consumer until the final payments are made.  A PCP is set up in a similar way as hire 
purchase agreements.  Both have monthly payments that go towards buying the car, the 
difference is that with PCP there is a balloon payment that can be made at the end of the 
agreement if the consumer wishes to keep the car. If they dont want to keep it they can 
simply return it without  paying this final amount. This means  that for PCPs  the monthly 
payments are often  lower and can make them more popular than hire purchase agreements.
As the PCP, unlike a hire purchase agreement, gave  Mrs B the option to return the car at the 
end of the agreement if she no longer wanted or needed a car I cant  say it was an 
unsuitable product..  
I appreciate that the executors feel strongly  Mrs B didnt understand the terms of the 
agreement and that the salesperson should  have done more to ensure she did. But Ive seen  
that she signed the Adequate Explanation Document to say the agreement  was suitable 
and had time between visits  to the dealership to decide if she wanted to proceed.  She then 
signed the PCP agreement. Ive also seen she spent time with the salesperson. I think, 
looking at the evidence, that its likely that the PCP was fully explained to Mrs B but that she 
possibly didnt fully understand the hand back process. However, I dont think  any 
misunderstanding was the fault of the salesperson as unknown  to everyone Mrs B was very 
unwell at the time and I think that may have had an impact on her. I dont have evidence that 
the salesperson  pressed or hurried any discussions with Mrs B.
Ive seen that there is no suggestion the PCP or indeed the car was unaffordable for Mrs B. 
And I have  no reason  to think she didnt want or like the car.
So although  I appreciate this will be of disappointment to the executors, Im not upholding 
the complaint  brought on behalf of the Estate of Mrs B. I think PSA has acted fairly in 
providing the options it has and Im not asking it to do more. And I dont think  it would be fair 
or reasonable in these circumstances for the car to be returned  with nothing to further  to pay 
as I dont accept  the dealership and consequently  PSA has done anything wrong.  
My final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the Estate of Mrs 
B to accept  or reject  my decision before 4 December 2019.
Ref: DRN41976045Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4197604