K822xcomplaint
Mrs D complained an adviser with Price  Ferguson  Limited failed to recommend  she take out 
Lifetime Allowance (LTA) protection. She said that she has missed  out on two opportunities 
to apply for the protection  and is now hugely  out of pocket. 
background 
The complaint has been investigated at this service. There have been a number of different 
arguments to deal with. Most of those have  now been resolved. This decision is mainly  
about explaining what I think is fair compensation  for the loss caused by Price  Ferguson. I 
have set out the background  about what happened and the arguments  made  by both parties  
below.
Mrs D had been a client of Price Ferguson  for a number of years. She was a member  of a 
company pension scheme (part defined benefit - DB, part defined contribution - DC). She 
also had a Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP).
A number  of meetings were held with Price Ferguson from April 2013 onwards during which 
LTA protection,  and the possibility of transferring  from her company pension  to a drawdown  
plan, were discussed. Mrs D says that despite  discussing  the potential  need for LTA 
protection on a number  of occasions, at no point was she advised  to put any protection  in 
place. Mrs D made plans to reduce her hours at work.
In February 2016  the adviser made notes of a meeting. These notes show  that Mrs D was 
concerned about  moving her occupational pension funds to a drawdown plan and was now 
thinking of taking her pension  from the DB part of the scheme.
Mrs D emailed the adviser on 29 March 2016  and asked if she should be protecting  her LTA.  
She chased this again on 14 April, which the adviser acknowledged and said he would get 
back to Mrs D.
In July 2016 Mrs D moved to a new adviser.  In November  2016, she complained to Price  
Ferguson that she ought to have been  advised  to arrange LTA protection  in 2014.
In February 2017  Mrs D transferred her occupational pension to a SIPP.  The value was in 
excess of £1.5m. She has now paid a substantial tax charge.
Price Ferguson  said that as Mrs D intended  to take benefits from the DB scheme there  was 
no need to apply for fixed protection. They also pointed  out that individual protection 2016 
was available  to Mrs D.
Mrs D and her new adviser made  the following points:
The DB scheme had been changed  many  times.  The result  has been  to create a 
hybrid scheme with both DC and DB benefits.
The salary for the DB accrual  was frozen  on 1 October 2005  then only increased by 
LPI.
From  1 October  2013  the DB accrual salaries  were completely frozen.
Each time the DB accrual was changed  the DC arrangement was increased  to 
compensate members for the reduction in the DB section.
Ref: DRN44526592Mrs D was also working part-time.  This further  reduced the benefit to her of 
continuing accrual in the DB section.
Mrs D would have accepted increased  salary  in lieu of employer contributions  to the 
DC section.
Calculations were  provided to show that Mrs D would benefit by about £12,200 if she 
continued accrual in the DB scheme  and paid tax at 40% or about £16,282 if she 
paid tax at 20%. The contributions to the DC scheme and expected growth in her 
pension funds meant the LTA charge would exceed  any benefits she received by 
staying in the DB scheme.
The calculations provided showed  that Mrs D should have been advised  to apply for 
Fixed Protection 2016.
Mrs D wrote to me. She said:
She was upset that the meeting she had with Price Fergusons adviser on 
29 February 2016 had not been  reported  correctly. She provided her own notes of 
the meeting, which had been  made at the time. She totally refuted the claim that she 
had finally decided  to stick with the DB scheme and not to take the transfer.
During the many meetings she had with the adviser over the years he had always 
advised taking  a transfer at retirement.  Her notes of the meeting  on 29 February  
2016 confirmed  that she asked the adviser  to go through the pros and cons  of 
drawdown compared to the DB scheme.  She had not made a decision about which 
route to choose at that time, as she hadnt  decided on a day to retire and had to give 
12 months notice in any event.
They also discussed her lifetime allowance. The adviser told her she was roughly  
£100,000 over the £1 million limit. He asked  her to request an estimate of the early  
retirement figures for June 2017.  These  were obtained and sent to the adviser. She 
did not hear any more  from the adviser,  she asked  about protecting  the LTA and 
chased this.
She finally made up her mind  to retire during June 2016. It was at this point she 
decided to change  financial adviser. She did not make a final decision about 
transferring or sticking with the DB scheme until December 2016.
I set out my findings  in a provisional decision.  These were as follows:
Fixed Protection 2014
The adviser met with Mrs D in November  2013 and again in March 2014. The agenda  and 
notes for these meetings indicate  that the adviser  was thinking about the impact of the 
reduction in the LTA to £1.25  million.  The valuations of Mrs Ds total pensions  came to just 
over £1 million at that time. This assumes  that Mrs D transferred her defined  benefits in 
order to take drawdown. The total value was still some way below the £1.25 million limit. 
Mrs D was continuing to work and accrue additional  benefits. Ive thought about the value of 
the DB Scheme benefits, but these  were still a benefit to Mrs D. As her total benefits were 
still below  the LTA at that time Im not satisfied  that the adviser should have recommended 
she applied  for fixed  protection in 2014.
Ref: DRN44526593Fixed Protection 2016
I think the decision about whether to apply for fixed protection in 2016  was much more  
difficult. By this time Mrs Ds pension benefits were  worth just under £1 million  if she took 
benefits from the DB Scheme.
It is agreed that Mrs D and the adviser at Price Ferguson had discussed taking benefits from 
the DB scheme  over a number of years. They agree  the intention  had been for Mrs D to 
transfer her benefits.  It is only the advisers  notes  of the meeting on the 29 February 2016 in 
which there is an indication Mrs D intended  to take benefits from the DB scheme.
I am faced with a conflict of evidence about  what Mrs D intended to do. If Mrs D continued to 
accrue pension  benefits  and took the benefits from the DB scheme it appears likely that 
individual protection 2016 would have protected most of her lifetime  allowance.
Following the meeting  in February 2016 Mrs D sent emails to the adviser asking  for advice 
about whether  to apply for fixed protection  2016. The adviser  didnt respond to those emails. 
He has explained  this was due to a combination of factors as he was away  on holiday and 
then was busy. I think it is also relevant that when  Mrs D approached a new adviser she was 
given advice to transfer her pension benefits. This means that all of the advice given to 
Mrs D both before 29 February 2016 and subsequently was on the basis that she would 
transfer her pension benefits.  The only mention of taking the benefits directly from the DB 
scheme was in the advisers notes of the meeting in February 2016. But these contradict the 
notes made  by Mrs D about the same meeting.
On balance, I am not satisfied that Mrs D had made a decision to take her benefits  from the 
DB scheme.  She was still seeking advice from Price Ferguson  about whether to apply for 
fixed protection. And I think the advice should have included the way Mrs D should take 
benefits. Mrs Ds new adviser has shown that the value of the benefit by continuing  accrual 
in the DB scheme would be at most about £16,000. I think the potential  tax charge as a 
result of not applying for fixed protection in 2016  could  be significantly more than that. 
I think if the adviser from Price Ferguson  had gone  back to Mrs D that the advice was likely 
to be to transfer her benefits; or that was likely to be considered  as an option.  Transferring 
the benefits was likely to give a higher value for the purposes of fixed protection.  If Mrs D 
chose that route a significant tax charge would be incurred. It now seems  to me that applying 
for fixed protection in 2016 would  have been the right approach.
Individual Protection  2016
Mrs D has applied for individual protection 2016. That has been obtained for an amount of 
£1,131,811.
The loss is therefore  the additional  tax that Mrs D will pay as a result  of not applying for FP 
2016 compared to the position she is now in having  applied for IP 2016.
Price Ferguson  accepted  my provisional  decision and made an offer to Mrs D. 
Ref: DRN44526594Mrs Ds new adviser  did not recommend that she accepted the offer.  The main points that he 
thinks should be included  are:
The excess LTA charge is 55% of £118,189 = £65,004 extra  tax. If it is paid as a one 
off payment.
If the LTA charge  was paid as 25% and 20% income tax on the remainder the extra 
tax charge would  be £47,728. Mrs Ds income is being managed so that she is a 
basic rate taxpayer.
The difference between the individual protection gained and the fixed  protection  that 
should have been  applied for is £118,189. Mrs D is a basic  rate taxpayer and so the 
extra tax to be paid would be expected to be about 55% - 20% = 35% of that figure 
about £41,365.
The extra benefit accrued within the pension scheme was £16,281. (This figure has 
been agreed and I accept it is a reasonable estimate.)
The extra tax charge less the benefit accrued is therefore £47,275 - £16,281 = 
£30,993.
In addition, Mrs D has agreed to pay fees to her new adviser. It was necessary for 
her to have advice about the issues involved.  A total of 50 hours has been  spent  
dealing with the complaint.
Mrs D has suffered  significant distress and an award of £3,000 should be made  to 
compensate for that distress.
I put these points to Price  Ferguson. A revised  offer was made to Mrs D. The loss because 
of the extra  tax was lower,  but £3,000 for the advisers fees was included. A payment  of 
£300 for the distress and inconvenience  was also offered.
Mrs Ds new adviser  didnt  accept  the revised offer. He said it is clear to him that paying the 
55% tax charge is better  for Mrs D. After that charge  is paid the remaining 45% is available 
to Mrs D with no further tax to pay. For an untrained eye it would look obvious that 25% plus 
20% would be lower than 55%. However, each  case is different and Mrs Ds income  is being  
managed up to the threshold maximums.  He said that leaving funds in the pension  would 
leave extra tax to be paid as 25% plus 40% = 65%.
I wrote  to Mrs Ds new adviser to explain that the 25% tax is deducted first. The remainder  of 
the fund is subject to income tax at the pension holders marginal rate of tax. That means the 
total tax charge is 25% + (0.75 x 40%) = 25% + 30% = 55%. 
I explained that I thought  Price Fergusons offer was fair and asked if Mrs D wished to 
accept it. She did not. The file has been  returned to me to determine the outcome for this 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  this complaint 
should be upheld  for the reasons given in my provisional decision and repeated above.
Mrs D has obtained individual protection for £1,131,811. The rest of my findings  will deal 
with the arguments about the loss Mrs D has suffered.
Ref: DRN44526595fair compensation
My aim is to put Mrs D in the position she would be in if she had received suitable advice. In 
my view, that would  have  been to stop further pension accrual and apply for fixed  protection 
in 2016. 
Financial loss
Mrs D has applied for individual protection 2016. She paid a tax charge for the difference 
between the amount protected  under fixed  protection  2016 and individual  protection 2016. 
However she did accrue additional  benefits  in the DB scheme. The transfer value has 
increased and so the increase in transfer  value as a result of the additional accrual should 
be deducted from the loss.
The difference in the fixed  protection 2016  and individual  protection  is £118,189. There will 
be a LTA charge  on that amount. If any of the difference is taken as a lump  sum the LTA 
charge of 55% is paid before any income  is taken.  This is what  Mrs D has done. There  is no 
further tax to pay on the remaining 45% of the difference.
If the difference had been taken as income  then the LTA charge of 25% would have been 
paid before the income was paid out. The income  would  then be subject to tax in the usual 
way. So, after paying 25% the remaining 75% of the fund would be subject to income  tax at 
Mrs Ds marginal rate. This would  be 25% + 0.75 x 40% = 55%.  It can be seen that broadly 
speaking the LTA charge would be the same.  
Mrs Ds new adviser  argued that the extra tax should be about  35% of the £118,189 this 
would be £41,365.  I disagree with this point. Had fixed protection  2016 been in place, Mrs D 
would have been able to take 25% of the difference as a tax-free cash lump  sum. The 
remaining 75% would be subject to income tax  whether the protection  had been in place or 
not and whether she was a basic or higher  rate taxpayer.  Her loss can been  seen as the 
25% cash lump sum that she has lost to, in effect,  pay the LTA charge. So, Mrs Ds loss is 
25% of the £118,189, or £29,547. From  that must be deducted the extra  benefit accrued  
within her employers pension scheme, valued at £16,281.
Price Ferguson  produced  a calculation showing the total payments that would have been 
made to Mrs D with and without fixed protection 2016. This assumed that she would  pay tax 
at 20%.  After allowing for the 25% LTA charge the value of the net extra pension benefits 
accrued was deducted. This showed  a loss of £13,266. I have  reviewed the calculations and 
agree with them.
Advisers fees
I am able to make an award for professional  fees.  It is unusual  for this service  to do so. But, 
in this case I thought  that there  were  a number of complex issues. I thought it was necessary  
for Mrs D to have assistance  to make her complaint. However, I did not uphold  the complaint 
about fixed protection 2014. There were also issues that the new adviser had not applied for 
individual protection 2016. On balance, I thought a payment for 20 hours  of work was 
appropriate. This was £3,000.
In addition to the financial  loss, Price  Ferguson has offered to pay £3,000 towards the fees 
that Mrs Ps new adviser had agreed with her.
Ref: DRN44526596Distress and inconvenience
I also think Mrs D has been caused  some distress and inconvenience  by the lack of the 
advice she received. I think an award of £300 to compensate for that distress and 
inconvenience is appropriate in the circumstances.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Price Ferguson Limited  must  now pay Mrs D compensation as 
follows:
Financial loss £13,266
Fees £3,000
Distress and inconvenience £300
If my award is not paid within  28 days of Price Ferguson receiving Mrs Ds acceptance 
simple interest should be added to my award at a rate of 8% gross a year from the date of 
my decision  to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4452659