K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Ageas Insurance Limited  caused a long delay in dealing with a claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy and that it wont refund his policy excess.
background
On 3 August  2017 Mr M was involved in a collision  that he didnt  think was his fault.  He 
reported it to Ageas  a few days later. Ageas recorded it as notification  only.  It says at that 
stage Mr M didnt  want to make a claim on his policy. A few days  later Ageas was told by the 
other drivers  insurance company that the other  driver  held Mr M at fault for the accident. 
Ageas got full details of the incident  from Mr M and sent them to the other insurer. It said he 
wasnt at fault, but took no other  action,  as Mr M had a representative acting for him.
In January 2018 Mr Ms representative told Ageas that the other insurer had offered to settle  
the claim with liability  split 50:50.  The representative  thought  that was reasonable, but Mr M 
wouldnt agree  to it. Ageas told the other insurer again that Mr M held the other driver fully at 
fault. On 26 February  2018 Mr M said he wanted  to claim on his policy.  Ageas decided  his 
damaged car was a total loss and paid Mr M the market value for it on 6 March 2018.  
As the other  insurer  wouldnt deal with Ageass outlay, it instructed its solicitors  (firm C) in 
June 2018. By August 2018  firm C had issued pre-legal action letters to the other  insurer. 
But its solicitors started  proceedings against Ageas in October 2018. Since then, the court  
process has been underway  and a date of hearing  is awaited.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ms complaint. She thought  Ageas had acted 
reasonably and hadnt caused undue delay. She noted that Mr M hadnt  made  a claim on his 
policy for six months. And she said Ageas had no control over the time the court process 
took. The investigator also said that Mr Ms policy excess refund would depend on the 
outcome of the hearing. Mr M asked  for a review  of his complaint by an ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
Its clear from Ageass file notes  that Mr M didnt  make a claim on his policy in August 2017. 
It seems  he wanted to claim on the other  drivers policy, but that wasnt  possible, as the 
other driver didnt accept  full liability for the accident.  Mr M rejected a split liability offer from 
the other insurer five months later, so the dispute continued. 
As the other  insurer  hadnt accepted full liability it didnt inspect and arrange for the repair  of 
Mr Ms car, as hed hoped. So in January 2018 Ageass engineer  inspected  it.
In his view, the damage to Mr Ms car was consistent with Mr Ms version  of events.  Ageas  
passed that on to the other  insurer, but it made  no difference  to its stance.  Shortly 
afterwards, Mr M decided  to claim on his policy. I think Ageas then acted quickly  to pay him 
for his written-off car. 
The policy required  Mr M to pay the agreed  excess if he made any claim on it. The excess  
or part of it - is normally recovered  from the other insurer,  depending on whether  it accepts  
full or partial liability. Ageas told Mr M in April 2018  that it would try to recover  its outlay from 
the other insurer. It said it would take legal action if that didnt  happen. Ageas instructed 
Ref: DRN40205532firm C in June 2018. I dont think there was any undue  delay  in doing so. I think  it was 
reasonable for it to liaise with the other  insurer first. 
From July 2018 to October 2018 firm C was dealing  with the other insurer  and its solicitors.  It 
seems firm C had issued  the two standard letters required before legal action can start by 
August 2018.  Firm C told Mr M to say it was carrying out other necessary paperwork up to 
the point where  the other insurers  solicitors  told Ageas that it was issuing proceedings in 
October 2018.
Ageas queried  with firm C whether there was any delay during this time.  I think its possible 
that there  was, but if so, I think  it was relatively  minor. And theres  no evidence that it had an 
effect on the claim. Firm C told Mr M it didnt matter which  party issued proceedings, as the 
judgement will be based on the evidence from both parties. It also said that it had added 
Mr M to the proceedings in November 2018, so he could recover his losses. It said the court 
didnt inform the other solicitors of that for a further  two months.  It also said the timing  of the 
rest of the process was in the courts hands.
I understand Mr Ms frustration with the process. The damage to his car was dealt with some  
time ago. But until (and unless) the claim is settled fully in his favour, he wont get the full 
policy excess back and his premiums  wont be adjusted. Ageas was limited  in what  it could 
do for the first six to seven months. I dont think theres any evidence of undue delay on its 
part after Mr M made a claim on the policy until after it instructed firm C. I think  firm C issued 
the pre-action letters within a reasonable time. Its possible  it could have  issued proceedings 
before the other solicitors  did. But once the legal process started, I think any delay has been  
due to holdups  and queues in the court system.   
Although progress since November 2018 has been slow, unfortunately theres nothing 
Ageas can do about it. Mr M thinks the two insurers should be able to sort the matter out. 
But that isnt possible  where one or both of the parties holds the other  fully at fault. Theres 
no option but to wait for a hearing. I dont think Ageas  has caused undue  delay, or that it 
should have refunded Mr Ms policy excess,  so I cant  uphold  his complaint.    
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under Financial  Ombudsman  Service 
rules, I must ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4020553