K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA)  refused to give him details of the 
breakdown of the total cost of a fault accident  hed had. He also says it didnt  give him proof 
of his no claims discount (NCD) and that he was given  inconsistent information about when 
his policy  would lapse.
background
In 2016 Mr C asked  AXA to provide him with a breakdown of the total cost of a claim. AXA 
initially only provided  Mr C with dates  for two claims. Shortly after this it provided  information, 
which gave the total cost of the complaint he was asking about - but not details of how this 
amount was made up. Mr C has told us that he had to request this information on numerous 
occasions.
AXA has said it didnt think Mr C had requested a breakdown of the cost and it wouldve 
provided this information  if hed have  asked for it. Following  conversations with our 
investigator and clarification of what information Mr C wanted, AXA provided the information. 
Mr C has also told us that AXA hadnt provided  him with details of his NCD. In response AXA 
has told us when Mr Cs policy lapsed  in October 2016, NCD documentation wouldve been  
available to him  but in the meantime Mr C wouldve had access  to this information through 
his online  renewal invite.
Mr C has said that AXA told him his policy was set to expire  a day sooner than was detailed 
on his renewal notice.  AXA looked  into this and said that, due to a system error, the date on 
the renewal notice was incorrect.  But in view of its error, it agreed to extend the policy  so it 
ran for an additional day. 
Unhappy with how AXA had dealt with his complaint,  Mr C brought  his complaint to our 
service and one of our investigators looked  into things. She said she didnt think  that AXA 
had understood  that Mr C was asking for a breakdown of the total cost.  But - as it has now 
provided this information, proof of Mr Cs NCD and honoured  Mr Cs policy for a further day 
 she felt this was a suitable outcome to the complaint.
Mr C disagreed and so this complaint has been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided not to uphold  
this complaint and Ill explain  my reasons  why.
From the information Ive seen, I dont think it was clear to AXA that Mr C was asking for a 
full breakdown of costs.  Within an email chain in September  2016, where Mr C is requesting 
the details of the cost, I can see Mr C has said I would  appreciate  full guidance  on this 
matter. With the benefit of hindsight, I can see how this may have been Mr C requesting a 
breakdown of costs   however, I dont  think its clear and I can understand why AXA didnt 
provide the information that Mr C was hoping  for. I cant see anywhere  else where Mr C has 
clearly asked for this information.  
Following our investigators intervention, I can see AXA provided the information to Mr C. I 
think its most likely  this was the first time AXA had realised  the specific information Mr C 
Ref: DRN49965282was asking for - and Ive seen it then gave  this information promptly. It also indicated that it 
wouldve provided it sooner if it had realised this is what Mr C was looking for and, from what  
Ive seen, Ive no reason  to doubt this. 
Ive thought about what Mr C has said about  being told the incorrect  date for when his policy 
would lapse. AXA agreed it did send Mr C incorrect information about  this  in that Mr Cs 
renewal notice showed his policy would lapse  a day later than it was actually scheduled to. 
In recognition of its error, AXA agreed  to honour the later date and it sent an indemnity letter 
to Mr C to confirm this. All things  considered,  I think  this was the right thing for AXA to do 
and is what I wouldve expected.
Looking at the NCD, AXA has said it didnt have a record  of Mr C complaining  about  not 
having this information. Our investigator  was able to clarify that this information  wouldve  
been available to Mr C after his policy lapsed,  but in the meantime it was available  for him 
online. From  what Ive seen, I dont  think AXA had any intention  of withholding this 
information and it clarified its availability promptly on request.
Taking everything into account,  it seems to me that there has been  some breakdown in 
communication about what information  Mr C was hoping for. While I recognise Mr Cs 
strength of feeling,  I think AXA has ultimately acted fairly and reasonably and I wont be 
asking them to do anymore.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Stephen Wise
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4996528