K822xComplaint
Mr H complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent irresponsibly to him. 
Background 
Between August 2016 and July 2018,  Mr H borrowed 17 loans from Lending Stream. The 
borrowing history is set out in full below: 
Our adjudicator thought there was a significant gap between Mr H borrowing loans 5 and 6, 
which meant there were  two chains of lending. The first chain comprised  loans 1 to 5 and the 
second chain  was loans 6 to 17.  She didnt think Lending Stream  should  have agreed  to 
lend loans 13 onwards because by this time, it should have been clear that the pattern of 
borrowing was harmful. 
Lending Stream accepted what our adjudicator said and it offered to settle the complaint on 
that basis. Mr H didnt  agree. He said he thought  all the loans should be removed from his 
credit file. 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been  passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Loan Date taken out Date repaid Principal £
1 23-Aug-16 31-Aug-16 360
2 10-Sep-16 02-Oct-16 300
3 10-Oct-16 31-Oct-16 250
4 02-Nov-16 30-Nov-16 400
5 10-Dec-16 28-Feb-17 810
6 07-Sep-17 29-Sep-17 150
7 17-Dec-17 28-Feb-18 500
8 15-Feb-18 28-Feb-18 300
9 09-Mar-18 29-Mar-18 500
10 16-Mar-18 29-Mar-18 350
11 16-May-18 29-Jun-18 200
12 24-May-18 29-Jun-18 300
13 22-Jun-18 29-Jun-18 250
14 24-Jun-18 29-Jun-18 100
15 29-Jun-18 31-Oct-18 600
16 07-Jul-18 28-Sep-18 300
17 14-Jul-18 28-Sep-18 50
Ref: DRN49925542Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr H could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mr H could sustainably repay the loans   not just whether the loan 
repayments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.  
I think our adjudicator was right when she said that there  were  two chains of borrowing  in 
this case. I can see that there was a break of just over six months between loan 5 being  
repaid and Mr H applying for loan 6. For that reason,  Ive also treated this as two chains of 
borrowing and so Lending Stream was entitled  to treat loan 6 as an entirely new application.  
I have dealt with each chain separately below. 
Loans 1 to 5 
Ref: DRN49925543As I said above, early  in the lending relationship, I think it was proportionate for Lending  
Stream to rely on the information Mr H provided  when it was deciding whether to agree his 
loan applications.  
I can see that when  he applied for this borrowing, Lending Stream  asked  Mr H to provide 
details of his income  and expenditure. Based  on the figures provided, I can see how Lending 
Stream reasonably  concluded that Mr H would  have been able to sustainably repay this 
borrowing. I can also see that it undertook a credit  check which did not reveal any adverse 
information. On that basis, Im satisfied that the checks  Lending  Stream undertook  up the 
point of loan 4 were  proportionate and its decision to lend was not irresponsible.
By the time Mr H applied  for loan 5, I think Lending Stream  should  have probably asked 
more questions about Mr Hs financial circumstances. But I havent been  provided with any 
information to suggest Mr H was in particular  financial difficulty  at that time and so I dont 
think Lending Streams  decision  would have been  different even if those further  checks  had 
been undertaken. I cant then say Lending Stream was irresponsible  to agree  to lend loan 5. 
So I dont  uphold the complaint in respect  of the first lending chain. 
Loans 6 to 17
As I said above, I think Lending Stream  was entitled  to treat loan 6 as an entirely new 
application. So early  in what was now a new lending relationship,  I think Lending Stream  
was entitled to rely on the information  Mr H gave  it about his finances. 
I can see that it again enquired about his income and expenditure and from the answers Mr 
H gave, that the loans  would have appeared to be sustainably affordable. Lending Stream  
also undertook a credit check, which showed  that he did not appear to be overindebted and 
his credit score was generally  fair.  I cant say that Lending Stream  was irresponsible to 
agree loans 6 to 10. 
In respect of loans 11 and 12, I think Lending  Stream could have probably probed  further  
into Mr Hs finances to further satisfy itself that the borrowing was affordable. But as set out 
above, I havent seen anything to suggest  that its decision would have been different even if 
that level of checks  had been  undertaken.  According  to the credit report, he appeared to 
have four active credit accounts at that time,  and I havent seen anything to suggest he was 
in financial trouble. Again, I cant say Lending Stream  was irresponsible to agree these 
loans. 
However, Ive also looked  at the overall  pattern  of the lending history  with a view to seeing if 
there was a point  at which Lending Stream should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. If that point was reached, Lending Stream  should  
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Hs case, I agree with our adjudicator  that this point 
was reached by loan 13. I say this because  Mr H had taken out eight loans in just over nine 
months. The first loan in this chain (loan  6) was for £150, but by loan 13, Mr Hs 
indebtedness had increased such that this loan was for £250.  He wasnt  really making 
inroads to the amount  he owed Lending  Stream and had paid large  amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Lending Stream over an extended period. 
Ref: DRN49925544I think that Mr H lost out because Lending Stream continued to provide borrowing from loan 
13 onwards because these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness 
by allowing him to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended period 
of time. The number of loans and the length of time over which Mr H borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
On that basis, Im upholding the complaint about  loans 13 to 17. Lending Stream will need to 
take action to put things right as set out below. 
Mr Hs credit file 
Before I set out what Lending  Stream must do to settle this complaint, I just want to 
comment on what Mr H said about removing the loans from his credit file. 
I can see from his correspondence  with Lending Stream that he is not happy  because these 
loans appear on his credit file and he says this is having a detrimental  impact on his ability to  
obtain a mortgage.  That being  so, I appreciate why he is so keen to have the entries  
removed. 
However, in circumstances such as this, I can only tell Lending  Stream to remove  
information from Mr Hs credit  file where  Im satisfied that the lending  was harmful. And for 
the reasons Ive set out above, I can only say that test was met in respect of loans 13 to 17. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H on that point.  
Putting things  right 
Lending Stream must: 
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 13 to 17
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan 13 onwards  means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 13 to 17 should be removed from 
Mr Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest.  
Lending Stream must give Mr H a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
I have upheld this complaint in respect of loans 13 to 17. Gain  Credit  LLC (trading as 
Lending Stream)  must  put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2020.  
Ref: DRN49925545Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4992554