K820x#14complaint
Mr M, a director of a limited company, S, has complained about Ss business insurance  
provider, Covea Insurance plc. It has declined a claim S made following a fire, Mr M said this 
has been very upsetting.
background
There was a fire at Ss food premises in March  2019; it started on the grill and an employee 
tried to put it out, but it spread into the canopy  above and into the extraction ductwork. The 
fire brigade  attended  and had to remove sections  of the ceiling and a flat roof to stall the fire. 
Part of the extraction ductwork collapsed due to the fire, and some roof timbers were 
affected. There was also extensive smoke  in the premises, which  had also affected some 
flats above (owned by the landlord that let the food shop premises to S).
Coveas loss adjuster  attended the premises and was concerned  that the fire might have 
started due to, or been  made worse by, the ductwork not having been cleaned.  This was 
relevant as the policy contained a warranty which said it must  be cleaned  every six months 
by a professional.  A forensic expert  was appointed. The forensic expert  attended the 
following day. Mr M told him the ductwork  had never been cleaned.  The expert noted burnt 
grease residue in the damaged ductwork.  He concluded that:
much of the damage would probably have  been avoided had the char grill, canopy  and 
extraction duct been cleaned satisfactorily and sufficiently often to ensure that they were 
relatively and reasonably  free of grease. In [sic] am unaware of any evidence to indicate that 
a duct cleaning warranty stipulated by the Insurer had been complied with and, in my view, 
any such breach would be material to the damage  caused as a result  of the fire.
Covea told Mr M it was declining  the claim. Mr M presented Covea  with a duct cleaning 
certificate dated May 2018. He said he had only just discovered that an ex-employee had 
arranged for cleaning to be done. Covea had concerns about the document  but felt, if it was 
genuine, it didnt  assist S as it was dated 10 months  before  the loss. When Covea 
maintained its decline  of the claim,  Mr M complained to this service.
We asked Mr M if he had any documentation  to show the canopy had been  cleaned. He said 
the documents had been destroyed in the fire. He also said that the manager who had dealt 
with matters such as cleaning was out of the country, so it wasnt possible to contact the 
cleaning company to get confirmation. Mr M later told us that he thought  the policy only 
required the ductwork to be cleaned every  12 months. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as he thought Covea had acted fairly and 
reasonably. Mr M said this had been very upsetting. Our investigator explained that we can 
only consider upset where weve found failings. Mr M asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this has been a distressing time for Mr M. But I can only look at upset 
caused by failures  of an insurer,  such  as where  an insurer  unfairly declines a claim.
Ref: DRN45524882Mr Ms company, S, had an agreement for insurance cover with Covea.  Part of that 
agreement was that:
7. All cooking  ranges  exhaust hoods ducting  and flues of the apparatus be Inspected and 
cleaned at least once  every 6 months  by an Independent qualified  contractor  and all greasy 
deposits removed  and not allowed to accumulate.
S did not clean the ducting  as required  by the terms of the policy, and as agreed to do so by 
it when it accepted the terms of the policy. Whilst Mr M did provide a document  to Covea to 
show the ducting was cleaned in May 2018, this was not within  six months of the date of the 
fire which occurred in March 2019.  The forensic expert which  assessed the fire confirmed 
that had the ducting been  cleaned, or been  cleaner  than it was, the fire would not have 
spread and most of the damage would have been  avoided.  
Covea has satisfied me that S breached the policy  warranty,  and that its breach was material  
to the loss which occurred. Therefore, in my view, Covea acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining the claim.  That being the case I cant make it do anything else or take into account 
the fact that its decline caused upset.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Covea Insurance plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4552488