K820x#14complaint
Ms T says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance  
(MPPI) policy, which included  life and critical illness cover.
background
Ms T took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage  in 2003. She paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ts case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ts complaint because:
I think  Bank of Scotland  made  Ms T aware  that she had a choice about buying  the 
MPPI, and that she chose to take it. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to Ms T, and it seems  to have been right for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She had some  sick pay 
and savings. But the MPPI wouldve  paid out on top of this and for longer, which 
wouldve left her sick pay and savings available for other things. 
The life and critical illness parts of the policy were provided  on a level term basis. The 
level of benefit  was chosen  to top up her existing cover  through her employer and 
ensure that Ms Ts mortgage would be paid off if she had to claim. I think  a decreasing 
term  where  the amount of benefit would decrease with whats  owed  on the mortgage  
wouldve been  more suitable.  But the decreasing  term policy  that wouldve been 
available to Ms T at that time wouldve been  more expensive.  So there has been no 
financial loss suffered as a result.  
I think  its possible  that Bank of Scotland couldve explained the cost of the policy better 
than it did. But even if it had, I think Ms T would  still have  bought  it. This is because  the 
cost wasnt prohibitive.  And while Ms T says she was struggling financially  at the time, I 
think the cover  provided  wouldve been  important  to her  it wouldve ensured that she 
didnt fall behind with her mortgage repayments   and risk losing her home  for up to 
two years. And thats  longer than her sick pay and savings wouldve lasted. 
Its possible  that Bank of Scotland didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But Ms T doesnt appear  to have been  affected by any of those things.  
Ive taken into account Ms Ts comments,  including what shes said about  having a claim 
declined and the mortgage  and MPPI  originally being  set to run past her expected  retirement 
age. But these points  dont change my conclusion.  If Ms T feels  the claim was unreasonably 
Ref: DRN44065602declined, she may be able to make  a separate complaint about that. And the MPPI was a 
monthly contract that could be cancelled at any time  so her expected retirement  date didnt 
make the MPPI unsuitable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4406560