K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Canada Square  Operations  Limited (CSOL), trading as Egg, 
mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 2000, Miss B took out a credit card with CSOL and at the same time she was sold PPI. 
The PPI protected  her monthly card repayments if she was unable to work because of an 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Miss B disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Miss B applied for her card online.  Weve looked in some detail at CSOLs processes  from 
that time and how it generally sold these policies online. And we know  from what weve seen 
that the online application required  the consumer to either say that they wanted  or didnt 
want  PPI before they could progress to the next stage  of their application.
As this sale took place  a long time ago, its not that surprising that CSOL doesnt still have a 
record of the online  form Miss B completed. But Ive seen copy screenshots  of the form used 
by CSOL  at that time. From these, together with my knowledge of similar  sales,  I think  
Miss B would have  been able to see she had a choice about  whether or not to take the PPI 
offered. And I think she had PPI added to her card account because she clicked  the Yes 
box to indicate  she wanted to take the cover. 
CSOL has also provided copies of Miss Bs monthly credit card statements. These show  that 
she was regularly being charged  for PPI - described as Credit  Card Repayment Protection 
on the statements. And I think that if shed never  asked for the PPI, she would have wanted  
to know what these  charges were  for.
So from what Ive seen,  I think that Miss B actively decided to take PPI, knowing that she 
had a choice.  But I can understand why she may not recall this now.
As this was an online sale of PPI, I dont think that CSOL  would have recommended the 
cover to Miss B. This means that it didnt  need  to ensure that it was suitable for her. But it did 
still need to give her enough  information  for her to decide if she wanted to take it.
Ref: DRN41863872I can see from the screenshots CSOL has provided  that the cost of the PPI is given. And a 
summary of the PPI policys terms and conditions was also available to look at online. 
Nevertheless, I still think that the information  which CSOL gave  Miss B could have been 
better than it was. But from what I know about  her circumstances at the time, I dont think  
better information would  have  changed  her mind  about taking the cover. I say this because:
Miss B appears to have been  eligible  for the policy and not affected by any of its main  
exclusions or limitations.
Miss B says she didnt  need the cover  the policy gave her. This is because she was 
entitled to a redundancy payment and sick pay from her employer. She says she also 
had some savings and other insurance cover, and could have relied on her parents to 
support her in need. 
But this policy would  have  paid out in addition to any other  means that she might  have 
had available  to her. It could have provided up to twelve  months  repayment  cover if she 
was unable to work  because  of an accident, sickness  or unemployment.  And the cost 
and level of benefit provided  by the policy compared reasonably favourably with many  
other similar policies being  sold by competitors at that time. So I still think she would 
have valued the extra security that the policy  gave  her if things went wrong and thought it 
was worth paying for.
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable  for Miss B. And as the premiums were 
paid monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.
So I dont  think that Miss B has lost out by anything that CSOL  may have  done  wrong  when 
it sold her the PPI.
Ive thought about what Miss B has said and why she disagrees with our adjudicators view. 
But this hasnt changed my mind  about not upholding  her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against 
Canada Square  Operations Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4186387