K821x#15Complaint
Mr O complains that the car he leased through a hire agreement with PSA Finance UK 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
Background
Mr O entered into a hire agreement to lease a new car in July 2018. He says that since 
taking possession of the car a fault light has come on a number of times. He has had to have 
the car recovered  due to this and despite trying to have  the car repaired  he says the issue 
remains and he has been told it cannot  be repaired.  He says the light is coming on every  
200 miles and the car isnt of satisfactory quality.
The dealership has explained that the light is coming on in Mr Os car because it is not being 
driven in a way that will allow the diesel particulate filter (DPF) to regenerate. It says Mr O 
would need to drive  the car at a constant speed of 40 miles per hour or more for 20 minutes 
and that once this has happened  the DPF should  clear and the light go off. It says if the car 
isnt driven in the required way it is not uncommon  for the DPF to become blocked. PSA 
Finance didnt uphold Mr Os complaint as it said that issue  with Mr Os car was due to his 
driving style. 
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He noted the comments  about driving style but said 
that given how often the issue  was occurring it was more likely than not that there was a fault 
with the vehicle irrespective of the driving  style. He said that given when the issue first arose,  
and that the car was new at acquisition,  he didnt think the car was of satisfactory  quality. 
Repair attempts  had been made and he thought it now fair that Mr O be allowed to reject  the 
car and have a portion of his advance payment refunded. He also thought that Mr O had 
been caused distress  and inconvenience due to the issue  and said PSA Finance should pay 
him £300 compensation because of this.
PSA Finance didnt accept our investigators view. It said it had discussed the issue  with its 
technical team and that it didnt deem the car to have a manufacturing  defect. It said that all 
diesel cars needed to be driven in a certain way for the DPF to regenerate  and if these 
conditions are rarely met the mileage  between regenerations will reduce. 
Mr O noted in response to our investigators  view that he did drive  the car for longer than 
20 minutes at 40 mph but that the issue still occurred. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O leased his car under a three year hire agreement  with PSA Finance. Under  the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015, PSA Finance can be held liable if 
the car Mr O leased wasnt  of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality 
takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and what  a reasonable 
person would expect  taking  into account  all the circumstances. Mr O leased a new car so it 
is reasonable to expect  that it would be free from faults (including any minor  defects)  and 
that the car would be sufficiently durable.
Ref: DRN40251492There is conflicting evidence in this case and so I have  had to make my decision based on 
the balance of probabilities. That is what I consider  most  likely  to have happened based on 
the information available.
For me to uphold this complaint I need  to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. Given when the warning light started  to come on it is 
reasonable to expect  the issue to be investigated at no cost to Mr O which has happened.  
These investigations havent found a fault and instead have put the issue  down to driving 
style. 
I note Mr Os comment that if driving  style was an issue he should have been told about it at 
the showroom.  However  I would not expect the workings of the DPF to be explained unless 
a question was asked relating to this. DPFs have  been a feature of diesel cars for a number 
of years and I would expect a consumer to be aware of these  and ask any questions  they 
have before deciding on hiring  a diesel car.
If the issue is solely due to how Mr O drives the car then I do not find that I would be able to 
uphold this complaint.  However, in this case I do not find that this is clear. Mr O has said that 
he regularly drives for more than 20 minutes  at over 40 mph and has provided  further  details 
of the journeys he makes.
I have looked  at the job cards and can see that the car was returned to the dealer in 
November 2018,  at which time it had been  driven just over 5,000 miles. The job card says 
that the car is drinking the exhaust  fluid and Mr O had needed to top this up with 5 litres 
three times since July. The fault was cleared at this time.
However the fault light came on again and Mr Os car was returned to the dealer in January 
2019. At this time the car had been driven just over 6,500 miles. The job card for this visit 
says the emissions  light was reset  but it is explained this is likely to come on again as the 
issue was due to driving  style. There is then an email from the dealer saying: 
we had noticed that the fault light came on at the same time the regen happened. This is 
because too many gases  are being stored and then when a regen happens its sending all 
the gases through the exhaust because there is a lot there is too much  for the sensors  to 
monitor and therefor bringing your engine light on. This is down to a lack of use.
To fix the fault whilst  it was in with us we have cleared the fault codes from the car but we do 
think if the car is used  in the same way the warning  light will be back  on again.
The car had to be recovered to the dealer in May 2019 when the mileage was 8,730.
Mr O has reported the fault light coming on at intervals of around 200 miles. In the email  
from the dealer  it says the regeneration should  happen around every  900 miles.
In this case it appears that the car needs  to regenerate  more frequently  than would be 
expected. The job card from November 2018 suggests the exhaust fluids  needing to be 
topped up more than would be expected. I note that a fault hasnt been identified  but given 
Mr O has needed to return the car on several occasions and have the car recovered, I 
accept that it isnt driving as would be expected. I appreciate the comments  about driving 
style but also note Mr Os comments that he does drive in the required way. 
Ref: DRN40251493On the balance of probabilities, I find it more likely than not that there is an issue  with the car 
that means it is requiring regeneration and exhaust fluid top ups more frequently  than would 
be expected. This is ongoing as Mr O has sent a recent photograph  of his dashboard which 
shows the exhaust fluid as needing topping up. Given Mr Os comments about when the 
issues first arose and the frequency of the issues occurring  I find, on balance, that the car 
wasnt sufficiently durable.
Given this I think the fairest resolution to this complaint is for Mr O to be allowed to reject the 
car and have his hire agreement ended with nothing further owing.
Mr O has had reasonable use of the car to date. The three  year hire agreement had a total 
contract mileage of 24,000 miles and in May 2019, the car had been driven over 8,000  miles. 
In the recent photograph  of the dashboard provided  by Mr O the mileage is recorded as 
14,170. Given  this I find it reasonable that he is liable for the rental payments to date.
However, as the hire agreement is ending early, he should be refunded  a portion of his 
advance payment to reflect the early termination.  
I also think the issues with Mr Os car have caused  him distress and inconvenience and I 
agree with our investigators recommendation that he should  be paid £300 because  of this.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. PSA Finance  UK Limited  should:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Mr O;
refund  a proportion  of the advance hire payment  of £777.67, to reflect the reduced 
amount of time Mr O had the car compared  to the original 36 month  agreement. This 
should be calculated  as the pro rata amount  for the period from the date of 
settlement to the agreement end. 8% simple  interest should be applied on this 
portion of the redress.
pay Mr O £300  in trouble and upset for the amount of times hes had to return  his car 
to the dealership; and
remove any adverse information  that may have  been applied  to Mr Os credit file in 
regard to this agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4025149