K822xComplaint
Ms M, who is represented by a legal firm I will call S, complains that Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VFS) hasnt  refunded  her for the time when her car was being 
repaired.
Background
In March 2016 Ms M acquired a second  hand car. It cost £99,512 and was funded by a hire 
purchase agreement  with VFS and a deposit  of £10,153.70.  Ms M encountered  number  of 
problems which have  been set out in some detail by both S and the adjudicator. I wont  
rehearse those  details yet again  in this decision.  In short, the car was returned to the dealer 
on several occasions some of which were for routine  servicing and tyre replacement.  The 
faults included  a number of electrical  related failures  including  the ACC  sensor  unit and 
blower motor.
In April 2018 Ms M reported  a fault with the parking sensors and the dealers discovered  
there had been  water  ingress. The engineers report states:
To my surprise I find the water coming  in through the passenger side sill, through the little 
hole where the loom  clips into. When I pulled the loom from the sill, the water poured in. It is 
the door sill drains blocked that sit behind the door sill trims under the vehicle so this isnt a 
serviceable item. Confirmed warranty. Wax melts in the sill and fills the bungs on a warm 
day and becomes runny, fills the bung, then solidifies when cool, blocking the drains.
The car was repaired, dried out and returned to Ms M, but she took it back some  eight days 
later to have a booster speaker repaired which had suffered water damage.  The car was 
ready for collection on 18 May, but Ms M didnt collect it. S wrote to VFS on 14 June to say 
Ms M wished to reject the car. That letter refers to Ms M having asked to reject it previously, 
but I have not seen  any evidence of that.
VFS responded to say that the fault arose  25 months after purchase and it didnt consider it 
was present at the point of sale. However, the dealer offered Ms M two options to resolve  
the matter. It suggested it buy the car off her for a favourable value of £68,000 which would 
leave her with a surplus of £1,712.52. Alternatively  it offered  her an extended two year 
warranty and to cover her next service. This was valued at £3,449.  These offers were 
rejected in early  September.
In early October the dealer says Ms M enquired  about the cost of two cars it had in stock.  
Shortly afterwards it was notified that the car was being used as a part exchange  in a deal 
with another dealer and Ms M asked that it be ready for collection and I believe she collected 
it on 24 October.
In July S brought  a complaint to this service on behalf of Ms M. It was considered by one of 
our adjudicators who considered that VFS should compensate Ms M for the trouble and 
upset due to the number  of problems and suggested  sum of £250. S didnt agree and 
suggested that Ms M had exercised her right to reject and she should have her deposit  and 
monthly payments  returned less a mileage  charge. It said this amounted  to £41,581.95.  
Alternatively it suggested Ms M could be entitled  to a pro rata refund of her deposit for 
25 months usage which amounted to £2,901.06
Ref: DRN41237272It added that if the dealer had accepted the car had a defect in May Ms M could have  sold it 
for more than she did. It would have  saved her six months instalments totalling  £9,162.78.  I 
asked S for details  of what had happened to the car and what it had been sold for. It said 
Ms M had part exchanged  it and had been  valued  at £71,500 which  had cleared her hire 
purchase debt.
I issued a provisional decision as follows: 
I explained that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I needed to have regard to the 
relevant law and regulations, regulators  rules,  guidance and standards  and codes of 
practice and (where  appropriate) what I consider  to have  been good industry practice at the 
time.
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VFS is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I could see that the car, which was almost new, suffered a number of faults. Although no 
independent report  was sought by either  party it appeared  that in April 2018 the underlying  
cause of some of the issues the car had suffered was identified.  It seemed to me that the 
water ingress may well have been  the cause  of some, if not all, of the electrical problems.
The dealer  said there  was no manufacturing  fault,  but the mechanics report above 
suggested otherwise.  Wax was melting and solidifying which  caused  water to sit in the car. It 
would appear  that this was an intermittent issue dependent on weather conditions. I 
presumed the wax wasnt put in the car by Ms M or anybody  else and it followed that it was 
present at the point of sale. I gathered it had no effect unless conditions were such  that it 
caused a blockage and so the water found  its way to other parts of the car causing damage.
When the leak was identified the car was repaired and dried. The damaged electrical  units 
were replaced and the car returned  to Ms M. However, it appeared that one electrical item 
was overlooked, the booster speaker which had suffered  from water  damage.  This was 
repaired week or so later.
I said there were a number of issues to consider, firstly was rejection reasonable and given it 
wasnt pursued and was no longer possible what would be reasonable compensation?
Ref: DRN41237273It was clear the car had a fault which I was satisfied, because  of what  I had said above, 
meant the car which  was supplied was not of satisfactory quality. The dealer was entitled to 
one opportunity to effect a repair and it failed  to identify the root cause and therefore didnt 
repair the underlying problem. It merely repaired those items which had been  damaged  due 
to water ingress. As such I considered rejection  would have been a reasonable response.
If I had been able to recommend rejection I would have asked that VFS terminate the 
agreement and take back the car. I would also have asked it to return  Ms Ms deposit with 
interest. I wouldnt  have suggested  her monthly  payments  be returned. She had use of the 
car and when it was being repaired she was offered a courtesy car, though  I gather  she 
didnt always take that option.
As for the period from May to the car being sold I noted Ms M chose not to collect the car. I 
believed it was in working order and ready for her to use if she so desired. As such  I didnt 
consider it necessary to refund her payments during this period.
Ms M told me that she part exchanged  the car for £71,500 and VFS said that the outstanding 
finance paid off by her was £64,376.  She paid a deposit of £10,153.70.  Therefore  I 
considered VFS should refund the deposit less the surplus achieved when she sold the car 
of £7,124 which amounts to £3,029.70. I said it should pay interest and compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused in getting  this matter resolved of £400.
VFS agreed  with my provisional decision, but S did not. He said that in the event of a 
rejection the finance agreement should be unwound. As such it would be treated as if it 
never existed and so expunges the liability to make  monthly payments. However he agreed 
that Ms M should pay for her use of the car. He said that once Ms M invoked her right to 
reject VFS should have  repaid her deposit  and she should no longer have been  liable for 
monthly payments.  
He said my proposed  redress rewarded VFS with a further six monthly  payments due to it 
illegitimately denying her right to reject. He argued  that VFS should  be entitled to either  the 
six months payments  or the surplus  achieved over the sum owed on the finance agreement. 
He concluded  that Ms M was entitled the return of her deposit and the wasted six months 
finance payments.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted Ss arguments and while they are most elegant  I remain  unpersuaded that his 
conclusions reach  a solution which is fair and reasonable  to both parties.  
Let me begin  by addressing the use of the car, or the non-use of it, during the last six 
months. I am satisfied  that it was repaired to a satisfactory standard in May 2018  and was 
available for use by Ms M. I consider it was her choice not to make use of it. I dont believe 
her right to reject would have been  undermined by her taking it back  to use while that right 
was pursued.  As such I dont think VFS can be held responsible for her decision not to take 
the car back. I would  add that the dealer didnt charge storage fess as many others would do 
in this situation.
Ref: DRN41237274If Ms M hadnt  sold the car the normal redress this service would propose would be that VFS 
take the car back  and refund her deposit  plus interest. If she had been  denied use of the car, 
or a suitable  replacement, for a period of months then it would be appropriate for part of her 
monthly payments  to be refunded.  I am satisfied that a courtesy car was made  available  
when required by Ms M and so I dont consider she was denied use of a car by the dealer 
during the time hers was being repaired.
I dont consider it reasonable to back date the redress to the point at which a rejection 
request was made. This service would normally only give effect to a decision once it has 
been accepted by the consumer. Therefore, if the car hadnt been sold a successful 
complaint would have resulted in Ms M having no car, but her deposit back plus interest. 
Assuming she agreed VFS would  have had the car back and have been able to sell it. 
What actually happened is that as a result of her selling the car she obtained a price in 
excess of what she owed  and was able to put that towards  a new car. This means  that rather 
than having £10,153.70  plus interest to pay as a deposit she had only had £7,124.  In order 
for her to be put back  into the positon she would have been  VFS needs to make  up this 
shortfall. It should pay her £3,029.70 plus interest. 
I believe the interest should  be calculated as if the full deposit was being repaid. That means  
it is calculated on £7,124 from the date the deposit was paid until the car was part 
exchanged and on £3,029.70 from the date the deposit was repaid until it is paid by VFS. I 
consider she is also entitled  to compensation for the distress and inconvenience of £400.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to:
pay Ms M £3,029.70.
pay her interest at 8% simple as set out above
pay her £400 for the distress and inconvenience  she suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4123727