K822xThe complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold them  Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP) policies in 2004, with their joint mortgage  and when they re-
mortgaged in 2006. 
What happened
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which typically includes mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) together with other features,  such as life insurance and critical illness cover 
(CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the consumer 
wishes. 
Mr and Mrs P was covered for all elements of the TMPP   PPI, life and CIC when they took 
out their mortgage  in 2004. But they were only covered for life and CIC when they re-
mortgaged in 2006. For both policies they paid a monthly amount. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided to partially  uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why. 
Did Mr and Mrs P agree to the TMPP?
Mr and Mrs P and Halifax agree the policies were taken out during  a meeting. And during 
each meeting, Halifax shouldve made Mr and Mrs P aware the TMPP was optional. 
These events were obviously a long time ago now. We dont have much documentary 
evidence to refer to because Halifax no longer has any copies. This is unfortunate, but not 
particularly unusual given  how long ago the sale was.
However, Ive looked at the main points  of complaint put forward by Mr and Mrs P. The key 
one is that they were  told it was essential to take the TMPP to have the mortgage 
approved. Whilst I accept this may well be their genuine belief now,  weve seen quite a few 
similar sales  to this from that time period. And as a result, weve looked in detail at what  
Halifaxs sales processes  were like.
We know for example  that consumers were  normally  sent or given a letter about the types 
of cover theyd agreed to at the mortgage  interview. This usually set out that consumers, 
like Mr and Mrs P, had accepted the recommendation  to have certain, or all, elements of 
the TMPP policy.
We were also sent some  screenshots of Halifaxs internal computer system. Ive seen  
quite a few of these  before and I also know from experience  that they show, as in this case,  
that Mr and Mrs P were asked several questions relating  to the cover theyd agreed to buy. 
Because I think what was keyed into the Halifax computer system,  would  have been  done 
at the time of the mortgage  interview   I think its most likely  all aspects of the TMPP were 
probably discussed in some  detail. 
Ref: DRN47010102Finally, I can see that policy benefits were  split 75:25  with Mr P being  covered for the 
largest percentage. And whilst all elements  of the policy  were  sold to both Mr and Mrs P in 
2004, they only took life and CIC in 2006. This further leads me to think  they discussed 
different forms of protection with Halifax  and took the level of cover most  suitable for their 
circumstances.
So overall, I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs P agreed to the TMPP at the time of the 
mortgage interview and sale.  
Were Mr and Mrs P given suitable  recommendations?
Halifax accepts it recommended the TMPP to Mr and Mrs P. So, it had to make  sure it was 
suitable for them.
For both sales Halifax says that it should  have  sold Mr and Mrs P a decreasing term 
assurance, instead of a level term assurance. This is because their outstanding mortgage  
debt was being gradually reduced  so their payments for life and CIC cover should have 
reflected this over time too. For the 2004  sale, Halifax  has provided evidence  to show that 
the decreasing  term assurance would have been  more expensive, so Mr and Mrs P havent 
been financially  disadvantaged by taking the level term assurance.  
For the 2006 sale, Halifax has shown that the decreasing term assurance would have been 
cheaper so has offered  to refund the difference plus simple interest.  I think this is a fair and 
reasonable offer in the circumstances.  
Only the 2004 policy  had the PPI element selected so I have  looked  at whether this element 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs P. They say they had good sick pay benefits  from their 
employers. In particular,  Mr P says he would  have been entitled to six months  full pay 
followed by six months  half pay.  But the PPI element of the policy would have  paid out 
alongside these  employee benefits. 
So, I dont believe any of the protections Mr and Mrs P had with their jobs rendered PPI, life 
protection or CIC unsuitable for them. Mr and Mrs P were relatively young at the time and 
not uncommonly, they were taking on a mortgage which I think would have been a long-
term commitment  for them. 
The life / CIC cover was designed  to help their next of kin cope with unforeseen or sudden 
financial uncertainty and I dont  think it was unreasonable that Halifax recommended  these  
elements as part of the overall TMPP policy. 
For the PPI element, I also think the recommendation that they take this was suitable. They 
both appear to have  been eligible for the PPI cover and not affected by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these policies. Their  mortgage was also secured against their 
home and so the consequences of them not being able to make  the repayments  could  have 
been serious. The PPI policy,  on the other  hand,  was designed to pay a monthly sum for up 
to 24 months if they had needed to claim. Which was longer than their employee benefits 
would have paid out for. 
Were they given enough information?
Ref: DRN47010103During the sale Halifax shouldve provided information which was clear.  I cant  say Mr and 
Mrs P were  told or given  all the information they should have been, but I think  they would 
have been easily able to see how much the TMPP cost and what  was covered. I think they 
would have also been given a copy of the policy rules.
Having carefully considered this case,  I think its much more  likely that Mr and Mrs P 
tailored the TMPP  cover  to suit their needs  of the time. I think  they probably agreed to the 
elements of the cover because it was something  they thought would be useful to have.  
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Mr and Mrs P some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling, and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Ps 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So, Halifax  
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs P paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
All this means I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So, Halifax  doesnt  need to refund what      
Mr and Mrs P paid for it. But Halifax has offered to give them  back some of the cost of the 
2006 TMPP as explained  above.  I dont think it needs to do anything  more. 
If it hasnt  done  so already, Halifax will make  arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs P now Ive 
issued my final decision.
My final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint. Bank  of Scotland plc will refund the difference between  the 
level term assurance and the decreasing term assurance costs  for the 2006  sale,  plus 
simple interest. I make no other award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 February  2021.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4701010