K821x#15complaint
J complains that Ulster Bank Ltd took too long to update the mandate for its account.
Mr M an officer of J brings this complaint on its behalf.
background
In December 2018 J asked Ulster Bank  to update  the mandate for the account.  By April 
2019 the mandate had still not been  changed. Mr M complained.
Ulster Banks explanation was it had done  nothing wrong. It said it was still within  the 
relevant timeframes for updating  the mandate.
Our investigator looked into Js complaint.  He recommended upholding it. He noted that this 
was an extremely simple  matter. Ulster  Bank said it was entitled to take this long to sort out 
the mandate according to its policy. We asked  it to send us its policy.  We received no reply 
to this request.  In the circumstances our investigator  concluded that Ulster Bank should pay 
J £150 for inconvenience.
Ulster Bank responded  to say that it was looking to settle this matter.  We heard nothing 
further from it. 
Mr M suggested the award  was far too low. He pointed out it was less than 25% of the 
annual fees J  had paid Ulster Bank  for banking with it. He suggested such an award would 
provide no incentive to Ulster Bank to improve the service it offers.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
This seems to be a very straightforward matter. J asked Ulster  Bank  to update  the mandate 
on its account. Ulster Bank took months to do this. It suggested it was entitled  to do this, but 
then didnt send  anything to us to support this stance despite  repeated  requests from us.
On the face of it, Ulster Bank did let J down. The bank merely needed to carry out what 
seems to be a simple administrative task. Something J clearly expects Ulster Bank to take in 
its stride  and to do efficiently. I think that is a reasonable  expectation.  Ulster  Bank has not 
sent us anything to show  that it has acted in accordance  with its own policy.  It is difficult to 
understand why this is so since I think it must  have  a copy  of its own policy  easily to hand.  In 
these circumstances,  I find that Ulster Bank  did cause J avoidable inconvenience.
Ref: DRN43053182The only remaining matter for me to decide  is how much compensation is fair. Ive noted 
what Mr M has said about Ulster  Banks failings, but Im not its regulator.  Its not for me to 
fine financial  businesses, and the awards  I make  arent intended to be a punishment or a 
way of trying  to make the bank treat its customers better. Rather I look at the individual  
circumstances of the complaint and make an award  that I think  reflects the impact of the 
banks mistake on its customer. Here, I can see Mr M has had to chase Ulster Bank quite a 
few times and it had promised J action and then not followed through on its promise.  I think 
this is likely to have  caused J inconvenience.
However, Ulster Bank  has continued to provide banking services which is what J has been 
paying fees for so I dont think it is appropriate  to say those fees ought to be refunded.
In all the circumstances I think  £150 is a fair award for the inconvenience that Ulster Bank 
has most likely  caused J to experience.
my final decision
My final decision is that Ulster  Bank Ltd must  pay J £150 for inconvenience.
Ulster Bank must pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which J accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4305318