K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt pay them the money  
they were due when  it realised it had miscalculated the maturity value of their with-profits 
policy.
background
Mr and Mrs Os policy matured in 2008 at which time they received the maturity payment. In 
2011 Aviva  informed them that it had miscalculated the maturity payment and sent them  a 
cheque for £1,960 made up of the shortfall in the maturity payment plus interest less the tax 
payable. Mr and Mrs O didnt encash  the cheque.
Mrs O emailed Aviva in August  2017  about what had happened in 2011 but didnt get a 
response. Aviva has said it couldnt trace the emails  and offered £300 for not having dealt 
with her emails which was accepted by Mr and Mrs O. 
Aviva then responded to the issues raised  by Mr and Mrs O after referral to us. It said it had 
correctly calculated what was due to them in 2011 so didnt make  any further offer. It 
reissued the cheque sent in 2011,  made  up of £1,861 shortfall in the maturity payment and 
gross interest of £122 based on 1% above the Bank of England  (BoE)  base rate.
Mr and Mrs O didnt accept that Aviva had correctly  calculated  what  was due as a result of 
the wrong maturity  payment being paid in 2008.  In particular they thought  Aviva  should pay 
an amount for the distress  and inconvenience caused and shouldve  calculated interest 
payable based  on 8% per annum, rather than the 1% above  BoE base rate it did use. They 
were also unhappy  they hadnt  been given a tax deduction certificate.
One of our investigators  considered their complaint. He pointed out that when Aviva had 
written in 2011 it had asked some questions about  tax. Mr and Mrs O said they hadnt  noted 
that at the time and withdrew  the complaint about  not being  given a tax deduction certificate. 
The investigator thought that Aviva shouldve calculated interest on the shortfall in the 
maturity payment from 2008  based on simple interest at 8% each year and should  pay this 
to the date it issued  a cheque to Mr and Mrs O in 2011 - less the interest  based  on 1% 
above BoE base rate it had already paid.
The investigator didnt  think an award  for distress and inconvenience should be paid 
because he wasnt satisfied Mr and Mrs O had suffered  any trouble or upset given the 
attempt to rectify the mistake in the maturity payment had taken place so long ago and they 
didnt encash  the cheque  or complain at the time.
Aviva accepted the investigators opinion but Mr and Mrs O didnt. They said that the 
investigator had overlooked the fact they only found  themselves  in the situation they were in 
because of the mistake  made by Aviva  - which mistake has caused  them  considerable 
frustration over the years. They said they wouldnt have needed to get stressed or engage 
with us but for that mistake.
They accepted they shouldnt be entitled to interest to date but said they shouldve  been 
allowed some  time to consider what Aviva had offered in October 2011 so interest  should be 
calculated until at least April 2012.
Ref: DRN46000382my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute about the main  facts in this complaint. Aviva got the maturity payment 
wrong in 2008  and tried to rectify this in 2011 by paying compensation. Although  the 
complaint initially  included an issue about  Aviva  not providing a tax deduction certificate at 
the time,  this is no longer an issue that Mr and Mrs O wish to pursue. Because  the rules 
about deduction of tax have now changed any interest payment is now paid gross anyway.
Aviva has now accepted interest  should be calculated on the basis of 8% per annum simple 
interest and has calculated what wouldve been  payable as at October 2011 on that basis,  
less interest at 1% over BoE base  rate as the investigator said it should do. 
So the issues in this complaint appear to come down to two things - the period over which 
interest should be paid and whether an award  for distress and inconvenience should  be 
made.
The investigator said that Aviva should  calculate the interest  payable  at 8% from maturity  to 
the date Aviva actually  sent a cheque that included interest at 1% over BoE base rate. For 
the avoidance of doubt I agree  with the investigator  that interest payable should  be simple  
interest at 8% each  year - which isnt now in dispute  by Aviva.
Mr and Mrs O argue  that interest  should be calculated over a longer period on the basis  that 
when they were sent the cheque in 2011  they wouldve need  time to consider this. But the 
letter sending the cheque didnt make reference  to this being  in full and final settlement of 
any claim in respect of the policy, or indicate  in any way that if they encashed the cheque 
they wouldnt be able to then claim they were entitled to more. So Im not persuaded they 
needed any significant time to consider their position before encashing the cheque  in 2011.
I note what Mr and Mrs O have said about an award  for distress and inconvenience. They 
have referred to having had considerable frustration over the years. But I have seen no 
evidence that they did anything between  Aviva telling them in 2011  it had miscalculated the 
maturity payment and 2017 when they contacted  Aviva about this - or that they were  in any 
way stressed or suffered  any other harm as a result of what  Aviva did. 
So I have  seen no persuasive evidence of any material distress and inconvenience that 
would justify an award. There was some  delay in 2017 but Aviva offered them £300 for not 
responding which Mr and Mrs O have accepted.
Mr and Mrs O has said that if Aviva  hadnt  made a mistake they wouldnt have had to come 
to us. I acknowledge that, but bringing  a complaint  of itself doesnt justify an award  for 
distress and inconvenience - we dont make such awards simply because  someone has had 
to complain.
In the circumstances the redress  payable is limited to simple  interest  at 8% each year from 
the date of maturity  until the date Aviva paid Mr and Mrs O in October 2011, less the interest 
it paid in 2018 based on a rate of 1% above BoE base rate. Aviva  has recently calculated 
that the amount due on that basis is £361.23 and sent this amount to Mr and Mrs O on 
19 February 2019.
Ref: DRN46000383my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons have  set out above. Aviva has to calculate  redress  
due as set out above and pay this to `Mr and Mrs O which I understand it has already done. I 
dont think any further redress is payable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4600038