K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited (Aviva) incorrectly told him that he 
wasnt eligible for an enhanced tax free lump  sum on a pension pot he held with it. He says 
this incorrect information has had a significant impact  on his financial situation.
Mr S also complains that Aviva  didnt set out how his tax-free cash had been  calculated 
when he took the lump  sum in 2018.
background
In 2011 an occupational pension scheme  Mr S was a member of was wound up. Mr Ss 
benefits were then moved into a buy-out pension plan with Aviva.
Mr S says that in 2015 ex-colleagues told him that they were eligible for enhanced tax free 
cash and that Mr S might also be eligible.
Mr S says he contacted  Aviva at the time and was told that he was not entitled to enhanced 
tax free cash.  Mr S says that if he had been given the correct information this would have 
completely affected certain financial decisions I had to make during  this stressful financial  
time and in many following years.
Aviva has no record  of any telephone  calls from Mr S in 2015. It does, however, have a 
record of an email from Mr S dated 27 October 2015. In the email  Mr S said:
I have been informed that some of my work colleagues have been able to take 33.3% tax 
free (not 25%)  please  confirm if this applies to my policy.
Aviva wrote to Mr S on 30 October  2015. It said:
To enable  us to recalculate Transitional Tax Free Cash  (TTFC) eligibility, please send your 
salary & service  details  (enclosed) at the earliest.  
Once we have this, we will issue the illustration  based on the revised TTFC, if any.
Unfortunately it does not appear that Aviva received a response from Mr S. As this was the 
case it wasnt able to check whether Mr S was eligible for an enhanced tax free lump sum 
from his pension pot.
In early 2016 Mr S requested a retirement  pack from Aviva.  This was sent to Mr S on 24 
February 2016. The covering letter explained that the pack included a form for Mr S to 
complete so that Aviva could provide a quotation  based on Mr Ss requirements.
It also said that it needed Mr S to complete  the salary and service details form. It does not 
appear that this information was returned to Aviva at this time, so no quotation  was provided.
In late 2018 Mr Ss financial adviser  contacted  Aviva  to request information on Mr Ss 
pension pot and details of any enhanced tax free cash Mr S might  be eligible for. Aviva  
responded to say that it would be able to provide details of any transitional tax free cash 
(TTFC) Mr S was entitled to when it received his salary, service and benefits details.
Once this information was provided Aviva confirmed  that Mr S was entitled to transitional tax 
free cash. Mr S instructed  Aviva to pay the maximum tax-free cash available  and to transfer 
the rest of his pension pot to another provider.
Aviva paid Mr S the tax free cash and remainder of Mr Ss pension  pot was transferred. 
Ref: DRN42243932Mr S was unhappy with Avivas service. He said he wasnt sure that his TTFC had been 
calculated correctly. He also complained  that it had told him that he wasnt  eligible for TTFC  
in earlier  conversations. 
Aviva provided Mr S with a copy of its TTFC calculations. And it said it didnt have a record 
of any calls Mr S had made to it in which it had told him he wasnt  eligible for TTFC.  Mr S 
wasnt satisfied with Avivas response  and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator said she didnt think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. In particular she 
said that, based on the information that had been provided she didnt think Aviva could have 
known whether Mr S was eligible  to take more  that 25% of his pension pot as tax free cash 
as it hadnt received details of his salary  and service until December 2018.  As this was the 
case it wasnt able to calculate Mr Ss TTFC.
She noted that Aviva had sent Mr S details of the calculation of his TTFC  on 18 June 2019. It 
also provided this service with information showing how the TTFC figure had been 
calculated. Based on this information, which our investigator shared with Mr S, she said was 
satisfied that Aviva  had calculated  Mr Ss TTFC correctly.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with our investigators view. He said he was still waiting for Aviva  to 
provide specific details of his pension arrangement.  Mr S said he had been waiting for eight 
years for this information  to be provided. He said that without a copy  of this he couldnt be 
sure that Avivas calculation of his TTFC was correct.
Mr S also said he did not receive  the letter Aviva had sent him in October 2015 asking for 
information about his salary  and service with his employer. He said he felt it was unfair that 
our investigator had accepted that Aviva  had sent this letter, but had not taken account of 
the phone  calls Mr S said he had made to Aviva in 2015.
Mr S said he felt Aviva could have told him that he was eligible for TTFC without  the salary 
and service information it needed  to calculate the actual  amount.
And he said our investigator  had not considered that Aviva  had only provided generic 
information to customers. Mr S said that if he had been aware of the TTFC  he was eligible 
for he would have cashed in my pension many  years previously.
He said he felt the service  he had received  from Aviva and the lack customer  specific  
information was very poor.
He also said that he did not feel that our investigator  had taken  account  of the stress, 
quality of life and debt my family and I suffered due to the lack of information supplied  to me 
regarding enhanced cash.
Our investigator addressed the points Mr S had made. She provided Mr S with a copy of the 
policy schedule and policy booklet  issued in 2011 by Aviva.  She explained that Aviva  did not 
have documentation  relating to the original scheme. And she explained that the calculation  
Aviva had made to work out the TTFC Mr S was entitled to was based on HMRC  rules,  not 
the scheme rules.
With regard to the phone calls Mr S said he had made in 2015,  she said she could only base  
her view on the evidence  available. As there  was no record of any telephone calls from Mr S 
to Aviva in 2015  she couldnt reasonably say that it had failed to respond to him.
Ref: DRN42243933She reiterated that Aviva was not able to calculate  whether Mr S was entitled to TTFC,  or 
what the percentage would be, until it had the information it needed about his salary and 
service. 
Mr S remained unhappy  with our investigators  view and asked for his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. He said:
You have  no evidence of my phone calls but neither do you have any evidence  of the 
correspondence sent to me from Aviva but you have accepted their submission that they did. 
The service  I have  received from Aviva  has been shoddy, slap dash and totally 
unprofessional. They  have lied and been totally  obtrusive. Aviva have caused me and my 
family great hardship  and I therefore  require the ombudsman to review my complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Ss position.  But having  carefully considered this matter  I dont  think  
Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
A minimum  of 25% of the value of the Mr Ss pension  pot at retirement  was available as a 
tax free lump sum. But as Mr Ss plan was a buy-out plan of an occupational pension, there 
was a TTFC  figure. This can be more  than 25% of the fund. But in order to calculate the 
amount of tax free cash Mr S was eligible for Aviva  needed the salary and benefits  
information it had requested.
As our investigator explained, the TTFC Mr S was entitled to was calculated  in line with 
HMRC rules.  In order to carry out this calculation Aviva needed to know  how long Mr S had 
worked for his employer  and his salary and benefits information. Without this information  it 
wasnt in a position to calculate whether  Mr S was entitled to a tax free lump  sum of more  
than 25% of his pension  pot. 
I appreciate that Mr S feels Aviva should have been  able to tell him what  the percentage of 
tax free cash he was eligible for. But this wasnt possible without knowing Mr Ss salary and 
service details. As this is the case I cant reasonably say that Aviva  acted  incorrectly  when it 
didnt give Mr S details of his TTFC entitlement in the retirement packs and statements it 
sent.
I do understand Mr Ss frustration at not receiving information tailored to his personal 
situation. But Aviva  wasnt able to provide this information prior to late 2018 when Mr S 
provided his salary and service details.
I have also carefully considered Mr Ss comments about the lack of any record  of his calls in 
2015. It is very unfortunate that there  is no record of these calls. But I note that Mr S also 
emailed Aviva in October 2015 to ask whether  he was eligible for TTFC. Mr S says he didnt 
receive the letter Aviva sent on 30 October 2015 in response to his email.  The letter 
explained that in order to work out Mr Ss entitlement Aviva needed his salary  and benefits 
information.
Ref: DRN42243934In Mr Ss submissions to this service  he has said he was in a difficult financial position. Mr S 
has said that if he had known he was eligible for TTFC he would have made many different 
decisions.  As this is the case it is not clear to me why Mr S did not follow  up the lack of a 
response to his email.  
It is also not clear to me why he didnt take advice on his pension  sooner than he did. I note 
that the retirement pack he requested  in early 2016 suggested that Mr S might want  to take 
advice on his pension  options. It said:
You now have more options on what you can do with your pension savings. We recommend 
you get guidance or advice to help you with this decision. Pension Wise is a new service 
from the government  which  offers free and impartial guidance. Weve included  a letter to you 
from the government  explaining what the service offers.
The pack  also included a salary  and service details form. The form explained:
Fill in this form if youre asking for a quote to withdraw all your pension money in one go or 
you're asking for an annuity quote including some tax-free cash.  By completing the details  
below we'll be able to work out if you could get a higher amount of tax-free cash.
(bold is my emphasis)
It is unfortunate that, for whatever reason, Mr S did not return this form at the time as Aviva 
would then have  been in a position to work out how much tax free cash Mr S was eligible for.
Having carefully considered this matter I can reasonably find that Aviva  gave Mr S incorrect 
information about whether he was eligible for TTFC.  Nor do I think  that it treated Mr S 
unfairly when it requested  information  about  his salary and service  history so it could work 
out his TTFC entitlement.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.  
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4224393