K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2008 
alongside a further advance. Mr and Mrs G say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs G say they were told they had to take out the PPI in order to get the further 
advance and they werent told the policy was optional. Ive thought  carefully about this and 
Ive also looked  at the other evidence available. Santander conducted  a full financial review 
of Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances when they met to take out the further advance. And from 
the documents from the review I can see that the sales person recommended  Mr and Mrs G 
to take out the PPI with an additional  bill payment cover.  But this document records  that 
Mr and Mrs G accepted  the PPI cover  but decided not to take the additional bill payment 
cover  so I think they wouldve known they had the option to say yes or no to the products 
they were recommended.  I dont know exactly what was said to Mr and Mrs G at the time. 
But as the policy was recommended I think its likely  Mr and Mrs G were told they should 
take out PPI, but thats different to saying they had to take it out. 
So overall I think Santander made  it clear that Mr and Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI 
and they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant remember this.
Mr and Mrs G also say they were forced  into taking  out the policy   this seems like an 
allegation of pressure. But they havent  told me what exactly happened  which  made them  
feel pressured. And without any evidence to support this allegation I cant  fairly  and 
reasonably uphold the complaint on this point. 
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs G so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and 
they seem  to have  had a need for the cover.   
Mr and Mrs G say they were entitled to sick pay and had some  savings at the time. But the 
PPI wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months  and would be in addition to their existing means. 
So these funds couldve been used for other  expenses. And as this borrowing  was attached 
to their home, I think  the PPI provided them  with some additional security  in the event one or 
both of them were  suddenly unable to work. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN40596812Ive also thought about whether Santander  needs to give Mr and Mrs G some of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules  and guidance  dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr and Mrs Gs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Santander 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4059681