K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) turned down the claim he made 
on his travel insurance policy.
background
Mr G took his bike on a short trip overseas, packed in a bike case. When he got home he 
realised the wheels and his bike helmet had been removed from the case after he checked  
them in for the return flight. So he made  a claim on his URV travel  insurance policy.
URV turned down  the claim, saying the policy  didnt cover loss or damage to bikes.  But, after 
Mr G appealed, URV agreed to cover the cost of the lost helmet. 
Mr G had paid a lot for his bike wheels and asked us to look into his complaint. But our 
investigator agreed with URV that the policy didnt cover the loss Mr G was claiming for. 
Mr G was still unhappy and asked for an ombudsman  to review his case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
My role is to decide if it was fair of URV  to turn down  Mr Gs claim for his lost bike wheels. 
And, having looked at the policy terms and conditions, I dont think URV acted unreasonably. 
The terms and conditions  explain that the policy provides cover if the policyholders 
possessions are lost or stolen. And the bike, including  its wheels,  was Mr Gs possession.  
But the policy goes  on to define more  specifically which possessions are covered and the 
maximum amounts URV will pay out for each type of possession.  This includes things like 
clothing & footwear, cosmetics & toiletries,  valuables and pieces of luggage. None of the 
related definitions mentions bikes or part of bikes. And I note the wheels cost £1,150, far in 
excess of the maximum claim amounts applicable to all but the clothing  & footwear section, 
which bikes clearly dont  fall into.
The policy doesnt  say specifically that bikes and their parts are not covered, but I dont think 
it gives the impression  either that they are covered.
URV says it covered  the cost of Mr Gs lost bike helmet as a gesture of goodwill.  I dont  think  
it would  be fair to tell URV to do the same with the bike wheels.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4694584