K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken 
out with personal  loans  in 2006 and 2010. Miss A says Number One Police  Credit  Union 
Limited, trading  as Number  One Copper Pot Credit Union (NOPCU) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Miss A has said the PPI was added without her consent. NOPCU  has said it would  have 
been up to Miss A to take the PPI or not. Where theres a dispute about what happened, I 
have to base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened, taking into 
account all the evidence that is available .
NOPCU has provided a copy of the application  completed at the time for the 2006 sale.  I can 
see there are three options on the application:
to take accident,  sickness and unemployment  cover;
to take accident  and sickness cover  only; or
to decline to take any PPI cover. 
I can see the option to take accident  and sickness cover only has been selected  and Miss A 
has signed the form. NOPCU  has also provided a copy of the loan agreement from the 2006 
sale. I can see there is another  opportunity  to select or decline PPI and again PPI has been 
selected with accident and sickness cover  specifically.  Miss A has signed the form. By 
signing the documents, I think  its more likely  that Miss A wanted the cover and agreed to 
take it out, knowing she didnt have to. 
The 2010  sale was conducted online. NOPCU has provided a copy of the loan application   
which is a reflection of the information  that was inputted online. I can see PPI has been 
chosen  specifically with accident and sickness cover only.  A copy of the loan agreement  
has also been provided. I can see there is another opportunity to select or decline PPI and 
again PPI has been selected  with specifically accident and sickness cover.  Miss A has 
signed the form. By signing the agreement I think its more likely that Miss A wanted the 
cover and agreed to take it out, knowing she didnt  have  to.
So having  everything in to consideration for both sales,  I think NOPCU made it clear that 
Miss A didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember this now many  years later.
NOPCU didnt recommend the PPI to Miss A so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Miss A got the information she needed to decide  if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information NOPCU gave Miss A about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
Ref: DRN43708572cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Miss A has said she would have received six months full followed  by six months half sick 
pay from her employer  if she was too ill to work.  But the PPI policy  couldve covered Miss 
As repayments for up to 24 months  per claim if she became too ill to work. It wouldve paid 
out in addition to any sick pay or savings she had and for longer  than her sick pay lasted. So 
I still think the PPI could have been  useful for her. 
Ive thought about everything Miss A has said but these points dont change my decision. 
Ive also thought about the commission Miss A paid on her policy   and whether NOPCU 
treated her unfairly. 
NOPCU has told us that the commission for Miss As policy  was less than half of what  she 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how NOPCU has been working this out and based 
on what weve seen it looks like its right  Miss As commission  was less than half the cost 
of the policy. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell her about the commission  so I 
dont think NOPCU treated her unfairly.  This means  it doesnt need to pay Miss A back any 
of the commission  she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4370857