K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Eldon Insurance Services  Ltd (trading as Go Skippy)  wouldnt honour a 
motor insurance quote it gave him online. Mr Cs relative has helped him with his complaint,  
so references  to Mr C will include what theyve said.
background
Mr C had a motor insurance policy through Go Skippy, and he called them  for a quote to 
change the car on cover  to another one he was buying. He was told to go online to change 
the car on his portal.
When doing this Mr C noticed the car had come  up as having automatic transmission, rather  
than being manual. He also noticed  it didnt have  the full model name. But Mr C didnt think 
this was a huge issue because the details had all come up automatically on the system and 
hed used the correct registration. Mr C says he paid a deposit for the car because  he felt the 
insurance quote would be honoured.
During subsequent conversations  Go Skippy  discovered the car was imported, and said it 
couldnt change  the policy to cover  an imported car. Mr C didnt think that was fair because 
hed managed to obtain  a quote online  by using the registration. Hed also seen that
Go Skippys website said We only provide cover  for vehicles officially  imported into the UK 
that are coded by the Association  of British Insurers.
Go Skippy looked  into the matter for Mr C but maintained that his insurer couldnt provide 
him with cover due to the car being  imported.  It did, however, say the portal couldve been 
clearer about this and offered him £30 compensation for inconvenience  caused.
Mr C says he shouldve been told in the first instance that the car couldnt be covered and 
that hes suffered  inconvenience as a result. He says he had to wait around six months 
before he could find an affordable policy for the imported car  although he did have another 
car on cover for most of the time in between. And he was able to rely on a family member for 
some lifts too.
An investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint  and agreed hed been  treated unfairly.  He 
recommended Go Skippy increase the compensation to £150. Neither Mr C nor Go Skippy 
agreed to this so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the first thing for me to cover is Go Skippys role in the matter.  Go Skippy isnt the 
insurer in this situation, rather its an insurance intermediary that arranges  cover for 
customers. This means Go Skippy  cant actually provide an insurance policy  itself,  it was 
reliant on the insurer to do that after it had given Mr C a quote  online. And I see the insurer  
confirmed to Mr C that it couldnt provide him with a policy  for the car in question.
I appreciate Mr C has seen on Go Skippys website that it can arrange  cover for imported 
cars, and I can understand why thats  caused confusion. But I believe the issue  here is the 
mistake in first giving Mr C a quote  for cover   because thats what Mr C relied upon when 
Ref: DRN42556102he put down the deposit for the car. And whatever Go Skippy has on its website, its still 
down to the insurer as to whether cover  will be granted.
When something has gone wrong, as is the case here, one of the aims of our service  is to 
help put people in the position theyd have  been  in if the error hadnt occurred.
In this case Mr C feels  hes lost out as a result of the misquote from Go Skippy   because he 
had to wait around  six months to find affordable cover elsewhere.  But the error here was 
giving Mr C the quote in the first place, that means if the error  hadnt happened Mr C 
wouldve had to shop  around elsewhere  anyway. So I dont think  hes lost out here 
financially, in terms of the cost of insuring the imported car, even though  I can understand 
how it could feel that way.
I appreciate Mr C wouldve liked Go Skippy to honour the quote, or at least  cover  the 
difference in cost between it and the cover he found  elsewhere. I cant  ask Go Skippy  to 
honour the quote because  it isnt the insurer,  and the insurer  said it cant cover  the car in 
question.
And I dont  think it would be fair to ask Go Skippy  to pay the difference  between the cost of 
the two policies, because while a quote  was given the policy  was never really  available.
I note the point Mr C has made  about  the validity date, and his view that the contract  should  
be honoured. But as Ive explained, Go Skippy  isnt the insurer  so couldnt have honoured it 
without agreement from them. As the insurer  didnt  agree to offer cover there was nothing 
more Go Skippy could  do in respect of the quote  it had given to Mr C. It could only look at 
what it felt was fair compensation, and it felt £30 was fair in the circumstances.
The issue  I think Go Skippy  did contribute to though was Mr C having to wait around six 
months to insure the imported car. He says he was able to do so after that period as hed 
earned one year no claim discount, so insurance was more  affordable  at that point. I have 
taken into account  Go Skippys  point that Mr C wouldve been wise to double check the 
quote was valid before he paid the deposit   particularly as hed noticed some  discrepancies 
on it. But I dont think it was wholly unreasonable for him to have  expected minor changes  to 
be possible, rather than cover not being  available from the insurer at all.
It seems  to me that Mr C had already committed to buying the car, as hed paid a deposit for 
it. Its possible he mightve been  able to pull out of the purchase as he was aware  there was 
a problem before it had been completed, but it was an informal  sale and he says he was 
concerned he may have  difficulties getting  the deposit back. He also felt obliged  to complete 
the purchase as the seller had a need for the money.
Overall, I agree  with the investigator  that £30 compensation  wasnt  enough and I note that 
Mr C says he didnt cash the now expired  cheque. Go Skippy caused unnecessary 
inconvenience and confusion and if it hadnt given  the incorrect  quote in the first place all of 
that couldve been avoided. Its possible Mr C wouldnt have gone ahead  and put the deposit 
on the car if he hadnt received a quote he was happy with, so I think Go Skippy  should  pay 
Mr C a further £120 compensation for the problems caused.
During the course of this matter,  Mr C has also mentioned that Go Skippy  arranged  for 
another company to contact him, as they might be able to arrange cover  for his car. It turned  
out they couldnt cover Mr C either  so I can understand why he found that to be unhelpful. 
Ref: DRN42556103But I think this was a genuine attempt from Go Skippy to try and help and I understand it was 
only one call so dont  think  its something  that warrants further compensation.
I appreciate Mr C may still feel the compensation amount isnt enough and Ive considered 
his comments about the amount of time invested in trying to resolve the matter.  But I dont 
think he was ever going to get the outcome he wanted  for the quote to be honoured  and 
I think its possible he couldve done  a little more to check the quote was valid, before putting  
the deposit on the car.
I note that in one of the calls he had with Go Skippy he expressed  that he knew the 
transmission needed to be corrected  although  as Ive explained I dont think  it was 
unreasonable of him to think a minor change like that would be acceptable.
Having considered everything  very carefully  I believe  Go Skippys mistake did cause  Mr C 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience and I think £150 is fair in all the circumstances.
my final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Eldon Insurance  Services  Ltd 
(trading as Go Skippy)  to pay Mr C a total of £150  compensation in settlement of this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019. 
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4255610