K821x#15complaint
Mr T says PDL Finance  Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 4 instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Mr T between September 
2015 and August 2016. Details of the 4 loans are as follows:
Loan Date started Date repaid Instalments Amount Highest repayment
1 24/09/2015 17/10/2015 6 500 191.33
2 13/12/2015 09/01/2016 6 500 231.33
3 21/02/2016 19/08/2016 6 750 293.00
4 23/08/2016 19/04/2017 12 1400 293.06
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ts complaint in part and thought loan 4 shouldnt  have been 
given. Mr Lender didnt  agree.  So the complaint was passed  to me, an ombudsman, to make 
a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN42015912I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator that there was nothing to indicate  Mr Lender needed to do more  
when it approved loan 1 and 2. This was early on in the lending relationship between the two 
parties. The repayments for the 2 loans  also would have seemed affordable based on what 
Mr T had told Mr Lender. So I dont think at this stage, Mr Lender was wrong  to give these 
loans to Mr T.  
I do think though,  by the time Mr T asked  for loan 3, that Mr Lender should  have  realised that 
it couldnt safely rely on the information  he was providing about his finances.  I think  it should 
have taken steps at that time to independently verify Mr Ts true financial position. We asked 
Mr T for copies of his bank statements so we could see what  better checks would have 
shown Mr Lender. He hasnt been  able to provide these to us. So Im not able to say that 
better checks would  have shown Mr T that it shouldnt have given loan 3 to Mr T.
However as our adjudicator explained, by loan four the pattern of Mr Ts borrowing showed  
that he was showing  signs that he was struggling to repay his borrowing:  
Loan four was for £1,400. This amount  was almost three times as much  as the first loan 
Mr T took out with Mr Lender. The amounts he was asking to borrow had steadily  
increased over 11 months between  loan 1 and when Mr T asked for loan 4.
When he requested loan 4 Mr T asked  for this loan to be over a longer time than his 
previous loans, taking  it out over 12 months rather than 6 increasing the time that he 
would be making repayments to Mr Lender.
Mr T was borrowing  again shortly after he repaid a loan. He asked for loan 4, only 4 days  
after he had repaid loan 3. This shows me that at this point, he was most  likely unable to 
repay his previous  loan without taking out a new one and was borrowing again to fill a 
gap in his finances.  
I think when I consider all of these points together, it shows that there was a significant risk 
that Mr T would be unable to meet his repayments  for loan four because  he was showing  
signs that he was struggling to repay  in a sustainable way. So I think  Mr Lender was wrong  
to approve loan four. 
Ref: DRN42015913It follows that I dont think Mr Lender  should  have given  loan 4. So at this point, Mr Lender 
should put things right. 
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr T paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 4 from Mr Ts credit file
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest.  Mr Lender must  give 
Mr T a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ts complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
(trading as Mr Lender) should pay Mr T compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020. 
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4201591