K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  in 2005 at the same time as taking out a joint mortgage.  
They applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for only Mrs S for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £334.59 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ss 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £19.88 a month for 
the accident, sickness and unemployment cover but the first three  months were  free. 
At the time,  Mrs S was employed as a Kitchen  Assistant.  She has told us she was entitled to 
up to 12 months sick pay, redundancy pay and death in service from her employer. Mr S had 
only just started a new job so wasnt eligible for the cover,  so Mrs S took the 100% of the 
cover offered. Mr and Mrs S have told us they had no savings Mrs S has said had some  
medical conditions  prior to the time of the sale.
As only Mrs S was covered by the policy, I have mainly taken into account her 
circumstances and eligibility for the policy at the time of the sale.  
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in June 2005. 
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ss representative  says:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Ss representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Mr and Mrs S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs S and the 
impact they would have had on Mrs Ss chances  of making a claim;
Ref: DRN45674112The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. They have also fairly recently reaffirmed they had medical  
conditions that would  have excluded them from claiming on the policy  and have concerns 
about not being told about the levels of commission which they say would have affected their 
decision to take out the policy.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. This therefore excludes consideration of Mr and Mrs Ss issues  about not being 
told the levels of commission  involved before  buying the policy  and being entitled  to any 
refund of the commission.
This sale took place  in June 2005 after the sale of general insurance products  like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005.  So the FSAs 
and the FCAs  overarching principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB) are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Ref: DRN45674113Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BOS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so BOS was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN45674114If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Mrs S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
Whether BOS gave Mrs S sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs S, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs S 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs S 
and BOS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mrs S know  she had a choice?
BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
The application form for the mortgage  and PPI is not available.  But the sample template 
indicates that active selection of the PPI had to be made to apply for the policy.  In this case 
some discussion  must  have taken place  as Mr and Mrs S took out the policy only to cover 
Mrs S, as Mr S was not eligible as he has only just started new employment. 
A mortgage offer was sent out to Mr and Mrs S dated 25 May 2005  and this contained the 
cost of the PPI described as Optional Insurance. 
Also after the application  for PPI was submitted an illustration and quotation  for the PPI was 
sent to Mrs S dated 26 May 2005. This included  detail  of the information collected from 
Mrs S when the application was made,  including  information about medical conditions etc 
and also set out the costs and benefits of the policy. It contained the full demands and needs  
statement completed at the point of application  and in a table set out the selected cover.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mrs S knew the policy  was optional 
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did BOS provide  advice?
Both BOS and Mrs S agree that advice was provided during this sale. 
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that BOS took some  steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable recommendation 
for Mrs S. The adviser had information  about  some of Mr and Mrs Ss financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and needs 
statement was completed to try and establish whether Mrs S had a need for the policy  by 
asking questions about her wider  circumstances such as any health issues  and existing 
means  I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. I say this because I dont 
Ref: DRN45674115know if the advisor considered both short and long term protection  needs and although 
information was asked about specific medical conditions, its unclear  if any other medical  
conditions were discussed and if it was indicated  they were  or were not caught by the policy 
exclusions. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BOS  did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs S given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BOS  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mrs S, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
Mrs S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Mrs S had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ss ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
Mrs S was not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the sick 
pay and redundancy benefits  she says she would have been entitled to.
The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs S. 
The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs S. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Ss employment or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mrs S has told us about 
an operation to reattach a tendon she had around 1966 when she was about 13. But 
there is nothing to indicate  she had any further  problems after the operation  relating 
to this. She has also mention treatment she had for Carpel Tunnel Syndrome in 1981  
and 1989, but after this second date there is nothing to show  any ongoing problems 
occurred in the 15 years before the policy was taken out. If she was symptom free 
and had not consulted a doctor  in the 24 months  before a claim for the condition, 
then it would not have been  excluded.  So there  seems to be nothing in Mrs Ss pre-
existing medical conditions that would  have been caught by the restrictions  of the 
policy.
While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr and 
Mrs Ss circumstances and the fact the policy protected  the mortgage repayments  
relating to their home and the potential consequences should Mr and Mrs S be 
unable to make the repayments on loans secured against  their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BOS gave Mrs S sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BOS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied that Mrs S was given a broad description of what  the policy  was intended  to 
cover (that is that the policy would protect  his payments if she was unable to work through 
accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs. The benefit and costs 
Ref: DRN45674116are clearly  recorded in the Quotation given to Mrs S as a record of what was discussed  at 
the meeting.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BOS gave sufficient 
information about all the exclusions or limitations  before  Mrs S agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs S Im not persuaded BOS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded BOS  gave Mrs S all of the information she needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ss representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Ss. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ss representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs S about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs S have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BOS ought to have done either. 
what effect did BOSs shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent  did Mr and 
Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mrs S. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and Mrs S 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs S 
would have still taken  out the policy, had BOS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BOS took the steps it should  have done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs S, I have  found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
Ref: DRN45674117In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs S have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BOS had explained things properly, 
Mrs S would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs S says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs S had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BOS  advised her that there was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  the joint mortgage payments in the event she 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ss circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs S was given about the cost and benefit  
was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs S thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mrs S 
new about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs S 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs S be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs S pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
Ref: DRN45674118cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs S was eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to Mr 
and Mrs S should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mrs S says she had 
medical conditions  prior to taking out the PPI, as I have  already indicated above, the policy 
didnt exclude  cover for these prior medical  conditions. And I havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest she wouldve  been caught  by any of the significant exclusions. So I still think  she 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs S might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs S 
from taking out the policy  Mrs S, in her circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it 
out.
If Mrs S had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any similar job which in the insurers view she might reasonably been qualified for, it 
might have played into her thinking  about what she would have done. And I accept  it may 
have given her pause  for thought  although  its possible she may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mrs S was unable (through disability) to carry on her own occupation  
the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
BOS may not have  told Mr and Mrs S that any claim she made  would be limited to a 12-
month. This may have differed from what she expected and might have hoped for  but Mr 
and Mrs S at the time of sale had limited other  means  to fall back  on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs S would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mrs S be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk 
and might potentially  help preserve Mr Ss income and Mrs Ss sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs S would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help Mr and Mrs S manage  the consequences if Mrs S was made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs S would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations 
on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN45674119That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs S would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs S found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that Mrs S would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that Mrs S would not have taken out the policy, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Mr and Mrs S compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs S think BOS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BOSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why BOS  failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOS gave Mrs S, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
June 2005 when providing  information  about an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ss representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find BOS negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs S and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that BOS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN456741110my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2021.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4567411