K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about delay by Mapfre Asistencia,  Compania Internacional De Seguros  y 
Reaseguros, S.A. in dealing  with his travel insurance claim.
background
Mr S had an annual travel  insurance policy with Mapfre. In October 2017 he unfortunately 
suffered a sudden, serious illness abroad. He had surgery and was able to return to the UK.
Mr S received a number  of invoices from the emergency and medical services involved in his 
care. Mapfre  told him to send the invoices  to it and not to communicate with the various 
companies, including their debt collectors.  He followed Mapfres instructions.
But Mr S has explained  both to Mapfre and to ourselves how distressed he was to receive  
these invoices and debt collection letters at a time he was recovering from a serious illness.  
He thought he was being harassed despite  having full travel  insurance. He asked for the bills 
to be paid, compensation and an apology.
Mapfre explained that its agent  was in contact with the individual  services  that had billed for 
their time and services,  and was negotiating the costs. He said that while  some  of the 
services withheld reminders and debt collection letters  while its agent was negotiating the 
costs, it couldnt control this. It said Mr S should  continue  to send the letters  to it. Mr S 
remained very concerned  and came to us. 
Our adjudicator asked  Mapfre for evidence that it was actively negotiating  the various 
invoices that Mr S had received, and it provided  this to him. Our adjudicator  didnt uphold  the 
complaint. He said that Mapfre was entitled to negotiate the costs and it had properly asked 
Mr S to send any invoices to it. Ultimately  it couldnt  control whether the various companies 
would continue to send invoices. Mr S wasnt satisfied with this and so the complaints come  
to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been sorry  to learn of Mr Ss serious  illness, and the distress and inconvenience hes 
suffered when receiving  demands for payment  from the various services involved in his care 
abroad. I need  to decide whether Mapfre is responsible for this. 
Ive carefully thought  about all the evidence, and having done  so I dont uphold the complaint 
I appreciate Mr S has paid for comprehensive travel  insurance. Mapfre has accepted his 
claim. But it was entitled  to negotiate  the costs being charged by the services  who were 
involved with Mr S's care. I note his comments about the policy,  but negotiation of costs  is 
usual practice for insurance companies, particularly where the costs are substantial  as here.
Mapfre has correctly told Mr S to pass all the invoices to it, and in turn it has passed them to 
its international specialist agent which is negotiating  the costs on its behalf.  It has explained 
that where the agent is negotiating the companies  requesting payment will often not send 
reminders or demands for payments. The costs being charged are reduced and Ive seen  
Ref: DRN41771392evidence that the majority of the invoices had been paid by November 2018,  with the 
remaining ones to be paid shortly afterwards following final negotiations. 
Unfortunately Mr S received some demands for payment in the twelve months after his 
illness, and I dont  underestimate the distress  this caused him. Hes described the letters as 
harassment. But despite my natural sympathy  for his position I dont think  this was Mapfres 
responsibility where it had contacted and was negotiating with the individual companies  
concerned. Mapfre didnt issue the demands  for payment. Mapfre had explained to Mr S 
what it was doing  and that Mr S should forward all and any demands to it. I think it has 
responded fairly to Mr Ss complaint. As our adjudicator said theres no evidence  that the 
issue around the payment demands will affect  Mr Ss ability to travel to the country where he 
suffered the sudden  illness.  
Given my findings I dont think I can fairly require Mapfre to pay Mr S compensation or 
apologise to him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4177139