K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs R originally took out a mortgage in 2008 but didnt buy PPI at that time.  They  
bought the policy in 2010 at the same time as taking out further borrowing on the mortgage. 
Due to the time that has passed,  its not clear how Mr and Mrs R applied for the further 
advance and PPI policy, although Mr and Mrs R have a recollection  of it being during a 
meeting in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for both Mr and Mrs R for accident, sickness,  unemployment and 
life  subject to its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay £1,400  a month  towards Mr 
and Mrs Rs mortgage balance in the event  of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £71.68 
a month. 
Mr and Mrs R thought  they had bought the PPI in 2007 and so they have given us details of 
their circumstances at that time. Although we asked them about their circumstances in 2010, 
we did not receive  a response. However, information that Mr and Mrs R gave to Nat West 
shows that in 2010,  Mr R had been  employed as a lorry driver for a number of years and that 
Mrs R was also in full time, permanent employment. We also have information that Mr and 
Mrs R were both entitled to at least six months full sick pay and that Mrs R would have 
received redundancy pay. Mr R has said he had a medical condition at the time of the sale. 
Mr and Mrs R have also said that they had no other means, such as savings, of making their 
mortgage repayments.
Nat West has sent us information to show that the mortgage account started in 2008 and 
closed in 2017. 
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Rs representative says:
Nat West failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs R 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Rs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nat West should  
have told Mr and Mrs R about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN42327712The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nat West should  have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs R 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs R received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Rs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2010 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Ref: DRN42327713Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nat West, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Nat West was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN42327714-If Nat West  gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs R with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nat West gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs R, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs R 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs R 
and Nat West, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs R know they had a choice?
Nat West had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
The mortgage offer states: You are not required to take any other financial product from us 
as a requirement of this offer of loan, Also, under the heading Insurance it states: 
Insurance you must take out through Nat West Home Loans Ltd  None.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs R knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nat West provide advice?
Nat West says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs R havent commented on 
whether or not they think the sale was advised. Looking  at what  happened  when Nat West 
sold Mr and Mrs R the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. The PPI direct debit 
mandate form states that customers should  ensure  they have read and understood the 
terms and conditions of the policy in the booklet  Insuring  You and Your  Home.  From what 
we know of Nat Wests sales process at the time, PPI was sold on a non-advised basis  and I 
havent seen anything to lead me to conclude that something different happened in this 
case.
This means  Nat West didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs R. Instead, 
it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mr and Mrs R to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs R were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr 
and Mrs R were  unable  to work  through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the 
Ref: DRN42327715costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs R would have  
taken out the policy  without any sense  of what the policy  was for. And Ive seen a copy  of the 
direct debit mandate for the PPI that details the benefit as £1,400 for a monthly premium of 
£71.68.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nat West gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs R agreed  to take out the 
policy. 
So I dont  think Nat West gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Rs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Rs. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Rs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs R about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Rs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs R have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Nat West ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Nat Wests shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs R? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs R suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Nat West didnt do all it should have  done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs R. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and Mrs 
R suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs R would have still taken out the policy, had Nat West  done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs R say they would not have taken  it out and believe that I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN42327716As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs R had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr and/or Mrs R being unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs R chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs R thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs R have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
The information Mr and Mrs R were given  about  the cost was clear. But the information 
about other aspects  of the policy, such as limitations and exclusions wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs R thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs M werent  permanent employees.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs R be 
unable to do their own job or a similar occupation that they might  be able to perform  
or may reasonably become qualified to perform  based on their education, training or 
ability.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mr and Mrs R pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy was not as good as they thought and they might  have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs R from 
taking out the policy.  
The evidence about Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. They  were  eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, could have proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. Although Mr R says he had a medical 
condition when the PPI was taken  out, the policy didnt  exclude cover for existing medical 
conditions. And I havent seen any evidence  to suggest Mr and Mrs R would have been 
caught by any of the significant exclusions. So I still think  they had some  good reasons to 
take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs R would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
Mr and Mrs R were 60 and 61 years  old respectively  at the time they bought the policy.  
However, the policy provided cover until the age of 65 and so Mr and Mrs R were able to 
Ref: DRN42327717potentially benefit  from the policy for 4-5 years. Nat West  has provided evidence  from the 
insurer that Mrs R was removed from the policy when she reached 65 and that the policy  
was cancelled in 2014 when Mr R reached 65.
If Mr and Mrs R had known they could only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their job or any similar occupation which in the insurers view they might  reasonably  
become qualified to perform,  it might  have played into their thinking about what  they would  
have done. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought   although  its possible 
they may not have been overly concerned  given that if Mr and Mrs R were  unable (through  
disability) to carry on their own occupations the chances that they would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Nat West may not have  told Mr and Mrs R that any claim they made  would be limited to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for 
 but 12 months  was a longer period than Mr and Mrs R would have received full sick pay for 
and their statutory  redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months 
income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs R would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs R be unable to work  in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr and Mrs Rs sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs R would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr and Mrs R were  made redundant, or unable to work  through 
the accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more  likely than not that Mr and 
Mrs R would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Rs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs R wouldnt have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Rs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position Mr 
Ref: DRN42327718and Mrs R found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs R believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. Im not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs R in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken out 
the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Nat West should pay Mr and Mrs R compensation, as that would put them  in a 
better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs R think Nat West misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Nat Wests statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason why Nat 
West failed to act fairly and reasonably  was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Nat West gave Mr and Mrs R, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2010 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Rs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Nat West negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs R and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Nat West  had been  in breach of its duty 
of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs R in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 December 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4232771