K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that they were mis-sold a regular premium  payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy  by Nationwide Building  Society.
background
Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage in 1997 and they purchase a PPI policy that started  in 
January 1998.  The policy covered Mr G only, and only provided cover  in the event that he 
wasnt working because  of unemployment. It didnt  provide accident and sickness cover. In 
the event of a successful  claim, it wouldve paid a monthly benefit  of £700 for up to 24 
months at a monthly  cost of around £35.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs G 
disagree, so their case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  when deciding Mr and 
Mrs Gs case.  Having  done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G say the policy was taken out in 1996  and theyve complained about the way in 
which Nationwide has dealt with their complaint. However, Mr and Mrs G bought two 
properties and took out a mortgage  on each.  They also purchased  two PPI policies  one in 
conjunction with each mortgage.  In this particular complaint, I am only considering  the sale 
of the PPI policy which they took out with their second property purchase and second 
mortgage  mortgage account ending *9975. And these  events  took place in 1997.  The sale 
of the first policy in association with their first mortgage is the subject of a separate 
complaint.
The mortgage and the PPI were  taken out many years ago  the policy was taken out in 
December 1997  and it started  in January 1998   so unsurprisingly  neither party  has been 
able to provide  much  information about the sale and how it took place.  And in these  
situations, I have  to look at what I think is more likely to have happened. 
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs G have given their honest recollections  of the sale but I have to 
accept that over time memories can and do fade. And I just dont have any evidence 
whatsoever to suggest that the policy wasnt optional  that Mr and Mrs G didnt have a 
choice in taking  it out. So with the very limited information I have I cant  fairly say that Mr and 
Mrs G werent  aware of the PPI or that they didnt have a choice about taking it.
Mr and Mrs G say they were pressured by Nationwide  to take out the policy  they say they 
were warned  about the forthcoming  general election in 1997; the change in government  
would lead to significant economic problems and repercussions and they were  frightened  
into taking it out. However  I think Mr and Mrs G are mistaken in this regard  I say this 
because by the time they bought this policy in December 1997,  the election  to which  they 
refer had already  taken  place  and I havent  seen any other evidence of them being 
pressured into purchasing this policy 
Ref: DRN47584692Nationwide didnt advise  Mr and Mrs G to buy the policy   all of its PPI sales  during the 
period were  on a non-advised  basis. So I think its most likely that Nationwide didnt 
recommend the policy. This means Nationwide just had to make  sure Mr and Mrs G had 
enough information about the PPI. 
I dont know what information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs G or how it was presented,  so its 
possible they didnt  get everything  they needed. But Ive looked at Mr Gs circumstances at 
the time to establish whether any possible information failings mightve made a difference  to 
their decision  to take the PPI, but I dont  think it would.
I think Mr and Mrs G wouldve been able to benefit  from the full range of cover they paid for. 
Mr G told us he was employed  so he wouldnt have been excluded by any terms relating to 
unusual employment  circumstances.  
Mr G says he wouldve received good levels of sick pay from his employer if he wasnt 
working  but this policy didnt provide accident and sickness cover, so it wouldve been  a 
sensible addition to the occupational benefits he already had. So I think the policy offered a 
useful benefit  to them. And if hed become unemployed, the policy wouldve allowed them to 
use any savings they may have  had for other pressing matters; at what would likely have 
been a stressful  time.
Mr and Mrs G say that they werent  able to claim on the policy when Mr G lost his job  so 
the policy was useless. But the policy document Ive seen says that Mr G couldnt claim 
during the period covered by a payment  in lieu of notice; the policy  states for any time that 
youre paid instead of working notice, youll be treated as employed.  If, however, Mr G was 
unemployed after this period ended, he could consider approaching Nationwide to see if itll 
accept a retrospective claim.
The cost of the policy was reasonable for the cover  it provided and it was a regular premium 
one  so if they decided  it was no longer affordable  or that they no longer  needed  it  they 
couldve cancelled it without penalty  at any point.
So I dont  think that if Mr and Mrs G didnt  get all the information  they needed (and I dont 
know with any certainty  that they didnt)  that this wouldve  made a difference  to their decision 
to buy the policy.  I cant  fairly  say on the information  provided that Nationwide  mis-sold the 
policy to Mr and Mrs G.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint so it follows that Nationwide Building Society 
dont have to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4758469