K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that MYJAR Limited was irresponsible to lend him money that he couldnt 
afford to repay.
Mr M wants MYJAR to refund the interest and charges that he paid as well as removing any 
negative information  about the loans from his credit file.
background
Mr M took out two instalment loans with MYJAR as follows:
Loan one in February 2017 for £925 to be repaid by 12 monthly  instalments  of 
around £138
Loan two in February 2018 for £800  to be repaid by 12 monthly instalments the 
highest of which  was £273;
 
Mr M says he had a number of outgoings  that meant he couldnt afford to repay the loans. 
Mr M says that his credit file wouldve shown he was in financial difficulty  during this time.
Before agreeing to lend each time MYJAR recorded  a net monthly income of £1,800. It says 
that Mr M declared monthly outgoings of £350  before loan one and £700  before loan two. 
MYJAR also carried out credit checks but I havent seen the results.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint  be upheld. He thought  MYJARs  
checks before loans one and two went far enough. And that based on the information 
MYJAR had, it was reasonable to agree to lend.
Mr M disagrees with the adjudicators recommendation.   Mr M said that he would  give us a 
copy of his credit report together with emails that he sent asking MYJAR to suspend 
repayments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions of the adjudicator. Although Mr M said that he was going  to send us further 
information, I havent received this.
MYJAR was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make  checks to see whether Mr M 
could afford  to pay back each loan before it lent to him. These checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr M was borrowing, the length of the agreement 
and what he told it about himself. But there wasnt  a set list of checks MYJAR  had to do.
MYJAR has given us evidence that it asked Mr M to estimate  how much he was spending 
each month  on housing, credit and other expenses. And it checked  Mr Ms credit file. 
MYJAR also adjusted Mr Ms outgoings  by deducting credit  commitments and an assumed 
allowance for other expenditure.
Ref: DRN43952282It was early on in Mr Ms lending history and the maximum repayment  on both loans 
represented a fairly  modest proportion of his declared monthly income. So I think that 
MYJAR carried  out proportionate  checks.
I cant find that MYJAR was wrong to agree loans one and two based  on the information that 
it held about Mr M.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
 
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4395228