K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited hasnt allowed him to add a 
beneficiary to his Whole of Life policy, and has also failed to respond to his letters or 
communicate with him appropriately. 
background 
Mr N wrote to Aviva  in November 2018 specifying  the individual  he wanted to receive  the 
proceeds of his whole  of life policy once it paid out. As he hadnt  received a reply, he wrote 
again in December and then in January  2019  asking for confirmation  that his instruction 
had been received and actioned. 
Aviva replied in December 2018.  It set out the ways in which Mr N could ensure that any 
policy monies were paid to a specific named  person. The first way was to make  a Will which  
specified that the proceeds of this particular policy needed to be paid to a specific  individual.  
The second  way was to write the policy in trust, thereby specifying where the monies  should  
be paid to. The letter warned Mr N that doing  so would essentially mean giving the policy 
away. It also explained that there may be implications for the qualifying nature of the policy 
for tax purposes, and so it encouraged  Mr N to speak to his financial adviser. 
Aviva replied to Mr Ns December 2018  chasers in January 2019. It confirmed that it had 
responded to his query in December. And it confirmed that if Mr N wished to ensure that any 
policy monies are paid to a specific named  person, [he] could  do this by inclusion of an 
appropriate clause  in [his] will or by writing  the policy in trust. It said that it didnt recognise 
an expression of wish for this type of contract. 
Mr N sent a further letter in February 2019  in which  he asked Aviva to confirm  that the two 
options he had been told to follow in order to name  a beneficiary were the only ones 
available to him. Aviva didnt respond  to this letter, so Mr N complained.  
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Ns complaint. He acknowledged that there appeared 
to be a delay in letters being  received by Mr N to his address abroad.  And he also 
acknowledged that Aviva  had accepted no responses were provided to Mr Ns most recent 
letters in January and February  2019. So the adjudicator considered  it would be fair and 
reasonable for Aviva to pay Mr N £150  for the inconvenience it caused  him. 
Mr N didnt agree with the adjudicator.  He said that the situation hadnt changed since  
February. He said the payment was meaningless and the situation hadnt  been resolved. 
And he said that Avivas  competence in sending  and answering legitimate serious queries is 
in question. Mr N, who had already had a final decision on a separate  complaint about 
Aviva, therefore asked  that this current complaint be examined by the ombudsman  both in 
its own right,  and in conjunction with [his] previous complaint. As agreement  couldnt be 
reached, the case was passed  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr N feels  very strongly about his complaint,  and the service he has received  
from Aviva  has clearly  not been in line with his expectations. I can also understand the 
frustration at receiving letters much later than hes used  to  I believe Mr N when he says 
Ref: DRN40425152that, despite living abroad, he doesnt usually receive letters three to four weeks after they 
have been sent.  
However, I think its important for me to point  out that my role isnt to punish Aviva, or to fine 
it for areas of its service which have let Mr N down. My role is to look at Mr Ns complaint 
impartially, and if something  has gone  wrong, award compensation which  I consider to be 
fair and reasonable. 
In this case, I can see that Mr N did write a number of times asking for a named person to be 
named beneficiary  on his policy.  There was some crossover with the letters  he was sending 
and Avivas replies, as a result of the delay in Avivas letters  being  received by Mr N. But 
generally, I consider  Avivas letter of December 2018 to have been very clear  about Mr Ns 
options. I think it explained that there were only two ways  in which  he could name someone 
as a beneficiary on his policy:  he either needed  to do so in a will, or he needed to write the 
policy in trust. The letter  went  on to explain the detail of these  options  and encouraged him 
to speak to an adviser  particularly if he was considering writing the policy  in trust. 
Mr N then sent a chaser in January  (before  he had received the December letter), and then 
a response to the December 2018 letter in February  2019. By this point, I think  its clear 
Mr N was unhappy at the constant delays in receiving post from Aviva  but Im not 
persuaded this had anything to do with Aviva  itself. Unfortunately, Im not able to provide him 
with an explanation as to why Avivas post is delayed.  
I would expect it to be good practice  for a firm such as Aviva to respond  to correspondence it 
receives from its customers. So in this case,  I do agree with the adjudicator that it was poor 
practice for Aviva not to have responded to Mr Ns February letter.  However, Im not sure 
theres much more it could have  added.  It had already explained to him twice  that he only 
had two options  and that an expression  of wish  was not sufficient to change  the 
beneficiary on the policy. So Mr N was, essentially, asking for a third time, a question  which  
Aviva deemed it had already unequivocally answered twice. 
As Ive said,  I think it wouldve been good practice for Aviva to respond to a customer,  
particularly one who had been with them for some time. And so for the inconvenience and 
distress that caused Mr N, I agree with the adjudicator that a payment of £150  is fair and 
reasonable. 
In relation to the other matters Mr N has asked me to take into account,  Im afraid Im unable 
to do that. His previous  complaint has already been  decided by another  ombudsman, and 
Im not therefore able to look at this complaint in light of his previous one. And, as Ive said 
above, my role isnt to punish Aviva   so Im not able to consider Avivas  behaviour  in 
general unless  its about this specific complaint. 
So while I appreciate Mr Ns strength of feeling on this complaint, Im satisfied that Aviva  has 
explained the process to him and provided him the options he needs to choose  from if he 
wants to name someone as beneficiary  under his policy. 
And, for the delays in responding to Mr N (and for its failure  to respond to two of his letters)  I 
consider that compensation of £150  is fair and reasonable,  and thats what  I award.  
Ref: DRN40425153my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint. Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited  must  
pay Mr N £150 within 28 days of when  we tell it he has accepted this final decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4042515