K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Brancaster House  Limited (Brancaster) mis-sold him a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr G was sold a PPI policy in connection with a mortgage in November 2004.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld because Mr G was self-
employed at the time of the sale. He said that the restrictions relating to self-employed  
people in the policy meant that the circumstances in which Mr G could make a successful 
claim for unemployment were limited.
Brancaster did not agree  with our adjudicator and reiterated that Mr G would have been 
covered under the policy as a self-employed person. As Brancaster did not agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint. I will now explain why.
In its business  response form, Brancaster accept they advised Mr G to take PPI. This means 
they had to take adequate steps  to ensure the PPI was suitable for him. I cant see that they 
did this and I dont  think the policy was suitable for Mr G.
I appreciate that Brancaster say that Mr Gs complaint is that he wasnt covered under the 
policy as he was self-employed. It is right that the policy did cover self-employed people. But 
the problem is that the terms relating to what a self-employed person needed to do in order  
to make a successful claim were restrictive. This meant it would have made it very difficult 
for Mr G to be able to make  a claim for unemployment under the policy compared to an 
employed person.  
We need to consider any aspects of the sale which could mean that the policy was mis-sold, 
even if not specifically raised by the consumer  in those  terms. As it would have  been  clear to 
Brancaster that Mr G was self-employed (the policy certificate specifies Mr G was self-
employed), I dont  think Brancaster  should have recommended the policy to Mr G.
Even if Brancaster  didnt  advise Mr G to take the policy, they still had to provide Mr G with 
clear information about the policy, highlighting important restrictions. From the paperwork 
Ive seen, I dont  think  the restrictions relating to self-employed people were  highlighted  as 
they should have been. If they had been, I dont think Mr G would have taken the policy out 
as it wouldnt have  been of good value for money in his circumstances.
It follows that I think Brancaster mis-sold Mr G PPI.
Ref: DRN43801022fair compensation
Brancaster should  put Mr G in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Brancaster should:
Pay Mr G the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Brancaster can take off what  he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Brancaster to take off tax from this interest. Brancaster 
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint against  Brancaster House Limited and require them  to pay Mr G 
the compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4380102