K822xcomplaint
Mr H is complaining about the information  Hastings Insurance Services Limited (Hastings)  
gave him when he looked to change the car on his car insurance policy.  
Mr H has been represented by someone else in this complaint, but for ease of reference  I 
shall refer to any statements his representative has made as being made by him.
background 
Mr H took out a car insurance policy through Hastings  a broker.  He paid around  £2,000 for 
the policy. Unfortunately he was involved  in an accident which  resulted  in the insurer writing  
his car off. He called Hastings to understand what he needed to do to replace  his car. And 
he was told that he had 30 days to change the car.
Mr H later called  Hastings  to change the car, but he was told that the insurer wouldnt accept  
the new car. But it also explained  that, as hed made a claim on his policy, he wasnt entitled 
to a refund of the premium.  Mr H is unhappy  because he had to take out a new car 
insurance policy so lost out on the premium hed paid.
Mr H complained to Hastings about the information he was given. Hastings  said it wasnt  
required to advise him which cars the insurer would and wouldnt accept. It said the call 
handler explained to Mr H that he had 30 days to change the car. But it said the call handler 
could have said that Mr H should call Hastings when he found  a replacement car to make 
sure the insurer would cover it for the remainder of the policy.  And it offered him £50 in 
compensation for this.
Mr H didnt accept this offer because  he says £50 doesnt cover the £2,000  hed lost as a 
result of not being  able to add a new car to the policy.
I issued a provisional decision saying I thought Hastings compensation offer was fair. And I 
said the following:
Firstly I should  set out that Im only considering the actions of Hastings in this decision. 
Hastings was acting  as a broker in this complaint. As a broker, Hastings isnt responsible  for 
the actions of the insurer  in particular in respect to the insurers  decision to not accept Mr 
Hs new car on the policy and not giving a refund of the premium.  As the insurer  is not a 
party to this complaint,  Im unable to comment on its actions.
Ive listened to the telephone call Mr H had with Hastings and I can see he called to say hed 
been told that Hastings would be deducting  the remaining  finance  outstanding from his 
settlement figure. The call handler  explained  that deducting the remaining balance would 
mean that the finance is paid up in full and Mr H then had 30 days to add another car to the 
policy. I havent seen  anything to show that the call handler said that the insurer  would have 
covered any car Mr H bought. And Hastings wasnt required to do so. Im satisfied that the 
call handler handled  the call fairly,  answered  the queries raised in a clear way.
I wouldnt expect a call handler  to explain what cars the insurer  would and wouldnt cover as 
it would  be impractical to do so. I think it could have been good practice for the call handler 
to have advised Mr H to call when hed decided what car to buy to ensure it could be added  
to the policy, but it wasnt something she had to do. So I think  Hastings acted  more  than 
reasonably in offering him £50 in compensation as Im not persuaded it did anything wrong.
Ref: DRN41597072Im also conscious that Mr Hs replacement car was a higher value car, so I think Mr H could 
have reasonably thought  that the insurer would have considered the risk to insuring the car 
to be different to what the previous risk was. I also note that the call handler did explain that 
there may be an additional  premium payable depending on what car he acquired.  So I think 
he could have contacted Hastings before he acquired the car to understand how the insurer  
would have treated  the risk for this car. 
It seems  to me that Mr H has lost out because  the insurer wouldnt  insure  his replacement 
car or give a refund of the premium  not because of anything Hastings did wrong. And I 
cant hold Hastings responsible for anything the insurer did.
I appreciate Mr H had the understanding  from the telephone call that hed be able to add any 
car to the policy. But, as I said, I think Hastingss offer of £50 is more  than fair compensation 
for this.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything else to think about, I see no reason  to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached  in my provisional decision. So I still think Hastingss 
offer of £50 is more  than fair compensation for whats happened.
my final decision
Hastings Insurance  Services Limited  has offered Mr H £50 in compensation, which I think  
this is fair for the reasons Ive set out above.  And I dont require it to pay anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4159707