complaint
Mr M complains about correspondence from TSB Bank Plc regarding arrears  on his credit 
card account. 
Mr M has also complained about  TSB not agreeing  to write off his credit card debt. This has 
been dealt with separately. I will only be considering Mr Ms complaint about the 
correspondence hes received.
background
Mr M asked  TSB to write off his outstanding credit card debt because  he had a serious  
medical condition.  TSB didnt agree  to write  off the debt. It told him his credit card account  
would move to its recoveries team. All interest and charges would stop and the team 
wouldnt contact him for the outstanding balance.
Mr M brought his complaint about  TSBs  refusal  to write off the debt to our service. While this 
was being dealt with, Mr M received two credit  card statements from TSB.  A notice of 
arrears letter  was enclosed with the second statement. Mr M didnt  think TSB should have 
sent these to him, given what it had told him previously. He thought  TSB should  give him 
£100 compensation.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ms complaint. He didnt think TSB were  wrong  to send the 
statements. But he thought that by sending  the arrears notice, TSB had breached its 
agreement not to contact Mr M for the outstanding  balance. TSB were  aware that Mr M was 
vulnerable because of his medical condition and that he couldnt make  the payments. He 
recommended TSB pay Mr M £200 for distress and inconvenience.
TSB disagreed with our investigators  view. It said Mr Ms debt hadnt been transferred  to the 
recoveries team because  of the complaint that was with our service. It had put a hold on its 
collections process. It said Mr M was aware of this. It acknowledged  Mr M was vulnerable  
because of his medical  condition,  but it didnt think receiving a letter  about arrears  he already 
knew about would have caused him distress.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 December 2019 where  I explained why I didnt  intend  to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont 
intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont doubt that Mr M has a serious medical  condition and hes also experiencing financial 
difficulty. But what I need to consider is whether TSB has done  anything wrong by sending 
correspondence to him and, if it did, the impact this had on him.
In November 2018, TSB wrote to Mr M in response  to his complaint about its refusal to write 
off his credit  card debt.  In this letter it said your credit card account will now move to our 
Recoveries team. All interest  and charges  will stop and the team will not contact you for the 
outstanding balance owed.
Ref: DRN48188422Following this, Mr M brought his complaint about his credit  card debt to our service.  TSB 
says it decided to put a hold on its collections process, which meant delaying moving the 
account to its recoveries team. I think this was reasonable.  Moving the debt would also have 
involved placing a default on Mr Ms credit file and this might have affected Mr Ms ability  to 
obtain credit  in the future.  So, I can understand why TSB decided  not to go ahead  with it 
while it was waiting for our decision on Mr Ms complaint.  If we had upheld it, TSB would 
have had to write off the debt. 
Mr M phoned TSB after he received his January statement. TSBs contact notes show  he 
was told the account was in the process of being  moved to recoveries and he would receive 
notification once it did. Mr M was also told the letters couldnt be stopped  in the meantime.
I dont think TSB was wrong  to send the statements to Mr M. These were  just making Mr M 
aware of the current status of his account. I can also see TSB had stopped  applying  interest  
and charges to Mr Ms account.
Similarly, I dont  think TSB was wrong  to send Mr M the notice of arrears.  This was informing     
Mr M that he was two months behind on his credit card repayments. It said the Consumer  
Credit Act required TSB to send the letter  because  Mr M had missed payments. It also said 
TSB understood there  may be reasons for missing  payments and to contact it as it would like 
to help with any financial difficulties. So, I dont think this letter was putting  pressure  on Mr M 
to make payment.  
When he received the arrears notice, Mr M would already  have been  aware  his account 
hadnt yet been moved  to the recoveries team. And hed been told the letters couldnt be 
stopped in the meantime.  So, I dont think the notice  would have been unexpected.
 
I can understand why Mr M was unhappy  to still be receiving statements and letters after 
hed been told he wouldnt. But given the circumstances,  I dont  think  TSB has acted  
unreasonably. It wasnt yet in a position to do what it said it would do in its letter  of 
November 2018  because Mr M had brought his complaint to our service  and this was still 
being considered. And Mr M was aware of this when  he received the arrears notice. 
I appreciate things have  been very difficult for Mr M, given his health issues and financial 
position. But to uphold Mr Ms complaint, Id need  to be satisfied that TSB had done  
something wrong. And from what Ive seen so far, I dont think  it has. I know  this will be 
disappointing for Mr M, but this means  I dont intend to ask TSB to pay the £200  our 
investigator recommended for distress and inconvenience .
responses to my provisional  decision
TSB said it didnt have anything further  to add. Mr M disagreed with my provisional decision,  
but he didnt provide any new information  for me to consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything new, I see no reason  to change my conclusions.
Ref: DRN48188423my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4818842