K822xcomplaint
Mr M says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold him a fee-paying  Silver account  in June 
2009. Lloyds agreed it was mis-sold  and initially refunded Mr M the account fees he was 
charged to have the account and paid him 8% simple interest on those fees.  
Mr M says that Lloyds offer didnt fully reflect  all of the charges he incurred, as well as the 
distress and inconvenience caused by Lloyds incorrectly selling him the account.  Mr M says 
he would  like £10,000 compensation.
background 
Mr M was sold a fee-paying Silver packaged account in June 2009 and held it until 
November 2009  when it was downgraded to a fee-free account. The account was later 
closed in June  2011.
In response to Mr Ms complaint Lloyds paid Mr M a total of £54.32, comprising of £33.84 in 
account fees and £20.48 in interest  (8% simple interest, less tax) on those fees. 
Following this offer, Lloyds made  a revised  offer to pay Mr M a total of £733.42 in additional 
charges Mr M incurred as a direct result of holding the PBA (i.e. overdraft charges) and 
£458.95 in compensatory interest  on those  charges (again calculated at 8% simple, less 
tax).
Our adjudicator considered the revised offer made by Lloyds and they felt that the offer was 
fair. This was because  they were  satisfied that the resultant overdrawn balance on the 
account, even  after it had been downgraded, wasnt made up entirely  of overdraft charges, 
as Mr M had made withdrawals from the account. They said that as Mr M was crediting 
money into the account to bring  it back into a credit balance, they concluded that he was 
monitoring the account and so couldve took steps to avoid receiving the county court  
judgement.
Mr M disagreed and said that he should get compensation because the overdrawn balance 
on the account was eventually sold to a third-party  debt collector and he eventually  received 
a County Court Judgement registered  against  him for the outstanding balance. So he asked 
for an ombudsman to review whether the offer made  by Lloyds was reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  mis-sold packaged  bank  accounts  on our website and Ive used this to help 
me decide this complaint.
As Lloyds  has already  accepted it mis-sold the Silver account,  the remaining matter  for me 
to decide in this case is whether Lloydss offer is reasonable  in the circumstances.
I think it will help to explain from the outset  that where a business has done something 
wrong or acted unfairly, any redress our service  recommends is designed to put the 
consumer back into the position they wouldve been in had the wrongdoing not happened.
Ref: DRN45330872So in this case, the aim of any redress is to put Mr M back in the position he likely wouldve  
been in had the Silver account  not been  sold to him. 
It goes without saying  that had Mr M not been  sold the Silver account, he would not have  
been charged the monthly Silver account  fees  which Lloyds has already refunded back. 
And as Mr M didnt have  the benefit  of this money  Lloyds  has also paid Mr M 8% simple  
interest on those fees, less deductible tax. 
However, since our involvement Lloyds  has now made a further offer.  In summary  it has 
agreed to refund all the overdraft charges that Mr M incurred  as a result  of the packaged 
account fees. And it has paid him compensatory  interest on those charges, as hes not had 
the benefit of that money. I will outline the figures  that Lloyds has provided  below.
Having considered Lloyds offer, I think it is reasonable.  I will explain why.
Had Mr M not been sold the Silver  account,  his account would not have been as overdrawn 
as it ended up being. So I think that refunding all of the overdraft charges that Mr M incurred 
as a result  of having the packaged account  is reasonable,  because  his overdraft would have 
been smaller, without  those account  fees. And again, as he has not had the benefit of that 
money, I think  its reasonable that Lloyds pay compensatory interest  on that amount (at 8% 
simple, less tax). So on the whole, I think the amounts it offered Mr M were  reasonable.
However, in addition to this offer,  Mr M has also asked that he receive £10,000 
compensation. Mr M says he wants this because he says he was forced into taking  out a 
loan to pay the overdraft off and eventually received a county court judgment (CCJ) against 
him for the debt.
In relation to Mr Ms comments about a loan being  provided to pay the debt off, I cant  see 
that a loan was granted to Mr M by Lloyds for this purpose. I can see that £686.73  was 
credited into the account on 28 June 2011. But this payment was not a loan, it was 
essentially an accounting process to bring the account to a zero balance  - as bank accounts 
can only be closed once  brought to a zero or credit balance. The outstanding debt i.e. the 
£686.73 that had been credited  to his account,  was then passed to Lloyds collections 
department. 
Turning to the CCJ that Mr M has mentioned,  Lloyds  says that it did not apply  for a CCJ 
against Mr M. It does say however, that it sold the debt on to a third party in 2014   but it 
unfortunately has no information  about  what happened to the debt after 2014. Selling a debt 
on  because it is not being  repaid  is a commercial decision  that lenders can make.  And 
given that the debt had initially  been passed to the collections department in 2011,  I dont  
think Lloyds decision to sell the debt on in 2014 was unreasonable in the circumstances, 
particularly as I cant see that the debt was being  repaid.
Nevertheless, as I have said above, had the packaged account not been sold to Mr M, I 
dont think the overdrawn balance wouldve been as big as it was  as reflected by the 
amount of overdraft charges that Lloyds is offering to pay Mr M. So I think  its possible that 
Mr M may not have  ended up in the position  of having a debt sold on to a third party  by 
Lloyds, had the packaged account  not been  sold to him. 
But, in the investigation of this complaint  the adjudicator asked  Mr M if he could provide 
evidence of the CCJ, so that we could see what happened to the debt after it was sold on. 
But unfortunately Mr M has not provided  anything to support his claim that a CCJ had been 
Ref: DRN45330873recorded against him for this debt.  In fact, when the adjudicator asked Mr M if had had any 
evidence, he said we should take his word for it  even though, if a CCJ was recorded  
against him, it mustve  happened at some point  since 2014 and so there  should  still be 
evidence of this.
Therefore, as neither party has provided evidence  to show what  happened to the debt after it 
had been sold on by Lloyds, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to do to put matters 
right is reasonable  in the circumstances.
Putting things  right
As outlined  above,  Lloyds  has agreed  to pay Mr M the following to put matters right. 
Mr M should note that, if he accepts  my decision, the amount calculated for compensatory 
interest i.e. 8% simple  interest, should  be slightly more than what is stated below, as this 
should be calculated  up to the date of settlement.
Refund of Silver account fees: £32.84
Plus other overdraft charges incurred as a result of holding the Silver  account: £734.42
Less fees and charges  already refunded: £33.84
Compensatory interest  (at 8% simple per annum)  £599.29
Less compensatory interest  already refunded  £25.60
Less basic rate of tax £114.74
Total refund £1,192.37
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I uphold  this complaint and require  Lloyds Bank PLC 
to put matters right in line with its offer, as outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4533087