K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in
1999. The PPI was added to the account  at the same time that Mrs P took out the store  card 
in person in store.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs P says FICL mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs P 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ps case and Ill explain why.  
FICL needed to give Mrs P clear information  about  the PPI before she agreed to take it. That 
included highlighting anything that could make  it difficult for Mrs P to make a successful 
claim.
Mrs P says she suffered  from a pre-existing medical condition at the point of sale.  I think this 
is important because the policy she took out excluded cover for pre-existing  medical  
conditions. And based  on the type of condition Mrs P had and what she has told us about 
how severely the condition affected  her, I think its likely she wouldve thought this condition  
is something she mightve needed to claim on the policy  for.
Based on what Ive seen  of the available terms and conditions from the time, Mrs P wouldnt 
have been able to claim for any condition she wouldve known about prior to the sale or had 
sought medical advice for 12 months  before the start date of the cover. And as Mrs P knew  
about her condition before the policy was taken out I dont think  she would have been able to 
make a successful claim for any time off as a result of this. So I think FICL should have 
pointed out the exclusion to Mrs P and Ive not seen anything to suggest it did this.
So I think Mrs P wouldve seen her medical condition as a likely reason she might want  to 
make a claim under the policy. And I dont think Mrs P wouldve bought this policy  if shed 
understood that she wouldnt  be able to claim for it. So I think shes lost out because of what
FICL did wrong.
So, for the reasons mentioned above,  I uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs P in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
Ref: DRN47020182A. FICL  should find out how much Mrs P would have owed when she closed her store  
card account if the policy  hadnt been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs P owed when she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. FICL  should add simple interest  on the difference between what Mrs P would have 
owed when  she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when FICL works out what Mrs P would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs P paid more than enough  to clear her balance, FICL should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs P paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs P wouldve owed  FICL  something on her store  card. The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year.
D. FICL  should tell Mrs P what its done  to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs P that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs P a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint.  So Financial Insurance
Company Limited  should pay Mrs P compensation in line with the instructions set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4702018