K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. Mr S 
says that HSBC UK Bank  plc (HSBC) mis-sold  him the policy.
background
Mr S was sold the policy hes complained about  in 1997. It was sold to protect a mortgage  
and HSBC says that, in return for a monthly  premium of just under £18, the monthly benefit 
was £300.
When Mr S first contacted  to HSBC, he complained about two different products  PPI and 
HSBCs Mortgage Protection  Plan, which provided life and critical illness cover.  HSBC  
couldnt find a PPI policy at first. But having eventually done  so, it issued a final response 
letter in October last year that concluded the policy hadnt been  mis-sold. 
Unhappy with HSBCs initial handling  of the complaint,  Mr S raised a new complaint and 
asked HSBC to compensate him for the time and effort he had to go to when  complaining 
about the sale of PPI. And he provided  HSBC with an invoice for £560. 
Mr S also referred his complaint about the PPI policy  to us and it was allocated  to one of our 
adjudicators to look at. Not long after that, HSBC sent Mr S a final response letter dealing 
with the complaint it made about its handling of his PPI complaint. It acknowledged that it 
had made  a mistake  and offered  him £50 as a gesture of goodwill.  Our adjudicator  then 
looked at everything  together  and came to the opinion that the PPI policy  hadnt  been mis-
sold and that HSBCs  offer of £50 was a reasonable response to the mistakes it made when 
Mr S first complained.
However, Mr S disagreed  with our adjudicators opinion and wasnt  willing to accept HSBCs 
gesture of goodwill. So the complaint was passed  to me for a decision.
For the avoidance of doubt, this decision only deals with the sale of Mr Ss PPI policy and 
the complaint  he made about  HSBCs complaint handling. His complaint about the 
Mortgage Protection Plan is being  dealt with separately under a different  reference  number.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this complaint.
And having done that, I agree with the overall conclusion reached  by our adjudicator  for 
broadly the same reasons.  I realise this will be disappointing for Mr S. But I hope  he will 
understand and accept  why.
There is limited  information available in this complaint   which, while a challenge, isnt 
unusual or unreasonable given how much time has passed since the event in question. But 
when evidence isnt quite complete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I have to 
make my decision  based on what I think is more likely to have happened however limited the 
information might be.
Ref: DRN43683562HSBC has provided  us with the following documents:
Mr Ss financial  planning review (FPR) from 1997;
A summary of the review; and
A letter sent to Mr S on 20 January 1997.
Having looked  at all three of these documents, and considered what Mr S has said 
throughout the complaint,  Im satisfied that he agreed to take the PPI as the letter addressed  
to him makes it clear  that the policy was discussed, recommended  and agreed  to during his 
FPR. Whats more,  Mr S did sign a declaration at the end of the three  page  summary to 
confirm what had been said, provided and agreed to during the review  including  his right to 
cancel the policy.  And as theres nothing persuasive  in any of the documents to suggest  he 
had to take the PPI, Im persuaded that its more likely he agreed knowing he didnt have to.
HSBC says that it recommended the PPI to Mr S  which means it had to make sure the 
policy was right for him. And based  on everything  Ive seen, I think  that it was suitable for 
him overall.  
It doesnt look like Mr S was likely  to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  
on the cover. I know he says he had private  medical insurance and was entitled to some sick 
pay. But private medical insurance isnt the same thing as PPI. So it doesnt have a bearing 
on the recommendation HSBC made.  Moreover, he was taking on a significant financial 
commitment on a secured  basis. The mortgage  repayments were important repayments to 
maintain in the event he found himself  out of or unable to work. And as the policy would 
have helped him to keep  up with the repayments  over a reasonable period of time in return 
for a premium that there isnt any persuasive  evidence to suggest was unaffordable, Im not 
persuaded the recommendation  was unsuitable  especially when the policy  also provided 
him with the freedom  to use his sick pay elsewhere.
Mr S has questioned the sale of the PPI because of the Mortgage Protection Plan. But it 
provided different  cover  to what the PPI offered. So the fact that he was sold both products 
isnt a reason  to uphold this particular complaint.
As well as making sure the policy was suitable  for Mr S, HSBC also had to give him clear  
information. So thats what Ive looked  at next.
Its possible the information given to Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have 
been. But, for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable  overall,  Im not persuaded 
better information about the policy would have led him to make  a different decision and not 
take the cover. 
And finally, as for the handling  of Mr Ss PPI complaint, I know  he thinks that HSBC  
prevaricated and attempted  to discourage him from complaining. He says, for example,  that 
HSBC misrepresented the events at the time of sale when it stated in its final response  letter  
(FRL) that he had signed a declaration in his FPR. But its clear  to me that HSBC referred to 
the summary  of the FPR  which, as Ive said above, he did sign at the end. So I dont think 
HSBC misrepresented what had happened  even if there were  some pages missing  from 
what was enclosed with the FRL. And as theres  little if any other compelling evidence  to 
suggest HSBC  acted in the way Mr S thinks it did, I dont think it did anything more  than 
make some genuine mistakes.
Ref: DRN43683563Mr S has his own thoughts on how much  compensation should be awarded for what  went  
wrong. But it may be helpful if I explain that our role isnt to punish  businesses when they 
make mistakes.  And as some of the time and effort spent on a complaint is the inevitable 
consequence of making it, it doesnt  always follow that compensation should  be relative to 
just how much is spent.
Both sides have attempted to get to grips with things and it isnt, in my view, unusual  or 
necessarily unreasonable that it took some  time and effort to do that  nor is it surprising 
that, due to human error, mistakes were made.
So, with everything  Ive said in mind,  I find it hard to argue  that HSBC has done something 
wrong or acted so unreasonably as to warrant more compensation than the £50 it has 
offered. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided that the PPI policy  wasnt  mis-sold. 
Ive also decided that the offer of £50 made  by HSBC, in recognition of the mistakes it made 
while handling Mr Ss PPI complaint, is reasonable. So, subject to whether Mr S accepts or 
rejects this decision, it will be for HSBC UK Bank plc to pay him that money.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019..
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4368356