K820x#14complaint
Ms As complaint is about the mis-sale of a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) has taken responsibility for the sale,  so Ill 
refer to FICL  throughout  this decision.  
background
The PPI was sold to Ms A in 2000 with a store card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Ms A disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Ive seen a copy  of the card application  form that Ms A signed. This has a section about  the 
PPI policy  headed  Account Cover (only  sign this box if you require Account Cover). And 
below this is the following printed statement: Yes, I would like to protect my Account  with 
Account Cover (subject to eligibility). Please  debit  my Account with the relevant monthly 
premium until further notice.   And I can see that Ms A has signed in the place provided.
Ms A says she wasnt  told anything about  the PPI and that a store  assistant completed most 
of this application form for her and marked with a cross the places where she should sign.  
But I have to take account of the fact that this sale took place  over eighteen years ago and 
memories tend to fade over such long time periods. So whilst its possible that the store  
assistant didnt mention  the PPI and simply told her to sign for it, I dont think  this is most  
likely to have been what happened.  I also think Ms A would have asked  why she was being 
told to sign separately for the PPI if she hadnt  already agreed to take it. And I can see that 
there was an option on the form to take out a card protection plan which  wasnt selected.
So having  carefully considered all the evidence available to me, I think its most likely that 
Ms A actively decided to take the PPI, knowing that she could choose  not to do so.
Both FICL and Ms A say that this wasnt an advised  sale, so Ive taken this to be the case.  
This means  that FICL didnt need to ensure that the policy  was suitable for Ms A. But it still 
needed to give her enough information about  the policy for her to decide  if she wanted to 
take it. From what Ive seen, I think that FICL could have provided  better  information  to Ms A 
than it did. But I dont  think  that better information would have changed her mind about  
buying it. I say this because:
She appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
Ref: DRN40032892Ms A thinks she was entitled  to some sick pay from her employer but cant  remember 
how much. And she doesnt seem to have had any other  means of making her monthly 
payments on her card if she couldnt work because of an accident,  sickness or 
unemployment. In any event,  the policy would  have paid out in addition to any other 
means she might have had available at the time. So I think she would  have found  the 
protection the policy gave her useful if things  went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Ms A. And as the premiums were 
paid monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.
So I dont  think that Ms A has lost out by anything that FICL may have done wrong when it 
sold her this policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4003289