K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint concerns:
The charging of an Ongoing Advice Fee by Attivo Financial Services  Limited  in 
respect of investments on which they feel they havent been  given advice.
Service failures in respect  of the provision of their 2018 review  meeting report.  
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Ls complaint, a copy of which  is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I felt the 
complaint should  be upheld,  in part. 
In respect of the Ongoing Advice  Fee, I was satisfied it had been made reasonably clear to 
Mr and Mrs L that it would apply to their whole portfolio, ISAs included, despite  specific  
advice not always  being given on this part of the portfolio. So, I didnt think that part of the 
complaint should  be upheld.  
In respect of the service failures, I explained that I thought they were of sufficient 
seriousness that Attivos offer of £50 should  be increased to £250, particularly as they 
concerned data protection and it wasnt the first occasion Mr and Mrs L had experienced 
such problems. 
Attivo agreed to the increase in compensation, highlighting that I had effectively reached the 
same conclusion it had done on the issue of the service failures, but simply recommended  a 
higher level of compensation. 
Mr and Mrs L also accepted my view on the service  failures. But they reiterated their 
argument that they should not have been charged the Ongoing Advice Fee in respect of their 
ISAs. They  provided  some additional  evidence  to support their position.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted my view regarding the increased  compensation for the 
service failures, it remains only for me to reconsider the matter of the Ongoing Advice Fee. 
And having done so, I find Im still of the view that Attivo  charged  the fee correctly  and fairly.  
Ive looked at the additional evidence Mr and Mrs L have provided.  One item is an email 
exchange where they were offered advice on their ISAs but declined  it. I dont think this 
shows that Attivo acted  incorrectly in any way  if Mr and Mrs L had wanted advice it would 
simply have been  paid for by way of the ongoing advice fee. The fact that they chose not to 
take advice at that time doesnt mean  that the fee shouldnt have been  applied. 
The second  piece of evidence, an extract from Attivo's Retirement Planning 
Recommendation Report contains some references  to fees. Within it I cant  see anything 
that leads me to question my previous conclusion that the Ongoing  Advice  Fee was charged  
based on the value of all investments held. While there is a reference to Mr and Mrs L 
having opted for initial advice only, its not entirely  clear what context  this is in. And in any 
Ref: DRN41149832event, the report  goes on in the next paragraph to explain  how ongoing advice can be 
cancelled if Mr and Mrs L decide they do not require it. 
Overall, on balance, I remain of the view that the evidence taken as a whole  supports the 
conclusion that the Ongoing Advice Fee was applied correctly  and fairly. As I noted in my 
provisional decision, the ISAs were investments set up for Mr and Mrs L by Attivo  on regular 
occasions over the years.  And, as the additional  evidence shows, they were investments  on 
which Mr and Mrs L could have received advice on as part of the fee.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the decision in part and direct Attivo 
Financial Services Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs L compensation  of £250, including the £50 
already offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41149833COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint concerns:
The charging of an Ongoing  Advice Fee by Attivo Financial Services Limited  in respect of 
investments on which they feel they havent been given advice.
Service failures in respect of the provision of their 2018  review meeting report.  
background
Mr and Mrs L have been receiving investment  advice from Attivo  since 2013.  Their portfolio consists  
of a SIPP,  general  investments and stocks and shares ISAs.  Theyve been paying  the ongoing advice 
fee for some years,  which is paid for by way of a charge equivalent to 1% of the total value of all 
assets held. 
The fee entitles them to, among other things, an annual  review of their financial position.  It was 
following the review held in November  2018 that the complaint was made. 
There were  issues with the provision of the written report of the meeting. Mr and Mrs L were 
concerned that they didnt receive a copy of it and were worried that it may have gone astray. When 
they chased it up and a replacement  was provided  it included multiple  errors, including the apparent 
use of another  clients name. 
These issues led to a complaint being made to Attivo.  The complaint also included  Mr and Mrs Ls 
additional concern that they had been  charged the ongoing fee in respect of their ISAs  a part of their 
investment portfolio that they specifically  felt they had not received any ongoing advice  on. They  
considered that Attivo should therefore provide a pro-rata refund of charges. 
Attivo didnt uphold the part of the complaint  concerning the ongoing charge as it felt it had been 
correctly applied, in line with the signed client agreements.  But it accepted that mistakes had been 
made with the report and offered Mr and Mrs L £50 compensation.
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept this and referred the complaint to this service. But our investigator reached 
the same conclusions  as Attivo and felt that the offer of £50 was fair. 
Mr and Mrs L responded to say:
They  maintained there had been an element  of overcharging.
No advice  had been sought or given in respect of the ISAs.
Assets  that Attivo  have  no involvement  with should not be subject to the charge  for 
instance, it would be absurd to apply the charge to other assets  like their house.
Fees  should be based on advice given on assets under active  discussion.   
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, the matters been referred  to me to 
review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN41149834Ill deal first with Mr and Mrs Ls concerns about the ongoing advice fee. On this point Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator. I dont think Attivo has done anything wrong.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ls point  about the fee applying in years when  there may have been no 
particular focus on the ISAs  or advice  given about them. But it was clearly set out in the 
documentation supplied to them that the ongoing fee would be determined based  on the value of the 
whole portfolio. I note what Mr and Mrs L have  said about  their other investments  for instance,  their 
property  but I dont think its reasonable  to conclude  that the reference to assets in the terms was 
intended to include  items so far removed  from Attivos involvement. In contrast, the ISAs  were 
investments set up for Mr and Mrs L by Attivo  on regular  occasions over the years.
This type of ongoing fee is not unusual  or specific to Attivo. Its an alternative to hourly, ad-hoc  
charging, as a sort of fixed-price  service  plan.  Depending on the amount and type of advice sought 
and provided,  it may well work out as a cost-efficient means of paying  for advice. But, providing the 
way in which the charge  is calculated is set out clearly, I think its the responsibility of the client to 
decide if it remains cost-efficient for their specific circumstances. The fee can always  be stopped,  as 
Mr and Mrs L have now done. 
Turning to the other part of the complaint, concerning  the 2018 review report, its on this point that my 
view deviates from that of the investigator. I dont think £50 is a fair level of compensation  and Ill 
explain why.
Following the meeting in November 2018 Mr and Mrs L were concerned not to have received a copy 
of the written meeting  report,  which included a great deal of sensitive private information. Whats  been 
somewhat overlooked so far is the fact that only a year previously, in November  2017,  Attivo had 
needed to apologise  to Mrs L after transfer forms in her name  had been sent to another client.  
So, I think its entirely understandable  that Mr and Mrs L had concerns about the reports 
whereabouts. And, further, that they were unhappy  with the advisers  response, which  simply directed 
them to chase  up the matter  with Royal Mail. This was further compounded  by the fact that when  the 
matter was properly investigated following  the complaint  being  made it was discovered that the report 
had actually  never been  sent, because of an internal communication error. 
Further the replacement  sent to Mr and Mrs L in January 2019 contained numerous errors, including  
the use of what may well have been another clients name.  Upon investigation,  this was found  to be 
the result of another internal  error. 
So, I think it can be seen  that all this wouldve caused Mr and Mrs L more  than some  degree of 
trouble and upset as noted  in Attivos final response letter.  And that £50 doesnt really go far enough 
to address the series  of errors  particularly  as they concern the matter of data protection. In my view, 
I think  a more reasonable level of compensation would  be £250.
I appreciate this is not really the resolution that Mr and Mrs L are seeking, given their primary focus in 
response to the investigators  view concerned the ongoing fee issue. But I nevertheless feel its fair in 
all the circumstances.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further comments I receive, Im currently minded to uphold 
the complaint and direct  Attivo Financial Services Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs L £250.
Ref: DRN4114983