K821x#15complaint
M complains  that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus) (Cashplus)  is 
holding it liable for two transactions  it didnt  authorise.
M is essentially Mr H, who Ill refer to as M throughout this decision.
background
The two transactions in dispute total £21,400.  They were both made on 16 August 2017 by 
online bank  transfer:  the first for £20,000 at 5:00am, and the second for £1,400  at 12:24pm.
M says that it didn't make or consent to the payments. When Cashplus didnt agree to refund 
the transactions, M referred  its complaint  here. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She wasnt persuaded M authorised  the transactions  
or that it was reasonable for Cashplus to have  let the transactions  proceed. She 
recommended that Cashplus  refund M the £21,400, and pay M interest on that amount at 
8% simple  per year less any required  tax obligations.
M accepted this recommendation. But Cashplus did not. The case has therefore been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific  point, 
its not because  Ive failed to take it on board and think about  it, but because  I dont think  I 
need to comment  on it to reach the right outcome.
As our investigator explained, the regulations relevant to this case are the Payment Services  
Regulations 2009. Generally speaking, banks will be liable for unauthorised payments. And 
a payment out of someones account can only be authorised if the payer has consented to it. 
So its not enough for Cashplus  to show the payments were authenticated  (for example by a 
personalised set of procedures needed to initiate  the payments). To decide that M 
authorised the payments, Id also need  to be persuaded  that M more likely than not 
consented to the payments.
Its not possible to be certain about  this. So I need to make up my mind based on what I 
think is more likely  than not, based on the available evidence. Having done so, Im satisfied 
from the evidence  Cashplus has provided that the payments  were  authenticated,  but not that 
M most likely  consented to the payments. Ive reached this conclusion for materially  the 
same reasons as our investigator. 
M was working on an oil rig from 14 August 2017 to 28 August 2017, and the two disputed  
transactions left his account on 16 August 2017. I understand that to authenticate the 
payments, the individual(s) responsible wouldve needed to know  Ms online banking 
username and two separate passwords. There is also information that indicates Cashplus 
sent password  reminders to Ms email address on 15 August 2017 ; an email at 5:00pm 
confirming the payment  for £20,000;  a further email  at 8:39am  the next day on 16 August 
Ref: DRN457409022017 when the £20,000 went out; and also text messages over that two-day period about the 
payments. Cashplus has also said that it called M on 16 August 2017 and left a voice  
message. Ive therefore thought very carefully, bearing this in mind,  about whether its 
plausible and likely that M didnt authorise or otherwise  consent  to the payments. 
M states that it did not, to its knowledge,  receive  the emails, text messages or voicemail that 
Cashplus has said it left. As Ive said, I cant be sure about this. And this is an unusual and 
unique case. In the individual  circumstances here,  I do find what M has said to be 
persuasive. Im not persuaded M consented  to the transactions. So I think if M had received 
the messages,  it most likely would have contacted Cashplus  about the disputed transactions  
sooner. I understand that Ms mobile  network, at the time in question,  did not provide a text-
message-over-wifi feature, so bearing  Ms location in mind,  that could explain why text 
messages werent  received. I also note that Cashplus has not been  able to provide evidence 
that sufficiently persuades  me M wouldve  received a voicemail  about  the transactions  in 
time.  
There is also the matter  of the emails that M says it did not receive.  I think  that to have 
executed the transactions without  Ms knowledge,  the third party most likely would have 
needed the security  details  to access both Ms email  account and online banking. Its unclear 
exactly how this couldve happened. But I dont need to be certain  about how this could have 
happened. Nor is it for Cashplus or M to show this. But I do think that if a third party did 
execute the payments in this way, its not entirely  surprising  that any emails Cashplus sent M 
werent available for M to read.
Its my understanding that M wasnt a direct employee on the oil rig, but instead a contractor. 
And so M would, from time to time, as I understand things, use site computers  by logging in 
using a colleagues username  and password.  Cashplus hasnt been  able to provide the IP 
addresses of the logins to Ms online banking at the key points around the two transactions 
in question. But I note that its records do show multiple logins to Ms online  banking 
spanning from 15 August  2017 to 28 August 2017. Its noticeable that the first 18 of these 
logins, dated from 15 to 22 August 2017, were  on a Windows 10 computer  spanning from 
the day the new payees were set up until immediately before when M has said it first 
became aware  of the transactions.
Cashplus says that an online  banking session ID is a unique  number given to a browser  
window when it is opened. And it has made much of the fact that its records show  the same 
online banking session  ID for the logins  from 15 August 2017 to 22 August 2017. Cashplus 
also says that its website automatically  logs out a customer after 15 minutes of inactivity,  but 
the browser session  can remain open.  So it seems that the browser  window may have been  
kept open for a considerable period. But I dont think this shows  M is most likely  responsible  
 this could just have easily have been  the third party. 
Instead I find what M has said to be plausible and persuasive  that it doesnt understand 
how the fraud took place. But that it tried to buy flight(s) on 18 August  2017 using its card 
and the transaction was declined, but it didnt feel concerned enough  at that point to login 
online to check the account; and it only realised  on 22 August 2017  that the two disputed  
payments had been made, after a further  payment for flight(s) was declined, and that M then 
used a computer  at the oil rig to login to its account.  This rings true with the login history 
Cashplus has provided. The account  statement details  provided by Cashplus show  that 
transactions on 22 August 2017 were  declined at 11:19pm  and 11:24pm,  each for £221. I 
also note that the recorded logins from 11:25pm that day until 8:17am the next morning were 
not from the Windows 10 computer used to login from 15 to 22 August 2017, but instead a 
Ref: DRN45740903Windows 7 computer and a mobile device,  with different session IDs to that of the Windows 
10 computer.
Overall, Im just not persuaded that Cashplus has shown that M authorised or otherwise 
consented to the disputed  transactions.  There do remain significant  questions as to how a 
third party would have  been able to authenticate  the transactions  without  Ms consent. But 
here, although its not entirely clear how it would  have  happened,  given all the 
circumstances, Ms testimony, and the fact M was working on an oil rig in unusual 
circumstances, I do think its most likely that a third party authorised the transactions without 
Ms knowledge and consent. Its not enough  for Cashplus  to rely on the fact that Ms security  
information was used to authenticate the transactions, and it has not provided  evidence that 
persuades me M consented  to the transactions.  
Im aware that Cashplus  position is that if M didnt consent to the transactions then it must 
otherwise have been grossly negligent  (for example by keeping a browser  open), as it stated  
in its final response letter  to M in October 2017. But M maintains that it always  logs out of its 
accounts. I think its fair and reasonable to say that gross negligence suggests a lack of care 
that goes significantly  beyond negligence. And theres not enough evidence  here to 
persuade me that M has acted with a serious disregard or indifference to a known risk. So 
Im not persuaded theres enough here to say M was grossly negligent, nor therefore that 
Cashplus should be entitled to not refund  M the disputed transactions  on this basis.
Im satisfied that Cashplus should also pay M interest. Im persuaded that M couldve used 
this money beyond it just sitting  in the account,  such that it has been  deprived of the use of 
this money. So Cashplus  should pay M interest from the date the transactions  were debited 
from the account up to the date of settlement, calculated at 8% simple per year.  If Cashplus 
is required to take off tax from this interest, then Cashplus must give M a certificate  showing 
how much  tax its taken off if M asks it to.
Ive considered everything Cashplus  has said. But for the reasons Ive explained above, 
these points dont  change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and I direct Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited (trading  as Cashplus) to:
Pay M £21,400 to refund the transactions.
Pay M interest on that amount calculated  from the date the transactions were debited  
from the account up to the date of settlement. Interest should be calculated at 8% simple 
per year. If Cashplus  is required to take off tax from this interest, then Cashplus must give 
M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if M asks it to.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Neil Bridge
Ref: DRN45740904ombudsman
Ref: DRN4574090