K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr R says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Capital One had to make Mr R aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before 
adding it to his card. Capital One sas provided a copy of the call script that was in place at 
the time Mr R took the PPI and it shows  that advisors were  required to present the policy  as 
optional, and gain consent. While I cant be certain  of how closely  the script  was followed I 
think its a good  indication of what was discussed during the call. So with this in mind I think  
Capital One made it clear  that Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he may not remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr R got the information  he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means he had of making 
his repayments,  which included some sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  
to and for longer than Mr Rs sick pay. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Rs circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN47310752
Ref: DRN4731075