K821x#15complaint
Mr W and Ms M complain that British  Gas Insurance Limiteds  (BG) engineer damaged  the 
wooden flooring in their home when changing  a radiator under their HomeCare policy, and 
BG has unreasonably  declined to pay for the damage.
background
Mr W said that when BGs  engineer serviced their heating  system, he drained  a radiator to 
remove corrosive material, but failed  to secure  the drain points allowing rusty sludge to 
emerge. Mr W said that he and the engineer used sponges to clean up where they could, but 
the puddle had spread  to about  four feet by nine feet. He said it wasnt easy  to see how 
badly the flooring was stained  until later. 
Mr W said the engineer later denied the events had happened and said there was extensive 
pre-existing staining. Mr W said although there had been a drip, this had only led to staining 
concentrated in a few inches immediately below the radiator and away  from the stain  caused 
by the engineer. 
BG said the floor was already  damaged  by an initial leak.  It said it directed Mr W and Ms M 
to their home insurer, but the insurer had said it was a matter for BG. BG said its engineer 
advised there were  stains all over the floor, not just under the radiator.  The engineer said the 
second leak was cleaned up quickly and he didn't think  it had caused  any further damage.
BG said it wasnt  possible from Mr Ws photos or its engineers photos to determine when 
each lot of damage  was caused. BG said it didnt accept liability for the damage  to the floor 
as there  was evidence  of pre-existing  damage.  It offered a goodwill gesture of £50 for the
inconvenience of having to clean  up the second  leak.
The investigator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  She said the engineer  hadnt  
closed all the valves and water went over the floor. She said that later that day Mr W and Ms 
M noticed  dark marks on their floors.  And from the evidence  she thought the damage wasnt 
due to the initial, localised leak as the affected  area is larger, suggesting  a bigger spill.
The investigator said BGs engineer offered Mr W and Ms M's £500 off a new boiler,  which 
suggested he was aware the leak had caused further damage.  She said BG should  replace 
Mr W and Ms Ms floors or do a full sanding, cleaning and sealing to their current floors . 
BG disagreed. It said thered already been  a leak for an unknown  period, which  could have 
travelled on the floor.  It said the water from its engineers leak wasnt on the floor for any 
length of time and so may not have caused any additional damage. BG said it may only be 
liable for a very small  contribution, and offered to send an assessor to review the flooring. 
BG said the £500  off a new boiler  was available to all existing HomeCare customers.
BG said the assessors  report  found that the wooden flooring had been stained over an area 
approximately one metre  squared, directly in front of the radiator. BG said it's clear  there  
was some existing damage where  the radiator  originally leaked. It said its position remains  
the same, as you cannot damage  something twice.  BG refused to provide our service  with a 
copy of the assessors  report and requested  an ombudsman review  the complaint.
Ref: DRN45413062my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BG acknowledged that its engineer had caused a leak at Mr W and Ms Ms home, but said 
this didn't cause  any damage and it wouldnt pay for the floor to be repaired. BG said that 
there was no obvious difference  in the floor staining after the leak caused by its engineer. 
Ive looked carefully  at the descriptions  and photos of the flooring to understand what 
happened and whether  or not BG has been fair to refuse to pay towards the repair  of Mr W 
and Ms Ms floor. 
It appears that Mr W has described the existing staining to his floor and its extent. He said 
thats why he called out BG and hed been  happy to take care of this damage. From what  
Ive seen, the engineer replaced the radiator, but in testing the new one hadnt checked all 
valves were closed leading to flooding. This appears  to have caused quite and extensive 
leak and the engineer and Mr W cleared this up quickly.  But I dont think that means that 
staining wouldnt emerge  over time. 
BG said water from the original leak could've travelled. This is a possibility, but BG hasnt 
provided any proof that this is what happened. BG obtained  a report from an assessor on 
which it relied to confirm its position that it isnt liable for the damage. Unfortunately,  BG has 
refused to provide a copy of the report to our service. But according to BG the assessor 
found that the wooden  flooring  had been  stained  over an area of approximately  one metre 
squared, directly  in front of the radiator  and that this had been caused by a leak. 
The staining  described by the assessor is of a much bigger area than has been described  
and photographed  by Mr W of the initial leak. And so, I think it's more  likely than not that it 
was the second, bigger leak which caused the staining to Mr W and Ms Ms floor.
Large quantities of water  on a wooden floor can affect it badly, even if removed quickly as in 
this case. From what Mr W and the assessor have said it wasnt just water  that escaped  but 
fernox and slurry that had been  trapped within the heating  system. And so I find it likely that 
this caused the damage to the flooring  that Mr W and the assessor have described.
Because I think the damage to Mr W and Ms Ms floor came  from the second  leak,  rather 
than the drips from the heating system  that caused  Mr W to call BG to fix the problem, BG 
should make  good the damage. BG can use its own contractor to do the work.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require British Gas Insurance Limited to either  replace Mr W and Ms Ms floor or pay for a 
full sanding, cleaning  and sealing to the affected  flooring.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 June  2020.
Andrew Fraser
Ref: DRN45413063ombudsman
Ref: DRN4541306