K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited gave him misleading information 
about his pension.
background
Mr P contacted Aviva in January  2018  to make  enquiries about  his pension. His annual  
pension illustration showed his fund value  and transfer value and underneath it said In 
addition there is a Non Profit Deferred Annuity (NPDA)  of £2,463.69 per year . Mr P wanted  
to find out whether this really meant he would receive this sum on top of his pension.
Aviva sent him a letter  explaining the nature  of the NDPA. However, Mr P found this unclear 
and called up Aviva  again a few months  later to clarify. Aviva  promised  to send him a clearer  
explanation. Mr P was also sent a retirement  pack which included annuity quotes  for just 
under £4,000 a year.  The NPDA wasnt mentioned in these quotes.
In August  Mr P called Aviva again.  He wanted  to get a straight answer  on whether he would 
receive an annuity of around £4,000 per year or whether the NPDA  of £2,463.69 per year 
would be paid in addition to that. He was told on the phone he would get both, but Mr P 
wanted to get this in writing and the call handler  agreed to send him quotes covering the 
regular annuity  and the NPDA.
In September  Mr P called Aviva and explained  that the quotes he received still didnt 
mention the NDPA. Eventually Aviva  explained  to Mr P that the NPDA  was already included 
in the annuity quote of around £4,000.  They acknowledged that the wording on the annual  
statement was misleading and fed this back to the relevant  team. Aviva also apologised for 
giving Mr P conflicting information  over the phone. Aviva paid Mr P £200 compensation for 
the trouble caused.
Our investigator thought the offer made to Mr P was reasonable.  Mr P disagreed and so the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my decision  isnt going to be much  different to the investigators.  I know  this 
will be disappointing  for Mr P. Ill explain my reasons in more detail below.
I think there is no doubt here that Aviva  gave Mr P unclear and at times conflicting 
information about his pension and its disappointing  that Aviva  couldnt give Mr P a simple 
answer to his straight forward  question earlier. So I have sympathy for Mr Ps situation and 
the confusion  and frustration he experienced.
I understand that Mr P feels he has lost out on thousands of pounds of pension income. 
However, whilst  I appreciate he was hoping to receive the additional  NPDA  and its now very 
disappointing that he wont receive this extra money,  this was never income that he was 
entitled to. So it wouldnt be fair to ask Aviva to pay him the additional amount. 
Ref: DRN44669772This services approach  to compensation is to put customers as much  as possible in the 
position they would have  been in if the mistake hadnt occurred. 
If Mr P had been given  the correct information earlier,  he still would have started drawing 
benefits this year. And the annuity amount would have been what he is receiving now.  So 
Mr P is in the same position he would have been in if Avivas  responses had been clearer.
I understand that Mr P and his wife bought  a caravan and changed their car to one which  is 
more capable to tow a caravan. They say they did this on the expectation of a higher annuity  
income from Aviva and now they might not be able to afford this any longer. So they say 
Avivas confusing information caused  them financial loss.
Ive considered this carefully. However, Mr P bought the new car in May 2018. At this point 
he was still clarifying the annuity amount with Aviva and the fact he was still trying  to get a 
clear answer in August shows that he wasnt  relying  on any information he had been given 
up to that point. Even when he was told on the phone in August that he would be receiving 
the NDPA in addition to his regular pension income,  he insisted on getting this in writing as 
he didnt want to rely on verbal  information and he was still asking questions after he had 
bought the caravan. 
So when Mr P changed his car and bought the caravan he made this decision without  
knowing his future pension income. So on balance  I think its more  likely Mr P was planning 
to buy a caravan  that year either way. I understand its disappointing  that he now has less 
money than he was hoping to get, but I havent seen enough to make me think  he wouldnt 
have bought the caravan  or a more suitable  car to tow it if he had known his correct pension  
income. 
Having said that I appreciate  its possible  that Mr P only changed the car and bought a 
caravan (or a more  expensive model)  because  he trusted he would receive the higher 
annuity. However, as the information  given  to him was unclear and he obviously wasnt  
certain about what his income would be I think this wasnt a reasonable risk to take. And so I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Aviva to compensate Mr P for losses that could have been 
avoided by him.
Mr Ps retirement date was in August 2018.  He received all the necessary forms to draw  his 
benefits in April 2018, but only started drawing his annuity in November 2018. His retirement 
was delayed because  until September he still didnt have clear  information on the annuity  
amount and after that he was waiting for the outcome on his complaint. Eventually he 
couldnt wait any longer  and started taking  benefits in November.
I can understand why Mr P didnt draw his benefits  earlier than he did. I think if Aviva  had 
given him clear information  straight  away he would have returned the forms on time and 
started his annuity  from his retirement  date in August as planned.
So I think his annuity payments should be backdated to August 2018. 
Aviva have since shown  me that Mr P has already received backdated annuity payments 
from August after he complained about this separately. They  also paid him some interest on 
the delayed payments together  with another £150 compensation for having to chase  Aviva  
for information after his retirement date.
Ref: DRN44669773We usually would ask the interest  on the backdated  payments to be 8% simple per year,  so 
more than Aviva offered  in Mr Ps case.  However,  the £150 offered is more  than I would  
have recommended for the delays from August, so I think overall the compensation is 
reasonable. Mr P has confirmed hes happy with the resolution to this second aspect of his 
complaint. 
Aviva has acknowledged  their service to Mr P could have been much better and that the 
information provided on Mr Ps statements regarding the NDPA was misleading and fed this 
back to their relevant  department. Its important to note that our service isnt here to punish 
businesses for their mistakes, but make sure customers havent  lost out financially and are 
compensated for any trouble  and upset caused by a businesss incorrect actions. 
For the reasons  Ive explained I think Mr P is now back  in the position  he would have been in 
if Aviva  had given him clearer information from the start. He has received all his annuity  
payments from August  and based  on what Ive seen I dont  think he suffered  any financial 
losses or any that could  have reasonably  been  avoided 
I appreciate that Mr P had to chase Aviva on several occasions to get the information he 
needed and it surely would have been stressful not knowing what  his retirement income 
would be. 
But I think the £200 Aviva  offered him is reasonable compensation  for his troubles in these  
circumstances. And I think together with the backdated annuity  payments and an additional 
£150 in compensation for later service issues, I think Aviva  have treated Mr P fairly in 
dealing with his complaint. So I wont ask them to do anything  further.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4466977