K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that TSB Bank Plc didnt  set up direct debits properly and this resulted in 
her direct debits not being paid and late payment fees. She also complains that she couldnt 
transfer a balance on her TSB credit card to a different credit card provider because she was 
told her TSB credit card had been closed.
To settle  matters shed  like all adverse data recorded on her credit file removing and 
compensation for inconvenience and for the money shes lost. Shed also like TSB to clear 
the balance on her credit card.
background
Mrs D partially  switched  her current account  to TSB in early  September 2017. As part of the 
switch she asked TSB to switch her existing direct  debits to her new TSB account.  She says 
TSB didnt  set these  up properly. As a result  she says her direct debit payments havent 
been paid, shes  been charged late payment  fees and her credit rating has worsened. And 
this meant  a loan and two credit cards  she applied  for were  declined.
She also says she wasnt able to transfer  her credit card balance to a new provider offering 
zero per cent interest  because she was told by the new credit card provider that her TSB 
credit card account had been closed.
TSB didnt  uphold her complaint. It said itd completed the transfer  of her direct debits as 
shed asked. But it agreed to pay £100  compensation  for the distress and inconvenience 
caused and £50 to cover her expenses for having to visit TSB branches  and for TSBs delay 
in responding  to her complaint.
Unhappy with TSBs response Mrs D referred  her complaint to this service. Our adjudicator 
didnt recommend that her complaint should  be upheld. He looked at bank statements 
provided by TSB and he could see that the direct debits that left Mrs Ds account 
corresponded to the direct debits shed asked to be switched. So he thought TSB had 
successfully switched the direct debits as Mrs D had asked.
The adjudicator had seen confirmation from TSB that it hadnt closed Mrs Ds credit card 
account. So he didnt  think  TSB was at fault when Mrs D was unable  to transfer her credit 
card balance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im afraid I have no better 
news for Mrs D.
I realise Mrs D thinks this service is biased in favour  of banks but Id like to reassure her that 
Ive considered carefully the information  she and TSB have provided to reach  a fair 
outcome.
Im required  to make my decision  based  on the information Ive seen.  Unfortunately Mrs D 
has provided very little information to support her complaint.  For example, I havent  seen 
anything to show her direct debit payments werent  received or that shes been charged  late 
payment fees.
Ref: DRN41315632Ive looked at the list of direct debits provided  by Mrs Ds previous bankers to TSB. Ive also 
looked at bank statements provided by TSB.  The bank statements show  that new direct 
debits were set up and these correspond to the list of payees provided to TSB by Mrs Ds 
previous bank.
TSB has confirmed that all companies  were notified  of her new account  details. I have no 
reason to doubt TSB completed this because I can see from Mrs Ds statements  that the 
payments are shown  as debiting from her account.  And theres nothing on the statements to 
show the direct debit payments were returned unpaid.
Based on the information Ive seen I cant fairly say that TSB has made an error regarding 
the setting up of the new direct debits. And I havent seen anything to suggest that TSB was 
at fault when Mrs D was unable to complete a transfer of her credit card balance.  Thats  
because TSB provided information to this service  to show it didnt close  her credit card 
account.
I realise Mrs D says the new credit card provider told her it was unable to transfer her credit 
card balance because  her TSB credit card account  had been  closed. But I cant hold TSB 
liable for any incorrect  information  Mrs D may have been given by the new credit card 
provider. I can only look at whether TSB has done anything wrong here.
Finally I havent seen any information  to show that Mrs Ds credit score worsened as a result 
of the problems she experienced with TSB and neither have I seen any information  to show  
shes been declined  a loan and two credit cards as a result of her credit score  worsening due 
to the problems shes had with TSB.
It follows that I wont be upholding this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do uphold this compliant.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4131563