K821x#15complaint
Mrs B has complained about short-term loans granted to her by CashEuroNet  UK LLC 
trading as Pounds to Pocket. Mrs B says she couldnt afford  these loans and that 
Pounds to Pocket didnt take appropriate steps  to check whether she could afford them  
when she took them out. 
background
Pounds to Pocket agreed two short-term loans for Mrs B, the first in March  2013, and the 
second in July 2015. Each loan was initially  repayable  over 12 and 11 months  respectively.
Loan 1 was re-financed on three occasions. This is where she borrowed further funds, 
extending the term of the original agreement, agreeing a new repayment schedule. Ive set 
out a summary  of the lending below.
loan no. applicationprincipal 
amount  (£)no. of 
instalments  duehighest monthly 
repayment  due (£)
1 10/03/2013 650 12 99
1a (re-finance) 22/12/2013 475 7 146
1b (re-finance) 22/04/2014 500 12 129
1c (re-finance) 08/06/2014 250 12 156
2 22/07/2015 500 11 84
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mrs Bs complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld in part. He felt the checks Pounds  to Pocket  carried out on loan 1 were  
proportionate, but that the checks carried out from the first re-finance of loan 1 (1a) werent.
He thought that had Pounds to Pocket carried out proportionate checks  on loans  1a to 2, it 
wouldve likely concluded that loan 2 wouldve been  unaffordable for Mrs B, and would  
therefore not have agreed  to it. 
Pounds to Pocket disagreed with the findings,  and Mrs B raised no new arguments in 
response to the adjudicators assessment. So as no agreements been reached at this stage, 
the case has come to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision. As loans 1  1c no longer 
appear in dispute,  my decision  will focus on Pounds  to Pockets  decision to approve loan 2. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and   
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
Pounds to Pocket initially said that it did conduct appropriate and proportionate affordability
assessments, including validation of Mrs Bs income and expenses before funding  her 
second loan. It said that starting 1 March 2015, before Mrs B borrowed this loan, it had 
implemented an affordability assessment that was consistent with the FCA Handbook  and 
that was in place at the time it received authorisation by the FCA. It says this confirms its 
assessment was conducted properly and individually  for this application. 
My role however, is to look not only into the rules and regulations  set by the regulator at the 
time of borrowing but also the law, good industry practice and all the available evidence and 
Ref: DRN41355652arguments to help decide whether I think what the business has done  is right or not. And in 
this case I dont think Pounds  to Pocket was right to provide Mrs B with the second loan she 
borrowed.
This service has addressed this specific point by Pounds  to Pocket  in previous decisions, 
and I would remind Pound to Pocket at this point of the FCA guidance  on how complaints 
are to be dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular DISP 
1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures for complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Mrs Bs complaint and what both parties have 
said about this.
Pounds to Pocket needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mrs B could repay her loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mrs Bs income  and expenditure. With this in mind, 
in the early stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These would 
include where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion 
of their income 
the amount,  or amounts, due to be repaid are higher 
there is a larger number and/or frequency of loans 
the period  of time during which a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that there  are three  key questions  for me to consider in 
order to fairly and reasonably determine Mrs Bs complaint. These  questions  are:
Ref: DRN413556531.Did Pounds to Pocket, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy  itself that Mrs B would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, 
would those checks have shown that Mrs B would  have been  able to do so?
2.Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mrs Bs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or 
otherwise harmful?
3.Did Pounds to Pocket act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
1. Did Pounds to Pocket,  each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mrs B would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would those 
checks have shown  that Mrs B would  have been able to do so?
As loans  1  1c are no longer in dispute,  I havent considered the proportionality of the 
checks Pounds to Pocket carried out on these  loans as part of my assessment. And I 
havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks  for loan 2 either, because 
I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ill explain why.
2. Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall  pattern of 
lending increase Mrs Bs indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable  or otherwise harmful?
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Pounds to Pocket lending  history with Mrs B, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Pounds to Pocket should  reasonably  have seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Pounds to Pocket shouldve  
realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached at the 
time she applied  for loan 2. I say this because:
Loan 2 was provided within two months of settling loan 1. So Pounds  to Pocket  ought  
to have realised it was more likely than not Mrs B was having to borrow  further to 
cover the hole that repaying her previous  loan had left in her finances. And that 
Mrs Bs indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Loan 1 including the three re-finances (which  were intended to be used for short-term  
use) had run for a period of over two years. So it was unlikely Mrs B simply had a 
need for short-term  finance, and was instead  using the loans for a purpose other than 
intended
Mrs B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Pounds to Pocket. 
And she had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service  a debt to 
Pounds to Pocket over an extended period.
I think that Mrs B lost out because Pounds to Pocket continued to provide borrowing from 
loan 2 onwards  because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Bs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
Ref: DRN41355654the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mrs Bs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So Im upholding  Mrs Bs complaint about  loan 2. 
what Pounds to Pocket needs to do to put things right
refund  the interest and charges Mrs B paid on loan 2;
pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple  a year from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement*;
any information recorded about  loan 2 is adverse. So all entries about loan 2 should 
be removed from Mrs Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Pounds to Pocket to take off tax from this interest. 
Pounds to Pocket must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mrs Bs complaint  in part. 
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things  right as described  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4135565