K820x#14complaint
Mr K and Ms K say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) - mis-sold  them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr K and Ms K took out a PPI policy alongside their mortgage in 1998. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy and the policy was in Mr Ks sole name.   
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr K and Ms K disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr K and Ms Ks case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr K and Ms Ks complaint.
Lloyds should  have made it clear  to Mr K and Ms K that they had a choice in buying the PPI. 
Mr K and Ms K say they were told they had to take the policy to get the mortgage.  Lloyds 
has said Mr K and Ms K wouldve been aware  they had a choice about buying it. And its 
provided us with copies of the mortgage documents Mr K and Ms K completed  at the time. 
On the mortgage  application there  is a section headed MortgageSure (Lloyds  name for 
PPI). In this section it asks applicants to tick yes or no to take out the policy. The yes box 
has been ticked on Mr K and Ms K. The section below is heading Checking you are eligible 
for MortgageSure. In this section there are various questions  which  require yes/no answer 
to. Options have  been  selected  for the first customer on Mr K and Ms Ks form. This leads 
me to think  that there was a discussion  around  the policy and Mr K and Ms K has selected 
the level of cover which best suited their circumstances at the time.  And based  on what  I 
know about how Lloyds  sold policies like this at the time I think  the optional nature would 
have been made clear.  
So I think most likely that Lloyds made Mr K and Ms K aware that they had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and they chose to take it  although I can understand why they cant  
remember this now. 
Mr K and Ms K say they were pressured  and rushed into taking the PPI. But they havent 
been able to say what Lloyds said or did to make  them feel this way. Thats understandable  
given the time thats passed. I can accept  the advisor may have told them it was a good idea 
to take the policy.  But this isnt the same  as pressure. So overall  I havent seen enough to 
uphold the complaint only on what Mr K and Ms K have said.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr K and Ms K so it had to make  sure the policy  was right 
for them  especially Mr K as the policy was taken out in his sole name. From  what Ive 
seen, it seems to have been  suitable for them based on Mr Ks circumstances at the time. Ill 
explain why:
Ref: DRN49609402Mr K met the policys requirements so was eligible for it.
Mr K says he wouldve  received  sick pay benefits from his employer. In the event of a 
successful claim,  the PPI wouldve paid his share of the mortgage  repayments for up 
to 12 months if he was unable to work  due to being too unwell. It would  have also 
covered him if he became unemployed. The policy wouldve paid out alongside        
Mr Ks employee benefits. This would have meant he could have used any sick pay 
he got to pay for other essential  costs.  
Ive noted  Mr Ks comments about a medical  condition he had at the time. Looking  at 
what hes told us about his condition, I think its unlikely Mr K would have thought this 
would be the main reason he might have needed to claim  on the policy  in the future. 
And the policy would  have  covered Mr K for other  things.  So I dont think  Lloyds was 
wrong to recommend the policy was suitable for him.
It doesnt look like there was anything else about Mr Ks circumstances that wouldve 
made it difficult for him to claim. For example, he didnt have any unusual working 
patterns. 
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even  if it had, I 
think Mr K and Ms K would still have bought it. Mr K and Ms K were  taking on a large 
financial commitment secured against  their home.  So I think  they wouldve wanted the 
security of knowing Mr Ks mortgage repayments were covered if he was too sick to work  or 
became unemployed. And it doesnt look like the policy was unaffordable  for them.   
As well as making sure the PPI was right for them,  Lloyds shouldve  taken  reasonable steps 
to point out the main things the policy didnt cover to Mr K and Ms K. I dont know if Lloyds 
did point these things  out. But Ive explained  why I think the PPI was right for Mr K and Ms K. 
And I dont  think clearer information wouldve changed their decision. I think they still would  
have bought it. I say this for the same reasons I think the policy  was suitable for them. 
So taking everything into account, I dont think Mr K and Ms K have lost out as a result  of 
anything Lloyds mightve done  wrong. 
I know Mr K and Ms K feel strongly  and will be disappointed by this outcome. They  have put 
time and effort  into their complaint. And Ive thought about all the points theyve raised. But 
these points dont  change my decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr K and Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4960940