K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained to us that Southern  Pacific  Mortgage Limited (SPML) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  in November  2002.
background
SPML says it wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy. It says that the PPI was sold to 
Mr H by his broker, who had also arranged  the lending. 
In my provisional decision dated  21 December 2018, I explained why I didnt  consider  that 
SPML was responsible for the sale of PPI to Mr H. I set out an extract below:
Our adjudicator said it wasnt clear when the PPI was sold and thought  that because  there 
wasnt adequate  evidence demonstrating that an intermediary sold it, it followed  that SPML 
was most likely responsible for selling the cover. 
In short,  SPML says that whilst it may have provided a PPI policy  to Mr H it wasnt  
responsible for actually  selling the policy. 
I think its first important  to point out that, from what weve seen with other PPI complaints 
made against SPML, it wasnt SPMLs usual practice to sell PPI direct to its customers. 
Instead, it received  and processed applications for PPI that were  forwarded to it by an 
intermediary, such as a broker or financial adviser. 
It follows that in order  for me to make  a finding that it was responsible for the sale of Mr Hs 
PPI, Id need to be satisfied that Id seen  enough  evidence to think  its more likely than not 
that on this occasion, SPML had advised  Mr H to take out PPI or provided him with 
information so that he could make  an informed choice about  buying PPI. That hasnt been 
the case here. 
I understand that the mortgage  offer made  no mention of PPI. From that, its reasonable to 
infer that at the time of the offer, Mr H hadnt made a decision to buy PPI as part of the 
lending he was taking.  
Ive also seen that, after he took out his PPI, Mr H received  a letter  from SPML enclosing his 
insurance certificate and thanking for him for taking  out an SPML Mortgage  Payment  
Protection Plan.  Although that shows Mr H had bought a policy that was sold under the 
SPML brand,  it doesnt  automatically mean  it was SPML who sold Mr H the policy. And 
based on what I know, its unlikely.  
Ive also seen that the policy insurer has given  us screenshot  evidence to show the 
information it had been sent about  the sale. This records SPML and its representative as 
being connected with the PPI sale. But I dont consider thats  especially indicative that SPML 
sold the policy. I say that because  its likely that it had received the policy  application from 
SPML once  it had been passed to it by the intermediary who sold the PPI. 
Putting all this together, I currently havent seen  enough evidence  or information to satisfy 
me that a discussion took place between SPML and Mr H at the time he took out the PPI. 
But it does  seem to me that PPI was discussed between Mr H and an intermediary during 
the sale process. It follows that the intermediary would have most likely been providing 
Ref: DRN40879202information about the PPI to Mr H. That means if I were to consider the merits of the sale we 
would be looking at the intermediary having  sold it rather than SPML.
And whilst SPML wrote to Mr H enclosing the details of the policy,  I dont currently  think  
thats enough to demonstrate that SPML  had sold him the PPI. 
Having taken everything into account, I therefore dont currently  consider  SPML  is 
responsible for selling PPI to Mr H. I think its more likely the PPI was sold by an 
intermediary, such as a broker.
developments
Mr H told us hed received my provisional  decision. He was unhappy  with my finding given 
that he said he had a certificate from SPML  about his PPI. 
SPML said it had received my provisional decision.  It sent in some  further information about 
the sale of the mortgage and PPI, being a mortgage account summary, a copy of the 
mortgage offer and a PPI information  sheet. SPML said these show  no record  of PPI being 
sold by it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive reviewed the information Mr H has given us. Ive seen that he has previously sent us the 
PPI policy  document  which is headed  with SPMLs branding. It sets out the terms, benefits 
and exclusions of the policy and gives the details of the policy  provider  which is an insurer, 
rather than SPML. But it doesnt  contain any evidence or information to suggest that SPML  
had sold Mr H the policy. 
Ive also looked  through  the information  SPML sent us following my provisional decision and 
cant see anything to suggest that SPML was responsible for the selling Mr H the policy.
Given that the latest information Ive seen  from Mr H and SPML  doesnt  affect  the views I set 
out in my provisional  decision, I wont be changing  my findings
It therefore follows that I dont think SPML is responsible for the PPI sale and so I dont 
uphold this complaint against SPML.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im satisfied Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited isnt responsible for 
the sale of the PPI policy. And so I dont  up uphold Mr Hs complaint against Southern 
Pacific Mortgage Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4087920