K820x#14Complaint
This complaints about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit  
card in 1999. Mr N says American  Express Services Europe Limited (AmEx)  mis-sold  him 
the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Ns case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
When selling  the PPI, AmEx had to make it clear to Mr N that he had a choice about taking 
it. But Mr N says the PPI was added without his knowledge or consent.
AmEx has sent us a copy of Mr Ns signed application form for the credit card. This included 
a section on PPI with a box to tick if Mr N wanted  to take it out. The box was ticked. If Mr N 
didnt want to take the PPI, I think he could have left the box blank. And Mr N neednt  have  
signed the application form if he didnt  agree  with what it said.
So, I think AmEx did make it clear to Mr N that he had a choice about the PPI. And that he 
chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
I dont believe AmEx  recommended the PPI to Mr N. This means AmEx didnt have to check 
if the PPI was right for Mr N. But it did have to make  sure he got the information he needed 
to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information AmEx gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But, based on the policy terms and from what I know of his circumstances at the time,  
I dont think better information  would have changed his mind  about taking the PPI. Thats  
because: 
He was eligible  for the cover.  And it doesnt look like hed have been affected by any 
of the exclusions  to, or limits  on, the policy. 
Mr N was entitled to sick pay from his employer for a time. But he says he had no 
other means of making his card repayments  if he wasnt  working. The PPI benefits, 
on the other hand, would have been  paid on top of his sick pay and for up to 24 
months per disability claim. It covered him for unemployment too. So, I believe hed 
still have seen the PPI as being  useful for him if something went wrong. 
It also looks like hed have found the PPI to be affordable. And it was flexible in that 
Mr N could have cancelled it at any time,  at no extra cost,  if he decided  he longer 
wanted it.
Which means AmEx doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N. But AmEx  
will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr N because:
Ref: DRN44551952AmEx  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr N about  that. Because AmEx didnt tell Mr N, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, AmEx has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers fair 
in this case.
What the business needs  to do
AmEx has to pay back to Mr N any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done  so. AmEx should  also pay back  to Mr N 
any extra  interest  he paid because of that.
AmEx should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr N the difference  between  
what Mr N owes  and what he would have owed if the commission  and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. AmEx should also pay Mr N 8%* simple interest 
if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr N can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr N any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4455195