K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Saga Services Limited  didnt reduce  his motor insurance premium  
sufficiently when a claim changed from being classified as fault to no fault. 
background
Mr J insured his car with Saga,  his policy renewing in February each year.  In February  2017  
he renewed cover for a total annual premium  of £370.10. One claim  hit whilst parking, 
information only was recorded against  the policy as happening in November 2013. In 
January 2018,  Mr J received his renewal invitation  for the forthcoming  year.  Saga invited him 
to renew for an annual  premium of £425.48.  At the start of February, before the renewal  
date, Mr J changed vehicles and the premium  was adjusted to £401.68 by Saga  to reflect  
the change. Later that same day the new car was hit by a third party.  A claim was made. 
As the claim occurred prior to renewal, the premium was adjusted to take it into account. It 
increased to £653.58.  In June 2018, the claim status  was changed  to being non-fault and 
the annual premium decreased to £600.72. Mr J asked to remove the breakdown cover on 
the policy which had the effect of reducing  the premium on a pro-rata  basis by £89.02. Later 
the same  month a further  adjustment  resulted in the annual premium being  reduced to 
£450.30. 
Mr J complained to Saga.  He said he thought that once the status of the claim was changed, 
and liability  established,  his premium would be reduced by the amount itd been increased  
by. He said he felt it was wrong he was being  penalised by having to pay over £200 more  as 
a result of a claim that wasnt his fault. He said the premium only reduced by the amount it 
did because of the adjustments he made to cover. 
Saga looked  into Mr Js complaint but didnt  think itd done anything  wrong.  It said a number 
of factors were taken  into account when calculating  the premium and when changes 
occurred to them it affected the risk posed and the premium charged.  It said it hadnt done 
anything wrong  by taking a non-fault claim into account when calculating Mr Js annual 
premium. It also pointed  out that it had said in his renewal letter  than if he was able to find a 
cheaper quote for like-for-like cover, then it would beat it. As he hadnt, it didnt think  his 
complaint should  be upheld.  
Unhappy with Sagas decision, Mr J complained to this service. Our adjudicator  looked into 
his complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. So Mr J asked for his complaint to be 
referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr J, I dont think his complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Its important to understand that this service  doesnt normally  assess pricing methodology 
generally, such as considering whether  products represent good value for money. So we 
generally accept  that insurers  can charge what they feel they need  to in order  to cover  the 
risk of providing insurance so long as they act fairly. In simple terms, that means that they 
should apply their chosen pricing model consistently  between  their customers whilst 
ensuring that the customer has the information  they need to make an informed decision 
Ref: DRN48202492about taking the policy at the price offered. And that they have the flexibility to shop  around  
and change insurer if they wish. 
When calculating what premium to charge, insurers  will take numerous  different factors  into 
account  these include, but are not limited to, the policyholders postcode,  the age of the 
drivers, the number of fault claims and non-fault claims etc. And insurers  all assess  risk 
differently. What is high risk to one may not be to another.  They  will also use different data 
when assessing  the risk posed. But thats  not unfair. We wouldnt generally tell Saga (or any 
insurer) that it should use, or discount,  specific data. Thats  because  the risk is Sagas  to 
take on so it will decide how to assess it and will charge a price  accordingly. Each  year, 
Saga is entitled  to reassess its risk factors  when  setting  the price  of its policies. So prices  
can go up or down, depending on what it thinks the risks are that year for all of its 
customers. 
And in Mr Js case, thered been a claim which Saga considered  relevant when setting his 
premium. I understand  that the incident wasnt Mr Js fault. But that doesnt mean Saga has 
treated him unfairly by taking it into account when rating Mr Js policy and setting his 
premium. I can see that when the status  of the claim changed from fault to non-fault,  Saga 
reduced the premium.  I appreciate that Mr J thinks the reduction  shouldve been for the full 
amount his premium  had increased by when  the claim was notified.  But Im unable to agree 
with him.
Saga has sent us some information  to show how it calculated Mr Js premium. Im afraid I 
cant share that with Mr J because its confidential business sensitive information.  But Id like 
to reassure him that Ive checked it very carefully  and can see that Saga calculated  Mr Js 
premium correctly and in line with its own standard rating criteria. So whilst  I appreciate  that 
Mr J thinks he shouldve been  refunded the full amount his premium  had increased by as a 
result of the claim, having  looked at the information  provided, I dont think that Saga has 
done anything  wrong. Taking non-fault claims into account when assessing the risk 
presented isnt an unusual action for insurers to take. So I dont think that Saga has treated 
Mr J unfairly in any way. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4820249