K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited (MBFS) mis-sold  him a 
Personal Contract Plan (PCP) for a new car.
background
In March 2016 Mr A visited  a dealership  to discuss options for acquiring a new car. He says 
that he had been quoted figures  via the internet to take out a contract hire for a particular 
model of car and that he raised these costs with the salesperson. Mr A says the salesperson 
told him they could  get close to those figures  but Mr A would need to pay a larger deposit. 
Mr A also says the salesperson recommended he took out a PCP. 
Mr A agreed to enter  into a three year PCP and paid a deposit of £4741. He says he chose 
the PCP as the salesperson had told him that the agreement was more flexible and could be 
ended early and, that due to the size of the deposit, there would be value left in the car at 
the end of the agreement  that could then be put towards another  car.
Ref: DRN44118682Mr A says he was disappointed with the performance of the car and had thought  about  
ending the agreement early. He contacted MBFS in November 2018 and asked about 
voluntarily terminating  the contract. MBFS said that he had not yet reached the point where 
hed paid 50% of the total amount payable under the agreement (this is 50% of the amount 
borrowed together with the interest  costs  and fees) so he would need to make a payment of 
around £3,000  to be able to end the agreement.
Mr A says he decided to keep the car until the end of the agreement.  He returned the car in 
April 2019 and discovered that the value of the car had depreciated to a point where  there 
was no additional  equity left. This meant  there was nothing to put towards another  new car.
As Mr A had exceeded  the permitted annual  mileage  he incurred an excess mileage fee 
£1088.56. 
Mr A contacted MBFS and complained that the PCP had been mis-sold to him. MBFS 
provided Mr A with copies  of the General Finance Planning Review and the Customer 
Declaration. Mr A said he didnt recognise the signature on the declaration form and was 
concerned that these  documents  appeared to have been generated after hed signed the 
PCP agreement. 
MBFS didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said that as it wasnt  present at the time the 
discussions with the salesperson took place it had to rely on the documentation such  as the 
financial agreement.  It also said that due to the passage of time the staff who had dealt with 
Mr A at the dealership no longer worked there. It said the terms and conditions of the PCP 
were laid out in the financial agreement. This included the annual mileage limit and cost per 
mile should this be exceeded. And it also said that there was no evidence that anyone else 
other than Mr A had signed the Declaration  document.
Mr A was unhappy at MBFSs  view and complained to this service. He said he had put down 
a large deposit  and but has since seen in the General Finance Planning Review  document 
advice stating that PCPs werent  suitable for those providing large deposits. He says hed 
never seen  that document and if he had then he would have questioned why he was putting 
down a deposit of nearly  £5,000. He says his preference was always for a contract hire 
agreement.
Mr A also said that there was a fake signature on the Declaration document  which  showed  
the dealership  hadnt been transparent in its dealings.
Our investigator didnt  recommend Mr As complaint  should be upheld. She said that for the 
PCP to have been  mis-sold the dealership needed to have  made a statement  that was 
untrue about the agreement and she didnt think it had. 
She said that with a PCP the consumer  had a choice to either pay the balloon  payment at 
the end of the agreement,  and so own the car, or return it. This balloon payment is linked to 
the predicted future value of the car and is known as the guaranteed minimum future value.  
If the consumer decided not to keep the car but its value  had actually fallen below that of the 
guaranteed minimum  future value there wouldnt be anymore to pay, but if its value was 
greater then the consumer could use this equity to put towards another car. Our investigator 
said as there  was potential for there to be equity in the car at the end of the agreement  the 
salesperson wouldnt  be wrong in saying  that to Mr A.
Our investigator said looking at the two documents provided by MBFS which Mr A had 
disputed seeing,  the Declaration document  simply set out the extra  insurance policies 
Ref: DRN44118683recommended by the dealership to Mr A such as tyre insurance. Mr A hadnt taken any of 
these products. And although he didnt recognise the signature on it this may have been due 
to it being an electronic  signature rather than wet ink and so possibly wasnt in his usual 
style.
The General Finance Planning Review Document didnt require any signatures and was a 
summary of what had been discussed.
Finally our investigator said that taking into account the value  of the car she didnt think  the 
deposit provided by Mr A was large and so this didnt mean the PCP had been unsuitable for 
him.
Mr A disagreed with our investigators  view.  He said there was a huge difference between 
the figures for the contract hire and the PCP. He said he had taken at face value the false  
promise about the future worth of the car and that he wouldnt need to finance a further 
deposit on a new car. He said hed been promised greater flexibility  with returning the car 
under a PCP but when he had asked  to do so hed been told he had to pay a punitive  
amount.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says that in the past he had contracts for hire for new cars and that these worked  well 
for him. He says he obtained  a quote for another contract for hire a particular model of car 
before he approached the dealership. And that hed provided these  figures to the 
salesperson who told him that the dealership wouldnt be able to match  these figures unless 
he increased his deposit  and suggested he took out a PCP.  The dealership also said the 
model of car it would supply would be of a better  spec than the one Mr A had received 
quotes for.
Mr A says the only reason he didnt take out another contract of hire was because he was 
persuaded by the salesperson that the PCP would provide greater  flexibility  in that he would  
be able to change  cars at around the 28 month  stage of the agreement, and that at the end 
of the PCP agreement there would be sufficient equity in the car to use as a deposit on a 
new one. 
Due to the passage of time the staff that dealt with Mr A are no longer at the dealership but I 
think even if they were it would be unrealistic  to expect them to have a good recall  of what 
was said at the time. When  evidence is missing or contradictory then I have to decide what 
the most  likely thing to have happened  is. Ive been provided with the copies of the following  
documents; the PCP, the General Finance Planning Review and the Customer Declaration. 
Mr A strongly disputes having seen either the Review or Customer Declaration. He says the 
signature on the Customer Declaration isnt his and he couldnt  have attended  the dealership 
on the date it was signed as he had a hospital appointment. He says this fraud is evidence of 
bad faith by the dealership. 
Looking first at the Customer Declaration, while I appreciate that on the day it was signed by 
Mr A he was at a medical appointment for much  of the time I cant  reasonably say he 
couldnt have  signed this document  at some point. The difficulty is that it is an electronic 
Ref: DRN44118684signature so wouldnt  look like Mr As usual signature.  I also cant  see the advantage for the 
dealership in fabricating this document. It sets out a number of additional insurance policies 
recommended by the dealership none  of which Mr A took. 
The General  Finance  Planning Review Document doesnt require a signature  and there  is no 
space provided  for a customer to sign. This document  discusses the pros and cons of PCPs  
and of hire purchase  agreements. Mr A says that it is significant  that it didnt include hire 
contracts as these were  the agreements discussed  with the PCP. However, although I 
accept this information is missing there isnt a requirement that this document  is agreed 
between the parties.  It simply lists a standard set of advantages  and disadvantages.  I have 
to consider whether not seeing this document placed Mr A in an unfair and disadvantaged 
position.
Mr A says if hed seen this document he would  have been alerted to ask more  questions 
about the deposit because it was substantial in nature. But I disagree  with his view,  while  I 
accept it was larger than the deposit  hed been quoted  for the contract of hire on the internet 
it wasnt substantial in relation to the overall price of the car. It amounted  to around 15% of 
the cars  cost and I think most people would  say a substantial deposit would be a greater 
percentage than that.
Mr A says there were  two motivators that persuaded him to take the PCP. The first was the 
greater flexibility of the agreement. A PCP allows a car to be either  returned  or purchased  at 
the end of the agreement.  This flexibility isnt available with a for hire contract. Mr A also 
says he was told he could  change cars after about  28 months. Mr A says the dealership  did 
contact him about  this but because he was disappointed in the car he decided not to trade-
up. So I dont think I can reasonably say that the dealership didnt offer a chance to 
exchange the car early. 
Mr A decided to look at voluntarily terminating  the agreement and enquired  about the cost of 
ending the agreement. He says he was disappointed with the settlement figure he received. 
But looking  at the agreement this figure was in line with the terms and conditions  so I dont 
agree this was a punitive amount.
Looking at Mr As complaint about being  misled over the deposit I'd need to be satisfied  that the 
dealer probably told Mr A something that wasn't  true and that untrue statement on its own 
induced him to take out this PCP purchase  agreement. I think its likely the issue about  a 
deposit for the next car was discussed between Mr A and the salesperson  but I dont think  
its likely  they would  have  guaranteed the car would provide a deposit  for another car at the 
end of the agreement to Mr A. However,  its always possible that this could be the situation.
As set out by the investigator  a car acquired  under a PCP has a guaranteed minimum future 
value This is the estimated  worth of the car at the end of the agreement  and is the amount  
the consumer  would  have to pay to own it. If, however the consumer chose to hand the car 
back there would  be nothing more to pay even  if the cars value had depreciated more than 
expected. It is also entirely possible for the car to be worth more  than the minimum future 
value as a number of factors will affect the value of a used car. If the cars value is higher 
than the equity  can be used as a deposit towards another car.
So I dont  think the potential of having  a future  deposit for another car was misrepresented  to 
Mr A.
Ref: DRN44118685Mr A says that a hire contract  wouldve better suited his needs.  As he has had these 
agreements in the past I think its fair to assume he knew how they worked. I think its more  
likely than not that he was looking for an agreement with more flexibility  and I cant  
reasonably say the PCP wasnt suitable for Mr A. I think  its likely  that it was his 
disappointment in the car that led to a change in his plans. And for the reasons given above 
Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4411868