K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that HSBC  UK Bank plc mis-sold a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs W in 1994. The 
policy provided Mr and Mrs W with cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
I can see that Mr and Mrs W have put time and effort into their complaint, and would  like to 
reassure them that Ive thought about  everything  theyve  said,  even if I havent specifically 
addressed every point  theyve raised  in this final decision.
Mr and Mrs W say they were given the impression  they had to buy the PPI to get the 
mortgage they wanted, and that HSBC didnt give them a proper  choice. The difficulty  I have 
is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs W and HSBC  when the 
mortgage was arranged.
HSBC hasnt provided much information from the point of sale,  as these events
occurred over 20 years ago. This isnt surprising and its similar to some  other  cases Ive
seen. Im also mindful that exact  recollections  of what happened  can fade over time. 
Ive noted everything  that Mr and Mrs W have  said. But for me to decide that the adviser
didnt tell them the PPI was an optional  policy, Id have to be sure that this was more likely
than not.
This is difficult  given the lack of paperwork we have. Without any additional  evidence  to
support what Mr and Mrs W have  told me, it seems  to me that it couldve  been just as
likely that they knew  the policy was optional  and chose to take it out. 
So because of the very limited information available to me, Ive not been able to safely
conclude that HSBC didnt make the optional nature of the policy clear to Mr and Mrs W.
HSBC says it doesnt know if it recommended the policy  to Mr and Mrs W. If the bank had 
given advice, it would have had to make  sure the policy was suitable for them.  As Ive said,  
the sale paperwork is no longer available, so I dont have this to look at. But I dont  need  to 
make a finding on this point because,  even if I held HSBC  to the higher standard and said it 
Ref: DRN45238482did give advice, I dont  think  the policy was unsuitable based on what  Ive seen of Mr and 
Mrs Ws circumstances at the time.
I say this because  Mr and Mrs W werent  disadvantaged by any of the common limitations  or 
conditions on the cover. It appears  that Mr and Mrs W were in good health and in 
employment when  they applied for the policy.  Also, their circumstances meant  they were 
eligible for the policy.
Mr W says he would have received some work-related benefits if he couldnt work due to 
sickness or accident, and that he had a life policy  that wouldve covered the mortgage. But 
the policy would have paid out in addition to Mr Ws occupational benefits  and would do so, it 
seems, for longer.  Having  the policy in place would mean Mr and Mrs W could use Mr Ws 
work-related benefits  to pay for other  expenses.
In addition, Mr Ws life policy wouldve only paid out in the event of death,  whereas the PPI 
covered him for periods of sickness and disability.  
So I think Mr and Mrs W would have had some use for the policy despite their existing 
arrangements.
It doesnt appear that the cost of the policy was unaffordable. The monthly premiums were  
reasonable and were  similar to the cost of other mortgage PPI policies sold around the same 
time.
It might be that HSBC could have  explained  the policy more clearly. But from what Ive seen 
of the policy  and Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances,  I dont think better  information  would  have 
changed their decision  to take out the cover.
I therefore wont be upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4523848