K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that esure Insurance Limited provided a poor service  when he made a 
claim under his car insurance policy. 
background
Mr M made a claim to his insurer,  esure  in January 2018 as his car was damaged by debris 
falling from a vehicle  in front. 
While his car was being assessed for repair, Mr M was given a replacement  car. In April 
2018 esure told Mr M that it wasnt economical  to repair  his car and it settled his claim as a 
total loss by paying him the market value for his car. 
esure said it didnt cause delay, but it had failed to update  Mr M and it failed to deal with his 
complaint. So for this it paid him compensation  of £250.
Mr M asked  us to look at his complaint. He thought esure should compensate him for the 
length of time it took to decide his car was a total loss. He believed the recovery  agent 
caused damage by driving his car while it had no oil in it and this caused the delay in esures 
decision. Mr M didnt think it was reasonable for esure to take the hire car back  two weeks  
after it decided his car was a total loss. He said this didnt  give him enough time to buy a 
replacement car and he had to arrange  his own hire. Mr M wanted esure to cover the costs 
of the hire car at least. 
Our investigator thought esure had done enough  to put things right as it thought Mr Ms car 
was repairable   but after further checks it was found not to be. 
Mr M didnt  agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Our investigator has detailed the reasons why Mr Ms car took some time for repair  until 
esure decided  to declare it a write off. I dont intend  to go into the same level of detail in my 
decision. But in summary the debris from the other  vehicle damaged Mr Ms car by leaving a 
hole in the engine sump. esure had hoped the hole could  be repaired. But unfortunately it 
couldnt. Mr Ms car was initially repaired and road tested  and it was taken to a franchised 
dealership garage  too. But after the initial repairs, further checks  revealed that the engine  
would need replacing. It was these  costs that meant  it wasnt economical to repair  Mr Ms 
car. 
I dont think esure is responsible for any delay in trying to repair Mr Ms car. I know  Mr M 
believes the recovery agent caused damage to the engine.  But in any event, esure paid the 
most it would pay in the event of a claim which is a total loss settlement. So the outcome 
was the same for Mr M. 
Ref: DRN48998272Mr Ms policy says that a courtesy car isnt available if his car is declared a total loss. So I 
think esures decision to extend the time Mr M had use of a courtesy car by a further seven 
days after Mr M received the total loss settlement payment was a reasonable one. I 
therefore dont  think esure  is responsible for the costs Mr M paid for further  hire after this 
period. 
I think esure failed to update Mr M during the claim and this was unreasonable. And Mr M 
was wrongly advised that his car would be returned  to him in March  2018. So Mr M was 
inconvenienced as he waited in expecting his car to be delivered that day. 
esure accepted that it failed to update Mr M and failed to deal with his complaint when he 
first raised his concerns in March  2018. For this, esure paid Mr M £250  compensation. 
Overall I think  esure has done  enough to put things right. The compensation it paid Mr M is 
in line with similar awards we give for the inconvenience its poor service caused. So Im not 
asking it to do any more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4899827