K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Tesco Personal  Finance  PLC (Tesco Bank)  did not pay interest 
on their current  account and feel the terms and conditions are ambiguous. 
background
In 2017, Tesco Bank  informed  Mr M that the account he had previously would no longer be 
offered and so would be closed. A Personal Current Account was offered instead. The 
account switch  was carried out by post and online and completed in November 2017.
Mr M paid in £1,000  upon opening  the account  and set up three monthly direct debits, in 
order to qualify for the 3% interest  rate being  offered. This was a promotional offer,  coming 
to an end on 1 April 2019.
In April 2019, Mr M noticed that the account hadnt  received any interest. Tesco  Bank 
explained that he hadnt met the criteria, as hed only paid £600  into the account per month, 
instead of the £750  minimum. 
Mr M reviewed the literature and raised  a complaint with Tesco Bank. He stated the wording  
around how to qualify for the 3% interest was ambiguous and would like the matter to be 
rectified.
Tesco Bank stated  the terms and conditions were clear, as is the website. They  maintained 
that the criteria wasnt  met and so no interest would  be paid. It was also pointed out that the 
monthly statements  set out the criteria  as well.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs M brought this matter to us. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint and explained that the information booklet  
clearly sets out the criteria  needed to get the 3% interest. 
Mr and Mrs M disagree with this and so this has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main  body of the literature  stated:   
You can earn 3% AER interest on credit balances up to £3,000 until 1 April 2019.
Simply pay in at least £750 and pay at least 3 Direct Debits each  statement Month.
Taking this to mean a one-off payment of at least £750, Mr M did not maintain this amount 
monthly. Instead, after the initial  £1,000, he paid in £600 thereafter,  which  is how he ran his 
previous account.  Looking  at the website,  this also uses the same wording as the literature. 
Reviewing this specific wording, I can see why Mr M may have thought this meant a one-off 
payment of at least £750. 
However, this shouldnt be looked  at in isolation,  as the literature goes on to say:
Ref: DRN40391412To earn interest, each  statement month you must pay in at least £750  and have at least  
three direct debits paid from your account.
This wording differs slightly to the wording in the main  body  of the literature  but makes the 
intended meaning much clearer. It should also be noted that this clarification is further down 
the same  page  as the main text. Its not buried within  small print, nor is it on a different page. 
Mr and Mrs M also received monthly  statements, which clearly set out the criteria as being at 
least £750 paid into the account each month  plus the direct debits each month.  
Taken as a whole, I think it is sufficiently  clear that to qualify for the promotional rate, at least  
£750 should be paid into the account  each month.
I am therefore persuaded that Tesco Bank  need  not do anything further in this instance. I 
appreciate this will be a disappointing outcome to Mr and Mrs M, however I must  be fair to 
both parties. The clear intention of Tesco  Bank, alongside the opportunity Mr and Mrs M had 
to read the specific requirements, both before the switch  and each month on their 
statements, is compelling.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2020.
Chantelle Sayles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4039141