K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage in July 1992.  This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken 
out at the same time alongside their mortgage.  The policy offered protection  against  
accident, sickness and unemployment and it couldve  paid out for up to 24 months  per 
successful claim. 
Neither Nationwide nor Mr and Mrs P can now say how they were  sold the mortgage or the 
PPI and theres no paperwork from the sale to indicate how this mightve happened. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Given the limited information available, our adjudicator  
felt it was reasonable to assume that the policy  had covered both Mr P and Mrs P jointly. 
But, as Mr P was in temporary employment  when the PPI was sold,  he wouldnt have been 
eligible for the policy  so this meant  he couldnt have claimed under it. For these reasons, 
our adjudicators view was that Nationwide had mis-sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion.  It mainly  said that it wasnt clear  why 
wed assumed that the policy was taken out by both Mr and Mrs P. Nationwide suggested  
that it was more likely that the policy wouldve just been taken out by Mrs P if Mr P wasnt 
eligible for it. Mr P has also now been able to provide some  further  information  about his 
employment status during 1992  when the mortgage  and policy started.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Ive looked afresh at this case,  taking into account  all the comments that have been  made  in 
response to the adjudicators view and the information Mr P has provided  from a government 
website.
Based on what Ive seen  so far, Im thinking about not upholding Mr and Mrs Ps mis-sale 
complaint. Ill explain  why I say this.
Theres only limited information  now available from when  Mr and Mrs P took out this 
mortgage and the PPI. And both Mr and Mrs P and Nationwide have said different things at 
different times about whether Mr P was in employment when the PPI was sold. Confusion  
about this is unsurprising after so long. And I can understand why the adjudicator felt it was 
reasonable to assume that Mr and Mrs P had joint cover under the policy,  given this was a 
joint mortgage and there was nothing to show that they had requested the cover to be in 
Mrs Ps name only.
Ref: DRN47637152But Mr P has now been able to provide information  from a government website which  
appears to show that he was unemployed for at least 9 weeks during 1992. Mr P says this 
period covers the 9 weeks from the end of his temporary contract in June to the start of his 
full time contract with the same employer in September. This information is also consistent  
with what Mr P originally told us - he said when  he first complained to us that he was 
unemployed at the time PPI was sold. And it fits with what  I understand would be a normal 
pattern of work for someone in Mr Ps profession.
So, despite  the confusion about Mr Ps employment  status during this period,  I think  on 
balance, that he probably was unemployed  in July 1992 when Mr and Mrs P took out their 
mortgage.
Nationwide shouldve given  Mr and Mrs P enough clear information about  the policy so they 
could decide if they wanted to take advantage of the benefits the policy could offer them. 
I cant be sure exactly how,  or if, Nationwide explained PPI to Mr and Mrs P. 
I think its likely that as Mr P wasnt working, Nationwide wouldve probably  been aware  that 
he wasnt eligible for the PPI. I dont  know  what,  if anything, Nationwide  said to Mr and Mrs P 
about the eligibility requirements. But, Ive no reason to think it wouldnt have followed its 
usual sales process. Nationwide says that at the time of the application, it wouldve given 
Mr and Mrs P a policy leaflet which explained  how it worked, the cover  levels  that it provided, 
and the associated costs, along  with the main  exclusions and restrictions of the policy.  
Nationwide said it was made clear that the PPI was free for 12 months  on the mortgage 
product that it offered  Mr and Mrs P if they wanted to benefit from the 1% discounted rate for 
a year.
So, on balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs P wouldve been aware from looking at the 
paperwork that only Mrs P was eligible to apply. The policy document clearly  says that 
applicants must be in full time permanent employment. They  wouldve been  able to see that 
this didnt fit Mr Ps circumstances as hed been  on a temporary contract and he wasnt 
actually working over the summer. 
So I think its fair and reasonable to assess this complaint  on the basis that the policy  
probably wouldnt have  been taken out by Mr P and it was only taken out in Mrs Ps name.
Looking at what shes told us about her situation,  Mrs P was eligible for the policy  given her 
circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions  that applied.
Given their circumstances,  especially  taking  into account that the policy  was free for the first 
12 months, I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs P wouldnt have wanted to take advantage of the 
benefits PPI offered them. Having PPI wouldve meant Mr and Mrs P could  be sure theyd 
always be able to keep  up the monthly repayments  in order to protect  their home.  I think that 
wouldve been an important consideration at the time  even if theyve now forgotten this, 
given the uncertainties of Mr Ps employment  situation up until he gained  permanent work  in 
September 1992. 
The policy covered Mrs P for accident,  sickness and unemployment and it wouldve  paid out 
for up to 24 months per claim if she was unable to work  which  is longer than the period she 
wouldve received  sick pay from her employer. 
Ref: DRN47637153I dont know if Mrs P wouldve  always  had savings she wouldve been able to rely on if shed 
needed to make a claim. And the policy provided cover  for longer than its likely the amount 
of savings Mrs P has mentioned wouldve lasted if shed had to use these to pay bills and 
other expenses if she wasnt working.
Relying on other  people to help out in the event of money problems  isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
So I think the policy couldve been useful to Mr and Mrs P as it wouldve provided a 
worthwhile benefit if Mrs P had made a successful claim.
Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a number of 
years. Their home  wouldve  been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date.  
Under the policy repeat claims were possible.  This means the policy provided long term and 
dependable protection for the mortgage.  So, taking  into account  everything theyve told us 
about their financial  circumstances,  I think the policy still couldve been useful to 
Mr and Mrs P.    
Its possible  some of the information  Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  There were  some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look 
as if that affected  Mrs P. For this reason, I dont think its likely that knowing more about  what  
the policy didnt  cover wouldve put Mr and Mrs P off taking out the cover  for Mrs P.   
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs P at the outset. But they couldve 
cancelled the PPI if they hadnt wanted to start paying to keep it running at the end of the 
free period.  As things  stand at the moment,  overall I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs P wouldve 
made a different decision about whether to take out PPI if better  information  had been 
provided.
On balance I think they still wouldve taken  out the policy to cover Mrs P. This means I dont 
currently think Mr and Mrs P lost out as a result of any shortcomings  there  may have  been  in 
the way Nationwide sold this PPI. So Im not planning to tell Nationwide  to do anything to put 
things right.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr and Mrs P have  sent in some  further  information  about their circumstances when they 
took out the PPI. They say that as they were  both responsible for the mortgage the payment 
protection policy would have been set up to cover  both of them.  So they feel that Mr P was 
sold PPI as well  despite being  unemployed at the time.
Nationwide Building  Society has made no further comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ref: DRN47637154Ive taken carefully into account  everything thats  been said in response to my provisional 
decision. I dont  think it follows that just because  Mr and Mrs P were both liable for their joint 
mortgage that they both had PPI as it seems clear that Mr P wasnt  eligible for the policy  at 
the time.  So, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN4763715