K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited settled  his motor insurance claim.
Background
I sent my provisional decision on 5 March 2020  saying that I didnt intend to uphold  this 
complaint. An extract is below.
Background
Mr B had a car insurance policy underwritten by Aviva.  In February  2018,  he was involved in
a road traffic accident. Mr B explained that he was stationary at traffic lights when a third 
party vehicle hit his car when it tried to change lanes. Mr B reported this to Aviva and said
the third party  was at fault.
When Aviva  contacted the third partys insurer, it responded to say the third party had a
different version  of events and said both vehicles  were  moving,  and it was Mr B that moved
lanes. Aviva settled the insurance claim on a 50/50 basis due to the lack of witness and
CCTV evidence. It explained it did this because there was nothing to suggest  one version of
events carried more  weight than the other. So, it said a court would be unlikely to decide in
Mr Bs favour.
Mr B complained that a decision to settle  was reached without informing him. He also
explained he was in the process of getting an independent engineers report to submit as
evidence. Aviva apologised  for settling before  this point and sent Mr B a cheque for £175
compensation that was accepted. It also told Mr B it would consider  any report  he sent it to
see whether it would change the decision to settle on a 50/50 split liability basis.
Aviva considered the engineers report Mr B sent but decided it wasnt  enough to show  that
Mr B wasnt  at all responsible for the accident.  So, it didnt change the way it recorded the
claim and wouldnt reinstate Mr Bs no claims discount. Mr B then complained to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint. He explained our role is not to determine
who is at fault for an accident, but to decide whether the insurer  has considered  the claim
fairly. He explained the report was considered by Aviva, and its engineer explained why it
wouldnt change the settlement outcome. So, he felt Aviva had acted fairly in assessing  the
claim.
Mr B disagreed. He felt Aviva hadnt  acted fairly  when considering  the report. He asked for
an ombudsmans decision.
Since the case has been passed to me Aviva has sent us additional information  to consider,
specifically around  the conversations  it had with Mr Bs legal  representatives.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold
this complaint.
From what  I understand the main issue in dispute  is how Aviva has settled this claim. It isnt
my role to decide who was at fault in this accident, that is an issue better  suited to a court  of
law. My role here is to look at whether Aviva was reasonable when it reached its decision to
Ref: DRN43185822settle the claim in the way it did.
I understand Mr Bs strength of feeling  in this complaint. He is very sure that the third party is
at fault for the accident. And I can see he instructed an independent engineer  to assess  the
damage to his car. So, I can appreciate  how upset  he must feel that Aviva has settled his
claim on a 50/50 split liability basis. Ive considered whether Aviva has acted reasonably
when reaching  this decision and I think that it has. Ill explain why.
Mr Bs policy  says:
We shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any
claim.
What this means is that once a claim is made, its Avivas right to decide how to settle that
claim. But Id expect it to carry  out a reasonable investigation to decide how to settle  a claim.
In this case I can see Aviva contacted the third partys insurer to say Mr B wasnt at fault for
the accident. At this point there wasnt any CCTV or witnesses to the accident.  The third
partys insurer  then responded  to give a different version of events which led to Aviva
offering to settle  on a 50/50  basis. Aviva  confirmed there was no other  evidence,  so I think it
was reasonable  for it to decide to settle  the claim on the basis  it did.
Mr B explained he was getting an independent engineer to assess  the damage to his car 
to show his version of events was the right one. And that he was making a claim for
uninsured losses  through  his legal representatives.  Aviva explained it would consider this
evidence, and if the report showed the car was stationary at the time of the accident, it would
consider its position  about how the claim was settled. But I can also see Aviva explained that
Mr Bs pictures of the damage to his car wouldnt be used as evidence to show he wasnt at
fault. When Mr B submitted his report (which was based on the pictures of the damage), I
can see that Aviva sent it to its technical  engineer to consider. The technical engineer didnt
believe the report would lead a court to reach a different conclusion on liability.  Aviva
explained the report left some  doubt and didnt conclusively prove that Mr B wasnt  at fault.
So, it didnt change the way it settled the claim.
Ive noted that Aviva  settled the claim on a 50/50  basis without informing Mr B at first, and I
couldnt see that it linked in with Mr Bs legal representatives beforehand either. So, Ive
considered whether Mr Bs claim for uninsured  losses has been  prejudiced  by this. I dont
think that it has.
Aviva confirmed it had conversations with Mr Bs legal representatives after the claim was
settled. During these conversations there  were  discussions around the report submitted by
Mr B. Mr Bs legal representatives  agreed  with Aviva  that the report  wouldnt increase his
chances of a court saying he wasnt liable for the accident. So, I dont think  Avivas  decision
to settle this claim on a 50/50 basis has affected his chances of receiving more through legal
proceedings.
As I said above its not my role to determine  liability - thats for a court of law to decide. My
role is to determine whether Aviva dealt with Mr B fairly and reasonably,  based on the
information it had at the time. I appreciate Mr Bs engineer  feels  that Mr B wasnt  at fault for
the accident but when  it comes to the issue of liability thats not something we expect  an
engineer to determine or advise on. Thats something we expect a lawyer/legal
representative to comment  on as they are the expert when it comes to legal matters. So, I
dont consider Mr Bs engineers report or Avivas engineers comments to carry much weight
Ref: DRN43185823when it comes to considering who was at fault for the accident. I place more  weight on
Avivas discussion regarding the issue of liability with Mr Bs legal representatives who also
felt that a 50/50 settlement was the most likely outcome. As far as Im aware there  is no
conflicting legal advice and for this reason I think Avivas decision to settle the matter  on a
50/50 basis hasnt  put Mr B in a worse position  than he wouldve otherwise been in. Because
of this, Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
Aviva has said it shouldve  contacted Mr Bs legal representatives about liability  before
accepting to settle the claim on a 50/50  basis. It also said it should have managed Mr Bs
expectations and allowed  him to submit  his evidence before it reached  its liability decision. It
paid Mr B £175 to compensate for this and I think this is fair. Ive already addressed  why I
dont think Mr B has been prejudiced by Avivas actions. So, I think the compensation is fair
to address the frustration caused  by finding out the claim  had been  settled  before  Mr B had
submitted his report.
Aviva responded to say it accepted my provisional  decision. Mr B acknowledged he had 
received the provisional decision but didnt provide any further comments.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional comments Ive reached the same decision as 
set out in my provisional decision (above) for the same reasons. So Im not upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4318582