K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained MoneyGram  International Limited, trading as MoneyGram,  wont  
refund £500 which  was released to someone who wasnt the proper recipient.
background
On 21 November 2017 Mr A went to a Post Office to use their MoneyGram services. At 
09:52 he authorised the sending of £500 to a friend. He was given an 8-digit  code to give to 
his friend  to allow him to pick up the money. When his friend  went  to collect the money,  itd 
already been picked  up at a Post Office in Hatfield.
Mr A complained to MoneyGram. They werent  prepared to refund Mr A as the person  
picking up the money  had given the right code and had used ID. Mr A brought his complaint 
to the ombudsman service.
Our adjudicator considered all the evidence,  including the ID MoneyGram accepted  to pay 
out £500 to someone that wasnt the proper recipient. It seemed clear this was fake passport 
ID from an EU country. Coincidentally he knew of another case  within the ombudsman 
service of a very similar nature. This money had also been  picked up by someone  at a Post 
Office in Hatfield  using fake ID from an EU country.
He asked MoneyGram to refund £500  to Mr A along with 8% simple interest from 
21 November 2017 to the date of settlement.  
MoneyGram didnt agree  with this outcome and asked an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. On being allocated this complaint I contacted MoneyGram to ask them  if theyd 
now refund  the money to Mr A as I agreed with the overall outcome. I received no response 
at all.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached roughly the 
same conclusion as our adjudicator. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks and financial institutions  to 
refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply   about whether the customer had contributed to what had 
happened but nothing that Ive seen would have  an impact on how Im considering this case. 
So when we look at whether a business  has acted fairly in rejecting someones  fraud  
complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer  made  the transactions  
themselves or allowed  them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank 
to refund them.
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence.  The evidence  here is clear:
Mr A made an instruction to send money  at a Post Office and received an 8-digit 
code;
Mr A told us he gave  the code to his friend;
Mr As friend didnt live or work  close to where  the funds were collected;
Ref: DRN47697202Fake ID was used  to collect  the £500.  The date of birth of the recipient doesnt match 
Mr As friend; 
MoneyGram doesnt require its agents to check the validity  of the ID so accepts that 
it may have accepted  fake ID; and
A further  incidence of money being  paid out in the same  geographical area under 
very similar circumstances suggests MoneyGram transactions were  being targeted 
by fraudsters.
Im satisfied MoneyGram allowed £500  to be paid out to a fraudster and therefore didnt fulfil 
Mr As instruction. I appreciate theyre unable to check all different types  of ID they accept 
but having made the business  decision  to accept ID in this way, this can be the 
consequence.
I cant explain how the fake recipient knew the 8-digit code  to allow  them to pick up the 
money but I have suggested to MoneyGram this could be something they need to look at 
further.
This case has been open for a long time and MoneyGram has been  given plenty of 
opportunity to sort things out and do the right thing. They havent done so. This has added  
unnecessarily to the delays Mr A has suffered. I feel MoneyGram should pay him £100 for 
the inconvenience hes had.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  MoneyGram International Limited, 
trading as MoneyGram, to:
Refund £550 to Mr A for the payment they paid out incorrectly;
Add 8% simple interest to that amount from 21 November  2017 to the date of 
settlement; and
Pay £100 to Mr A for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4769720