K820x#14complaint
R, a limited company,  complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed its business 
accounts. R is represented by its directors, who Ill refer to as Mrs P and Mr P. Mrs P asks 
for an explanation for the account closure,  an apology  for the way theyve been treated and 
interest on the overdraft  debt to be waived. Mr and Mrs P would like reassurance that their 
personal credit files arent affected and hard copy statements for Rs account in May 2019. 
background
In March 2019 R received a notice from Barclays about the closure of its business accounts. 
Mrs P and Mr P are upset  that no reason was given, despite  them  being customers for some 
years. They  also say that Barclays wouldnt  allow them  to repay  Rs overdraft. It continued to 
apply interest and fees and reported  adverse information to the credit reference agencies.
Mr and Mrs P say customers paid money into Rs business account after it was closed, 
which they cant now access. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said Barclays 
was entitled to close the accounts by giving notice.  The letters said that any debt had to be 
repaid. Our investigator said Barclays could have been clearer  that any money paid into the 
business account after closure would  be applied towards the outstanding debt, but it wasnt  
unreasonable for it to use the funds  for this.
The investigator said it was fair that Barclays said it wont pursue Mrs P and Mr P for the 
overdraft debt, but it is required to report it to the credit reference agencies. Mrs P and Mr P 
can still repay the debt,  if they want to. 
R didnt agree. Mrs P says its unfair  that Barclays wont enter  into a repayment plan for the 
debt. While they could  settle the debt from their own funds they prefer to pay it from Rs 
business income over a period of time.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the account closure
The terms and conditions  of Rs business  accounts say Barclays  can close  the accounts  by 
giving at least two months  notice.  It sent notice to R in March 2019  that the accounts would 
close on 13 May 2019. The notice said R should make  other  banking  arrangements  and 
repay any monies owed.  It also said it should contact anyone making payments into the 
accounts and provide  its new banking details.
As Barclays gave the required  notice, I think  it was entitled to close  Rs accounts.  It didnt 
have to give a reason,  although it has since said that it was concerned  about the overdraft 
on the business account. 
Ref: DRN47005662cancelling direct debits  and other payments
Mrs P said it was unfair for Barclays to cancel direct  debits,  standing orders  and their debit 
cards on 13 May 2019 without notice. But Barclays had given  notice that the accounts would 
close on 13 May. 
Mrs P says there was a delay in opening  Rs new account with another bank. Mrs P says 
they couldnt see the point  in asking Barclays to keep Rs business account  open for a few 
more days, given its poor response to previous contacts. I appreciate that having direct 
debits cancelled was inconvenient. But Barclays had given notice of the account closure. I 
dont think its reasonable to say it made  an error when it didnt keep the account open a few 
more days so that direct debits could be switched to a new account, especially when it 
hadnt been told about the delays opening  Rs new account.
Once the business account closed, Mr and Mrs P no longer had access to it. I understand 
theyre frustrated that payments still went into the account. I would note though that the 
closure notice said they should contact anyone making payments into the account  with their 
new banking  details.  I dont think Barclays is responsible if this didnt happen.  
The account  closed  with an overdraft which remains unpaid. In the circumstances, I dont 
think its reasonable for me to require Barclays to pay any amounts it receives into the 
account to R. 
I can see though  that Rs directors would need to check that customers  have made a 
payment. Barclays provided statements to us which show  payments into the account from 
April 2019. Mr and Mrs P should let us or Barclays know if they need a copy  of this. 
the overdraft debt
R had an overdraft which remained unpaid when  its business account  closed on 13 May 
2019. Mr P contacted  Barclays on 22 May 2019,  after receiving a letter about the debt. 
Mr P says Barclays  told him he couldnt now repay  the debt. Unfortunately, no recording of 
this call is available. However,  Barclays considered  its position and the following day it told 
Mr B it would discuss a plan to repay the debt within 12 months. If this wasnt possible, it 
would send a demand.  If the debt remained  unpaid it would be sent to bad debt write off. R 
would remain liable  for the debt,  but it wouldnt pursue it. Barclays confirmed this in writing. 
So if Mr P wasnt  given  correct information  when he first called, this was provided the next 
day. 
It seems  R didnt  have the means  to repay the debt immediately. Mr Ps proposal of £100 
per month didnt meet Barclays requirement that the debt was repaid within 12 months.
Barclays sent a final demand at the end of May 2019. This said information would be 
reported to credit reference agencies. It also sent demands to Mr P and Mrs P for payment 
under their personal  guarantees.
Mr and Mrs P say they want to settle the debt.  If so, and they have  the funds available,  they 
should contact  Barclays to make payment or agree a repayment plan. I should make  it clear 
that its for Barclays to consider fairly any payment proposal Mr and Mrs P put forward. I 
dont think its reasonable to say that it must accept whatever Mr and Mrs P offer. 
Ref: DRN47005663The closure notice  said debts should be repaid before the accounts closed. Barclays said it 
will accept  a proposal that repays  the debt within 12 months: that was in May 2019. The debt 
remains unpaid and R remains  liable for it. R hasnt put forward payment proposals that are 
satisfactory to Barclays. I dont think, in the circumstances, its reasonable to require  
Barclays to waive interest  and charges. 
Barclays has said it will report information about  the account to the credit  reference 
agencies. I dont think this is unreasonable. Its said it wont record  information about  the 
account on Mr and Mrs Ps credit file.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4700566