K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy because Ageas Insurance Limited has declined a claim under  his legal 
expenses insurance  policy.
All references to Ageas  include its claims handlers.
background
In July 2017 Mr A asked  Ageas to cover his legal  expenses for bringing  a claim against a 
third party. The claim was about the installation  of an electric substation near his home in 
August 2016,  which Mr A said caused  personal  injury to him and his wife over time as a 
result of electric magnetic field radiation.
Ageas said it wouldnt  cover the claim because it didnt relate to damage caused  to Mr As 
property. It also said the policy  didnt provide cover for personal injury. In November  2017  
Mr A asked Ageas to reassess the claim.  Ageas declined. In addition to the other reasons it 
had cited, it said the claim related to buildings  or land other than Mr As home, which  was 
specifically excluded under the policy.
Unhappy with Ageas response,  Mr A referred the matter to this service.  Our investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said Ageas acted fairly because the policy 
terms stated the act or nuisance complained of had to cause damage to Mr As property or 
home. She said Mr A didnt make a claim for damage to his property so there  was no cover  
available under the policy.
Mr A didnt agree. He said the substation caused  personal injury and damage to his property 
through vibration and noise. He also said cracks  could be seen outside his property next to 
the substation.  He provided photographs showing the damage he said had been  caused. 
The investigator considered this information and noted that Mr A hadnt previously provided 
this information  to Ageas. As a consequence she said she couldnt  consider this further 
information as Ageas themselves hadnt considered it. Based on the original complaint she 
said her answer remained the same  but if Mr A was unhappy with Ageas actions after his 
complaint to us had been made, he should  raise a new complaint.
Ageas isnt currently prepared to accept Mr As claim. In May 2019 it provided  a number of 
reasons for this. In light of this and the investigators view, Mr A has asked for an 
ombudsman to look at this complaint. So the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr A wanted to discuss this 
complaint with me before I reached my decision  but I didnt  think this was necessary. Both 
parties have provided  me with enough information  to consider the complaint.  Having done 
so, Ive decided  not to uphold it. Ill explain why
In the claim form Mr A completed in July 2017, he said he needed  to take legal  action 
becauseit [the substation] is health hazardous and too close  to [his] bedroom.
Ref: DRN41487332Mr As policy  doesnt provide any cover for personal injury. Section 2 of the policy  covers  
domestic property protection for disputes  arising out of a) A third party's alleged or actual 
negligent act or omission, nuisance, trespass or criminal damage relating to an insured 
person's material property  which causes or could  cause physical damage or pecuniary  
loss
This means  that cover  might have  been  available if a third partys actions caused or could 
cause physical damage or monetary loss in relation to Mr As property. But this wasnt the 
claim Mr A was making  in July 2017. Rather  he was claiming the substation was a hazard to 
his health and was too close to his property. So I think that Ageas original decision to 
decline the claim was reasonable based  on the information it was provided  with at the time.
In November 2017 Mr A said he felt the substation was causing him and his wife personal 
injury, and damage to his property. In an email he told Ageas excessive amount of noise  
together with low frequency vibration damaging the property and noise is disturbing our life 
so this is my dispute  
Ageas said the policy excluded  any claims in respect any buildings or land other than Mr As 
home. As the substation  wasnt on Mr As land, Ageas said the policy wouldnt cover his 
claim. 
I know that Mr A mentioned there  was damage to his property because of vibrations from the 
substation but he didnt  provide Ageas with any evidence to support this claim at all in 
November 2017.  His submissions were more in relation to the nuisance  he felt the 
substation was causing. If Mr A had provided some evidence of damage  or potential damage 
at that time, I might have been  inclined  to direct Ageas to consider his claim further. Thats 
because I dont think the exclusion they cited was applicable in this case.  The claim Mr A 
wished to make was in relation to his home.  And I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
suggest that claims arising  from other  land are excluded if theyre causing damage to Mr As 
home. And its not the way in which wed interpret that term. But because Mr A didnt provide 
Ageas with anything  to support a damage or potential damage  to property claim, I dont think  
Ageas were  wrong  to turn down the claim.  So I dont think  they should do anything  more. 
 
Mr A has provided some  photographs to our investigator which he says supports his claim 
for damage.  Hes also put these to Ageas to consider. Ageas has since  declined the claim 
again for a number of reasons. Im not deciding whether that was reasonable in this decision 
because the issue  wasnt raised with Ageas before this complaint was brought  to us. As our 
investigator said, Mr A will need  to make a separate complaint in respect  of this if hed like 
us to consider  it. 
Ref: DRN41487333my final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint against  Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4148733