K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Miss M are unhappy with the compensation offered by London and Country  
Mortgages Ltd (L&C) when it submitted their mortgage application for the wrong amount. 
background
L&C arranged a mortgage  for Mr S and Miss M around June 2018. The mortgage was for a 
five year fixed term at a rate of 2.09% for a loan amount  of £184,449 with Lender  H. This 
loan amount included a £999 booking fee (which Mr S and Miss M were hoping  to pay off 
shortly after completion).  
Mr S and Miss Ms property purchase  fell through in July. In September, Mr S and Miss M 
approached L&C for advice on arranging a mortgage as theyd found  another  property. The 
new property required more borrowing, a total of £187,000.  
L&C arranged Mr S and Miss Ms mortgage  application with Lender H again. Mr S and Miss 
M were  told that the mortgage  was being offered on the same  terms as previously offered by 
Lender H. During Mr S and Miss Ms solicitors  enquiries, they were told that the mortgage 
amount being  offered by Lender H was £184,449, not £187,000 which was needed for the 
property purchase.  
Mr S and Miss M contacted L&C. L&C told them that it had incorrectly  processed their loan 
application. It explained that the loan application  had been submitted based on a mortgage 
amount of £184,499. 
L&C recognised its error and told Lender H about what had happened. Lender H said that 
the mortgage product offered in June was no longer available. It explained it wouldnt be 
able to offer the same terms on the higher mortgage  requested for £187,000. Lender  H said 
the terms it wouldve  offered had the application  been correctly submitted in September for 
£187,000 wouldve been a five year fixed term at a rate of 2.14%. It confirmed that the rate it 
was currently offering was 2.24%. Lender  H said that it would still be willing to offer a 
mortgage for £184,449 based on the lower rate of 2.09%.  
L&C told Mr S and Miss M that in order to try and put things  right, if Mr S and Miss M wanted  
to borrow £187,000 it would pay the difference between the new rate of 2.24% being  offered 
by Lender H, and the rate it wouldve offered of 2.14% had the application been processed 
correctly in September 2018. 
Mr S and Miss M say they didnt want any more  delays  in completion of their property, so 
they chose to go with Lender Hs offer to provide a mortgage for £184,499 with the terms 
initially proposed.  Mr S and Miss M borrowed money from their family to pay for the 
difference because  of the loan amount being less than what they needed.   
Mr S and Miss M complained to L&C about its error in processing  their application in 
September 2018. They said because  of this they had to borrow money to pay the extra  cost 
of buying their property.  They also said theyre paying interest across the mortgage term on 
the additional £999 fee which they cant afford to pay off in full now as was their original  plan. 
L&C recognised that it was its mistake that meant  the loan application wasnt  processed as it 
shouldve been.  It said the offer it made to pay the difference  in the interest rates offered was 
fair. It agreed to pay Mr S and Miss M £300 in compensation to recognise the trouble and 
upset caused  to Mr S and Miss M because  of its error. 
Ref: DRN41356902The investigator thought L&Cs  offer was fair, and didnt  recommend L&C do anything else.  
Mr S and Miss M disagreed. They say theyve  lost out on the saving they wouldve had by 
having to put in extra money, and that L&C was meant to be advising on the best rate in the 
open market,  but its offer to put things right was limited to products offered by Lender H. As 
the complaint  couldnt be resolved its been passed to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its not disputed  that L&C made an error on this case. The dispute between Mr S and Miss M 
and L&C now relates to the award  of compensation that should  be paid by L&C in 
recognition of what went wrong.  Ive focused  my comments on what  I think  is relevant. If I 
havent commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its affected  what I think  
is the right outcome.
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mr S and Miss M. Having reviewed  the 
case, I agree with the investigators findings,  and I wont be recommending further 
compensation for this complaint. I can understand this is likely  to come as a disappointment 
to Mr S and Miss M but I hope  my findings  go some way in explaining why Ive reached this 
decision.   
I accept that L&C put the wrong amount on the application in September  2018. But even if 
the adviser had correctly  sent the application requesting a loan amount of £187,000, Lender  
H has already confirmed that it wouldnt  have  been  able to offer this mortgage on the same 
terms as previously offered because  this product was no longer available.  So I dont think it 
would be reasonable to ask L&C to pay compensation  which achieves this outcome,  
because this wasnt an option for Mr S and Miss M even if L&C had done everything it 
shouldve.  
Lender H has explained that the best interest  rate it couldve provided in September  2018 for 
the loan amount requested of £187,000  was 2.14%.  This rate later changed to 2.24%.  I think  
L&Cs offer to pay the difference for the rate that was later offered by Lender H (2.24%) to 
what it wouldve been in September  (2.14%)  is fair. 
I understand Mr S and Miss M made the decision  to proceed with the original mortgage  
offered in June  for 2.09%, which was less than what they needed to borrow. Mr S and Miss 
M feels  strongly that they had no choice but to take this option, because  of the stress and 
potential delay in arranging new mortgage terms. I can appreciate this wouldve placed  Mr S 
and Miss M in a difficult position, and I dont doubt that it mustve been a very stressful  time.
Im aware that in August  2018, Bank of Englands base  rate changed from 0.50% to 0.75%. 
Because of the increase,  I think its likely  that any product offered in September  2018,  
wouldve been on less favourable terms than the offer Mr S and Miss M were  given in June 
2018. 
As the loan amount required by Mr S and Miss M had changed in September,  this wouldve  
required a new mortgage application, based  on mortgage products available  at the time. 
Although I accept that Mr S and Miss M feel strongly  that L&C are responsible for them  
being in a worse  off financial position, I think its likely that Mr S and Miss M wouldve had to 
Ref: DRN41356903make a decision on whether to continue with the initial mortgage deal which  was less than 
the amount they wanted to borrow, on the basis that they then funded  any additional 
borrowing themselves,  or accept a new deal for the full mortgage  amount required based on 
less favourable mortgage terms. 
I appreciate there are many variables to what Mr S and Miss M may have done had L&C 
processed the application correctly in September. However the evidence  shows that the 
mortgage product  Mr S and Miss M wanted (a loan of £187,000  on the same terms as 
offered previously with an interest rate of 2.09%) wouldnt have been  offered by Lender H.  
Lender H has said the best deal it wouldve offered is the loan amount requested at a rate of 
2.14%. L&C agreed to put Mr S and Miss M back into the position they wouldve been in if 
this offer was accepted. I can appreciate the circumstances around this werent ideal, as Mr 
S and Miss M didnt want any more delays or complications with completion of their property.  
But I think the £300 offered by L&C recognises the trouble and upset caused to Mr S and 
Miss M because of its error. 
Although Mr S and Miss M feel strongly that L&C is responsible for the additional money  that 
was put into the property  purchase (which they think resulted in a financial loss), I dont think  
it would  be fair to ask L&C to compensate for this potential  loss. Mr S and Miss M benefitted 
from additional equity  in their property. Theyre also paying less interest than what they 
wouldve likely been paying if theyd chosen a mortgage product from the offering available 
in September.  
It seems  likely that any mortgage offer for £187,000  wouldve been on a higher interest rate 
than the 2.09% previously offered. I accept theres no certainty  in knowing whether another  
product outside  of anything offered by Lender H wouldve been cheaper, but I think  the £300  
compensation recognises this uncertainty. For the reasons explained I wont  be 
recommending L&C pay anything more.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
The offer London and Country Mortgages  Ltd has made to Mr S and Miss M is fair and 
reasonable. I leave  it to Mr S and Miss M to decide whether to accept  this offer by the date 
specified below.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2019/
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4135690