K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined  his claim on his motor 
insurance policy after his van was stolen. 
background
Mr Ws van was stolen after he left the keys on the seat whilst unloading it. Admiral declined 
his claim because of the keys in car exclusion in his policy. But Mr W was unhappy with that. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  the van 
hadnt been left unattended at the time of the theft and so Admiral shouldnt  apply  the policy 
exclusion. She thought it should deal with Mr Ws claim less his policy excess.
Admiral replied that it thought Mr W hadnt been  in close proximity to the van and his 
presence hadnt deterred the theft.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this has been a difficult  and frustrating experience  for Mr W. His van was 
recovered but it was damaged and undriveable and so hes had to store  it for many months. 
Hes explained that this has had financial consequences for him. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. The policy term that 
Admiral has relied on to decline the claim requires the consumer to care for the van by 
removing the keys if it is left unattended. 
I think this is a common exclusion in motor insurance policies, and I dont  find it unusual or 
unreasonable. But it is significant  and I would expect it to be set out in the policy wording  
and in the summary or Key Facts document. 
Admiral has shown that the exclusion  was included in the policy summary document that 
was sent to Mr W when he took out his policy. It said this hadnt  been sent to Mr W again at 
renewal as there had been no changes to the terms and conditions. Admiral  said the 
exclusion was included  in the Insurance Product Information Document sent at renewal, but I 
think this is a general requirement  to secure and lock the van. But I can see that it was also 
included in the policy terms and conditions. 
So I think the exclusion was sufficiently brought to Mr Ws attention and so I think Admiral 
could normally reasonably rely on it to decline a claim. But I dont think  that would be fair and 
reasonable in Mr Ws particular circumstances. Ill now explain why I think this. 
Mr W described the circumstances of the theft. He had reversed into a site, put the keys on 
the vans seat to free his hands so that he could unload his toolbox, and closed the vans 
door. He intended  to later move the van to a parking place. Mr W said he had his back  to the 
van whilst  he put the tools down and so he didnt  see the thief approach  and get into his van. 
His son shouted  a warning to him but Mr W was unable to stop the thief from driving off. But 
Mr W said hed run to the van and almost had a hold of it.
Ref: DRN43688022In his complaint  form sent to us, Mr W said he was six metres away  from the van when it 
was stolen. Hed previously told Admiral that he was ten metres away. Hes provided a 
photograph of the area so the distance  can be established. I think hes shown that he was 
closer than ten metres  away at the time of the theft. Mr W said there  were  no obstructions  
between him and the van. Mr W told Admiral that he away from the van for 10 to 20 
seconds. 
I think Mr W has been consistent in his account of how the theft occurred. Hes provided 
photographs to illustrate and verify his account. 
The policy exclusion  requires the van to be unattended with the keys in it. Mr W admits that 
hed left the keys on the seat.  But I think Mr W was in the immediate proximity of his van and 
he was close enough to intervene in the attempted theft. He said hed run to the van and 
almost had the bar at the back in his grip. So I think Mr W was in a position  to make a theft 
unlikely. And so I think Mr W was sufficiently close to his van to mean that it wasnt 
unattended. 
So I think Admiral hasnt  treated Mr W fairly  and has inappropriately applied  the exclusion.  I 
think it should now deal with Mr Ws claim. Mr W has been without his van for some time, so 
if a settlement is made, I think Admiral should reasonably add interest  to this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to do the following:
1.Deal with Mr Ws claim for the theft of his van under the remaining terms and conditions 
of his policy.
2.If a settlement is made, interest should be added at 8% simple from the date of loss to 
the date of settlement.
3.HM Revenue & Customs  requires Admiral to withhold income tax from that interest. It 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4368802