K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about the level of arrears on his student loan that Link Financial Outsourcing  
Limited, trading  as Thesis Servicing (Thesis)  is now administering. He also says theyve 
been harassing him when chasing the debt.
background
Mr L took out a student loan in 1997.  The loan has been administered by Thesis since 2008.  
Mr L thinks the arrears Thesis are chasing  him for are excessive and he thinks theyve tried 
to contact far too frequently  and this amounts to harassment.
Thesis didnt agree. They said Mr Ls account  wasnt deferred between  April 2016 and 
January 2017  and that the total monthly payments added  up to £439.40. They didnt think 
theyd made  a mistake  with these sums and they didnt think  theyd harassed Mr L as they 
explained contact  was necessary and hadnt,  in their opinion, been  excessive.
But Mr L disagreed  and he referred  his complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator couldnt 
find any evidence that the arrears  Thesis were claiming were incorrect.  He thought  it was 
clear that the account hadnt  been  deferred for a period  of nine months  in 2016 and payment 
was therefore  due. He reviewed the contact information provided by Thesis  but he didnt 
think it was excessive. He thought  Thesis  were entitled to remind  Mr L of his debt and he 
didnt think their contact had amounted to harassment. So he didnt think  there was evidence  
Thesis had done anything wrong.
But Mr L disagreed  and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the amount of arrears
Mr L returned his deferment forms in April 2016  but there was insufficient  evidence his 
income was below the threshold above which  repayments would be necessary.  This was 
explained to him and as a result his payments  were  not deferred and repayments were  due. 
This continued until January 2017 when  sufficient evidence was received and deferment  was 
confirmed for a further year.
The amounts due for the period deferment wasnt applied were:
£48.48 for the period  April to August 2016  inclusive
Ref: DRN42810162£49.25 for the period  September to December 2016  inclusive
The total arrears  were therefore £439.40.
Ive not been provided with any evidence that these calculations are wrong and Im 
persuaded that Thesis were able to pursue the debts for these months as deferment  hadnt 
been granted.
harassment
Thesis are entitled to pursue the debt and where  Mr L hasnt  communicated  with them I think 
its reasonable to expect  the amount of contact, they attempt to make, to escalate. But that 
contact has, to my mind, been  reasonable. I cant see that the business has made  frequent  
contact and not given Mr L an opportunity to get back to them before they made further  
attempts. The call levels  appear to be reasonable and letters and texts appear proportionate. 
So I dont  think theres evidence here that Mr L has been harassed by Thesis.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Thesis has done  anything wrong here and I wont be asking 
them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4281016