K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs T bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking a mortgage. Theyve said 
they cant recall how the policy was sold. Halifax thinks  it was sold at a branch meeting. With 
all this in mind, I think its likely Mr and Mrs T applied for the mortgage and PPI at a meeting.
The policy provided  cover  on Mr T for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject  to its 
exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim, it offered to pay Mr and Mrs Ts monthly 
mortgage payment  plus 25%. Initially this benefit  was £699.82 and cost £42.40 per month.
Mr T was employed at the time as a technician and had been  there  for two years.  He has 
told us he was entitled to less than 12 but at least six months  full sick pay and redundancy 
pay. Mr T has told us of infections he suffered  as a child. He hasnt told us he had any other 
health issues  but he told Halifax that an injury had led, at least two years before the sale, 
to him missing two or three weeks of work.
At the time of the sale, Mrs T was employed  as a quality controller. Her salary  was less than 
half of Mr Ts. She has told us shed been  there for two years and was entitled  to at least  six 
months sick pay and redundancy pay.
Mr and Mrs T have  said they had savings at the time. From what Ive seen, including records 
Halifax made at the time, their savings  were worth around £1,000.  Theyve also told us they 
had life and critical  illness  cover.  
Halifax has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account closed in 2006.
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ts representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs T wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ts representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mr and Mrs T 
about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs T and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
Ref: DRN45043232The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs T received was misleading. These policies were promoted  
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ts. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN45043233The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ts case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. 
This sale took place  before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so Halifax  was 
required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  guidance when  
considering Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN45043234-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs T with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Ts 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs T 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs T know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr and Mrs T say they had no interest  in 
PPI and say it was included as part of the package with their mortgage. But to take the PPI 
Mr and Mrs T signed a separate application form for it and signed a box on their mortgage 
application form to say they would like the PPI. Ive seen nothing  from the time to say 
Mr and Mrs T had to take PPI - or had to sign the box or the separate  PPI application form 
for the cover if they didnt  want  it. Taking everything  into account, I think its more likely 
Mr and Mrs T knew the policy  was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it gave  advice during  this sale. Mr and Mrs T say it didnt. But if Halifax  did give 
advice, Halifax had to do more. With this in mind,  I think its fair to proceed on the basis that 
Halifax gave advice. This means Halifax had to advise Mr and Mrs T with reasonable care 
and skill, in particular  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
Halifax took some steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs T. The adviser had information  about  some of their financial circumstances as 
part of the mortgage application   for example Mr Ts salary and length of service.
Also the PPI application  form suggests  Halifax established Mr T was the main  income  earner 
and wasnt aware  of any impending unemployment.  But I dont think  Halifax did enough to 
ensure the PPI was suitable and establish Mr and Mrs T had a need for it. Ive nothing to 
show that Halifax asked  Mr T about  his work  redundancy pay or sick pay, for example.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs T given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN45043235While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs T, I do think its more likely than not the policy was ultimately suitable 
for them. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr T met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Although Mr and Mrs T say they were financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing 
else to suggest  the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-Mr and Mrs T had a need for the policy. If Mr T couldnt work for an extended period, it 
seems likely they would suffer a fall in income  and could  find their finances under strain, 
even allowing for Mr Ts work  benefits. The PPI benefit would help them manage the 
consequences of such a drop in income  and, by helping with mortgage  related costs, 
help keep their savings and Mrs Ts income free for other  purposes  at what could  be a 
difficult time for them  if Mr T were  unemployed or too sick to work.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs T. There 
was nothing about Mr Ts employment or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for them to claim. Also, as regards Mr Ts health issues,  the policy terms didnt  exclude  
disability claims arising  from pre-existing health issues.
-The policy would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months  for each  claim and for 
disability would only pay if Mr T were  unable to do his job, or any similar job, and also 
unable to do any work his experience,  education or training reasonably qualified him to 
do. But it still provided valuable cover in Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances  given the loss of 
income they could  suffer were  Mr T not working for a time and the role the policy  benefit 
could play as a result in helping Mr and Mrs T in that situation.  Also,  the policy  protected 
the mortgage payments on Mr and Mrs Ts home and I bear in mind  the potential  
consequences if Mr and Mrs T were to have become unable to make repayments on 
loans secured against their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs T sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs T were given a broad description  of what  the 
PPI was intended to cover  (that is that it would protect their payments if Mr T were unable  to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. I say this 
because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs T would  have  taken  the PPI without  any sense of 
what it was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
Also, the PPI application form showed  the monthly PPI benefit  and monthly  PPI premium for 
the expected mortgage  payment   and in fact these figures were  in line with the actual cost 
and benefit when the policy started.  So I think its likely  Mr and Mrs T were  made  aware of 
the monthly benefit amount and how much the premium  would  be. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs T, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
Ref: DRN45043236that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs T all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ts representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ts. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ts representative considers to be poor  value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs T about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ts representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs T have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs T? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs T suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this PPI to Mr and Mrs T. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had Halifax done  things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs T, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs T have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs T would have acted differently, or whether they would  have taken the 
policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs T say they wouldnt have taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN45043237Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs T had some interest in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax offered  them the PPI or advised them 
there was a suitable product they could buy that would  protect  their mortgage payments in 
the event Mr T were unable to work  because of accident, sickness  or unemployment, they 
concluded they wanted that product. But they made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances  at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them. Also, 
as Ive already  explained, the information  Mr and Mrs T were given about the cost and 
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the PPI, such as the limitations 
and exclusions,  wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs T thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr T wasnt 
a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr T be unable to do his 
own job or any similar job and also be unable to do any paid work which  his experience,  
education or training reasonably qualified him to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs T pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs T from taking the PPI.
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr T was eligible for its benefits  
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
Mr and Mrs T should the insured risks have  become  a reality.  
Also, I havent seen  anything to suggest  Mr T wouldve been caught  by any of the significant 
exclusions - disability claims  related  to pre-existing issues  werent  excluded  and he was in 
permanent employment.  So, with all this in mind, I think Mr and Mrs T still had some good  
reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these were more onerous than Mr and Mrs T might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
Ref: DRN45043238limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to 
Mr and Mrs T from taking  the policy, Mr and Mrs T, in their circumstances, still had some  
good reasons  to take it.
If Mr and Mrs T had known they could only claim for disability if Mr T were  not only unable to 
do his own or any similar  job but also unable to do any paid work  his experience, education  
or training reasonably qualified him to do, it might have played into their thinking about what  
to do. And I accept  it may have given them pause  for thought   although  given their 
circumstances I think on balance they would still have been interested  in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs T any claim they made would be limited to a 24 month  
period. This may have  differed from what they expected and might  have hoped  for. But Mr T 
wouldnt have received full sick pay for even 12 months and his redundancy entitlement  was 
likely very significantly less than 24 months income.  In those circumstances, I consider it 
likely Mr and Mrs T wouldve still thought  a policy that paid up to 24 monthly  payments would 
be of benefit and help them manage  the consequences should Mr T be unable to work, 
particularly for an extended  period, in the circumstances  covered  by the policy. The policy  
allowed for multiple claims to be made, could reduce Mr and Mrs Ts outgoings and help 
ensure their home was not placed  at risk at what could be a difficult and uncertain time.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs T wouldve  still taken the policy. The policy was suitable  for them,  sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences if Mr T were made  redundant, or unable  to work through 
accident or sickness. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr and Mrs T 
would have taken  the policy in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ts representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs T would not have  bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs T believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
Ref: DRN45043239to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs T in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  That is because, while I accept its possible they would not 
have taken the PPI, Im satisfied that, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they 
would still have taken  the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in 
those circumstances,  to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr and Mrs T compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware Mr and Mrs T think Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs T, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2000 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ts representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs T and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs T in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4504323