K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1998. Mr and Mrs G say Yorkshire Building  Society  (YBS) mis-sold them  the MPPI.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me. 
I can see that when  our adjudicator looked at the complaint, they said that the mortgage and 
MPPI were both in joint names  however I can see that while the mortgage  was in joint 
names, Mr and Mrs G chose to only cover Mr G with the policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the MPPI wasnt mis-sold.  Ill explain why. 
YBS has provided paperwork  from the time that Mr and Mrs G applied  for their mortgage 
 including  their mortgage application, and an MPPI application. I can see that on the 
mortgage application, the MPPI is presented as optional  and been selected with a tick 
in the relevant section. This section  also says that if MPPI is required, to complete a 
separate application form. This has been completed, with choices made over whom to 
provide cover for, and Mr and Mrs G have signed to give their agreement for the policy. 
So with this in mind, I think YBS made  it clear that Mr and Mrs G didnt have to take out 
the MPPI  and they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they may not 
remember this as it was so long ago.
YBS didnt recommend the MPPI to Mr and Mrs G so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for them. But it did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs G got the information  they needed to 
decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs G about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been. But they chose to take out the MPPI - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like Mr G was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover  - so it 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like the MPPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs G have said - but these  points dont change  my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the MPPI was is-sold.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs G paid on their MPPI  and whether 
YBS treated  them unfairly. 
Ref: DRN44578962YBS has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Gs MPPI was less than half of what 
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how YBS has been working this out and based 
on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Gs commission  was less than half 
the cost of the MPPI.  As thats  the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them  about the 
commission  so I dont  think  YBS treated  them unfairly. This means  it doesnt  need to pay 
Mr and Mrs G back  any of the commission  they paid for the MPPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4457896