K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained about the amount of compensation HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) 
offered to settle  their complaint about a mis-sold  payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out alongside their mortgage. 
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with HSBC  and at the same time were sold a PPI policy.  
In 2018 they complained to HSBC  that the policy had been mis-sold. HSBC agreed  to 
uphold their complaint  and offered  compensation to refund all the payments Mr and Mrs S 
had made  for the PPI.
But HSBC  records about the account  only started from 1996. So when it made  its offer in 
December 2018  it said it had refunded the premiums for the PPI paid from May 1996 to July 
2004. It did say to Mr and Mrs S that if they had any further information  about premiums 
being paid before May 1996  it would take them into account and recalculate the 
compensation.
Mr and Mrs S wrote  back a few days later and provided to HSBC  some documents from 
when they took out the mortgage in 1989 that showed the PPI started at the same time. On 
18 January 2019  HSBC  sent a letter to Mr and Mrs S that said it could find no PPI on the 
mortgage, taken  out in October 1989. So Mr and Mrs S brought  their complaint to this 
service.
However HSBC sent a further letter dated 12 February 2019 to Mr and Mrs S to say it had 
now recalculated  the compensation due and this included the premiums paid for the PPI 
from October 1989. 
HSBC has since said the letter  of January 2019 was sent in error  and it eventually  offered a 
further £25.00 for the trouble and upset this may have  caused.
Mr and Mrs S were  still not happy  as they said they had incurred additional costs in pursuing  
this complaint in time, phone calls and postage. They wanted an additional £250.00 for the 
trouble and upset.
Our adjudicator said the offer HSBC had now made for the PPI compensation was fair as it 
refunded all the costs  and gave Mr and Mrs S some compensatory interest  for being out of 
pocket. He also said he thought £100.00 for the trouble and upset would be fair.
HSBC agreed to pay £100.00  extra  but Mr and Mrs S didnt think  that amount was fair and 
still wanted £250.00. So the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has agreed to settle Mr and Mrs S complaint that the PPI taken out with their 
mortgage was mis-sold.  So in this decision Im not considering how the policy  came to be 
sold. Im only looking  at what is fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position  they 
wouldve been in if they hadnt  paid for the PPI.
Ref: DRN43472912When this complaint was first brought to this service  in February 2019 HSBC had made an 
offer to Mr and Mrs S to settle  their complaint about the PPI sold alongside  their mortgage. 
At that time HSBC had only offered to refund the PPI costs  and compensatory interest from 
1996 to 2004.
Mr and Mrs S after receiving this offer had provided documentation to show the PPI started 
before 1996. This showed the PPI was taken out at the same time as their mortgage in 
1989. But HSBC  then made  a mistake and in January 2019 told Mr and Mrs S there was no 
PPI associated with their mortgage  from 1989. At this point  they brought  their complaint to 
this service. 
We contacted HSBC and asked them to provide  us with some information. But before this 
was received it seems  HSBC realised it had made an error and on 12 February 2019 sent 
out an offer letter covering the period  from 1989,  so refunding  the full costs of the PPI from 
then until 2004.  
Based on the evidence  I have seen I am satisfied the PPI was taken out in October 1989 
and ran until 2004. So HSBC should have refunded the full costs paid for the PPI premiums  
each month  plus paid Mr and Mrs S some  compensatory interest for any time they were  out 
of pocket for the PPI cost.  This is what HSBC has now done since  the complaint  was 
brought to this service. And I understand the payment of the total compensation offered has 
now been paid to Mr and Mrs S.
So I think what HSBC has now paid as compensation for the mis-sold PPI is fair. 
Ive considered what trouble and upset may have been caused for Mr and Mrs S by the error 
HSBC made  in sending out the letter in January 2019 saying the PPI wasnt on the account  
from 1989. And Ive looked at the Schedule  of Costs Mr and Mrs S have said were the costs 
they had for bringing their complaint to this service.
When any consumer brings  a complaint to this service we generally do not award costs for 
time taken  in pursuing any complaint.  So when  a consumer is represented any costs  
incurred by the third party  are paid by the consumer. The amount of compensation paid in 
total would  be the same if the consumer is represented or brings the complaint themselves.
Where a consumer brings a complaint  themselves they obviously get to keep all of the 
compensation paid as they dont need to pay a representatives costs.  And in bringing a 
complaint consumers always have to spend some time in providing the information and 
liaising with this service.  But the consumer has to accept their own costs that they incur  in 
bringing a complaint.
In the circumstances of this complaint  I dont  think Mr and Mrs S have  been  put to any more  
trouble in respect of time spent than the majority  of other consumers who bring a complaint. 
So I dont  think any compensation for time spent  in pursuing the complaint through this 
service needs to be paid by HSBC.
Ive also considered the costs for telephone calls and postage Mr and Mrs S have said 
should be paid.  This came to £70.00 in their Schedule.  No receipts for any of these  costs  
have been provided, only an indication of what Mr and Mrs S seem to have estimated as 
these costs.
Ref: DRN43472913Some of these costs would have been incurred by any consumer in bringing a complaint. 
However it was the error by HSBC in sending out the letter in January 2019 that resulted in 
Mr and Mrs S incurring  some duplicate costs for resending documents they had already sent 
in December 2018.
So overall I think a small  amount of unnecessary cost was incurred by Mr and Mrs S in this 
particular case because  of the error made  by HSBC. So its fair they should not be out of 
pocket for these extra costs.
I think the £100.00 recommended by our adjudicator, and agreed by HSBC,  would more 
than cover these extra  costs caused  by HSBCs  error. Mr and Mrs S have indicated  a total of 
£70.00 for their postage  and calls and this was for all the costs from December. The original 
photocopying and postage costs  of sending their documents to show  the start date of the 
PPI as 1989 was all part of them pursuing the original complaint and not caused by the error 
of HSBC.
So if half of the total costs,  that would be £35.00, were taken for the extra copying and 
postage incurred for the duplicate information being  sent, the £100.00 compensation will pay 
back all that extra cost.  And it also gives some compensation for any upset the letter  sent 
may have  caused.
I have taken into account that HSBC took less than 4 weeks  to rectify the error made in its 
letter of 18 January 2019. And the correct amount of compensation in total had been paid to 
Mr and Mrs S by 18 February 2019.
So I think £100.00 is a fair amount for any trouble and upset caused by HSBCs mistake.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think that what HSBC UK Bank PLC has now paid in 
compensation to Mr and Mrs S for the mis-sold PPI is fair. And I think for the trouble and 
upset caused  by the letter sent in error in January 2019, £100.00 is a fair amount and should 
be paid to Mr and Mrs S by HSBC UK Bank PLC if it has not already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4347291