K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains Shoosmiths  LLP(Shoosmiths)  havent taken into consideration his 
vulnerability and have caused  confusion  around payment dates and failing to acknowledge 
his complaint. Mr W is assisted in bringing his complaint to this service  by his representative 
Ms Y.
background 
Mr W owes a debt to a third party who, for ease  of reference, Ill refer to as A. Shoosmiths 
were instructed by A to collect this debt. On 9 January 2018 A obtained a County Court  
Judgement (CCJ)  for the debt.  Mr W complained to Shoosmiths on a number of grounds.  
He thought it had been unnecessary to go to court as he was willing  to repay  the debt so 
asked for the court costs  to be reimbursed and the removal  of the CCJ from his credit file. 
He also asked that all future correspondence  be sent to his representative.  And for 
compensation for the failure  to deal with the claim fairly and proportionally. Mr W then 
brought his complaint to this service as over eight weeks had passed but he hadnt  received 
a full response to his complaint.
Shoosmiths partially upheld Mr Ws complaint. Their Final Response  Letter (FRL) dated 31 
March 2018 accepted thered been  occasions where  the level of service  on Mr Ws account  
had fallen below the standards theyd expect  and they apologised for any distress and 
inconvenience this mayve caused.  But they didnt believe  it was inappropriate for a CCJ to 
be requested. And Shoosmiths apologised for sending  letters  to Mr W with incorrect 
information. But didnt  think any compensation was warranted.
Our investigator thought given Mr Ws vulnerability  and anxiety regarding  his finances - of 
which he told Shoosmiths in July 2017 - she wouldve expected them  to ensure they didnt  
unnecessarily worsen Mr Ws situation. Due to errors made by Shoosmiths Mr W received  
two incorrect letters. And the investigator understood why this caused Mr W further anxiety 
and distress.  The investigator initially  recommended Shoosmiths  pay £150 compensation 
overall as a fair and reasonable outcome. When it was later brought to the investigators  
attention that correspondence was still being  sent direct to Mr W she felt the increased offer 
of compensation  to £200 from Shoosmiths - along  with an apology  - was fair.
Mr W told us the offer wasnt adequate compensation to reflect the severe  distress,  panic 
and anxiety he suffered  and continues to suffer due to Shoosmiths lack of regard to his 
circumstances. And he asked for Shoosmiths  to confirm in writing, to this service that theyve 
put in place more appropriate steps to ensure no further communications were sent to Mr W 
direct.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should say I agree with the approach taken by the investigator in what we can and 
cant look at here. So Im not looking at the complaint  points in respect  of the CCJ in favour 
of A. Im looking at the concerns about Mr Ws known vulnerability, confusing  
correspondence and failing to acknowledge his complaint. 
Ref: DRN47001052Shoosmiths LLP accept  they failed to acknowledge Mr Ws complaint initially.  It only came to 
light during our investigation  that they did produce a final response letter (FRL)  within the 
eight weeks required.  So, whilst I can understand not knowing about this letter was 
frustrating for Mr W, Im not going to take any further  action on this aspect of the complaint.
I understand why its important to Mr W that future correspondence  is addressed  to his 
representative. Shoosmiths offer their sincere  apologies for failing to do this. They  say the 
most recent error has been reviewed  by senior management and additional measures are 
now in place to ensure  no further  communication is sent to Mr W. I think  thats  a reasonable 
response.
Shoosmiths accepted in their FRL letters had been  sent to Mr W with incorrect information. 
Unfortunately that FRL only came to light during  our investigation, which wasnt  helpful  for 
Mr W and his representative.  Shoosmiths  also accept our investigators  findings.  Those  being  
that, knowing Mr Ws vulnerability,  they were expected to ensure they didnt unnecessarily  
worsen his situation  but, despite  this, mistakes were made which resulted in Mr W receiving 
two incorrect letters. That was compounded on 3 August  2018  when - after a formal  request 
from this service not to contact Mr W directly   Shoosmiths again wrote to him. They 
increased their offer of compensation from the £150  recommended by our investigator to 
£200 in total to reflect this. 
Mr W thought  that offer of £200 compensation  was in relation  to the confusing 
correspondence and continued communication to him despite a request to the contrary. He 
felt a further £250 compensation  for the distress and anxiety caused by Shoosmiths  failure  to 
have regard to his circumstances and treat him fairly  so £450 in total - was a fair and 
reasonable outcome. 
The issue  for me to decide is whether the amount of compensation offered in total is fair and 
reasonable. It isnt my role to punish businesses for making mistakes. Its my role to put 
consumers back into the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt  been made. 
So, Im looking at the impact the errors  actually  had on Mr W, no-one  else.  I cant make an 
award for the inconvenience of others. Ive considered very carefully the submissions  made 
on Mr Ws behalf. I have sympathy  for the situation hes found  himself in. And its 
commendable that, despite his difficulties, theres never  been  any suggestion that hes been  
unwilling to take responsibility for the debt.  Shoosmiths mistakes  have been detailed by the 
investigator in her view so I wont repeat them here.  Its clear  those  mistakes  caused Mr W 
considerable stress and thats been time-consuming  for him and his representative. 
Taking everything into account,  Im of the view that £200 compensation in total is fair and 
reasonable here. Its in line with what I would have  awarded had it not already been offered  
by Shoosmiths.  I know  Mr W feels it doesnt represent what hes been  through. I appreciate 
its been a very difficult and stressful  time for him. But I think  its a fair sum in all the 
circumstances of this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that Shoosmiths  LLP have made a reasonable offer to resolve this 
complaint. To put things right, Shoosmiths  LLP must pay Mr W £200  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Ref: DRN47001053Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4700105