K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained about the way MBNA  Limited (MBNA)  has dealt with a claim he 
made under section  75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
 
background
In November 2009 Mr G entered  into a contract to purchase a solar panel  and hot water  
system from a supplier called Ideal  Solar Energy.  The system cost £5,000  which he paid for 
in several instalments, but he made payment of the final balance using his MBNA  credit card 
in January 2010.
Mr G wrote to MBNA on 11 February 2016  to make  a claim under  s.75.   The purpose of s.75 
is to provide protection for consumers who pay for goods or services using credit.   The 
creditor (MBNA)  is jointly and severally  liable with the supplier for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier  subject  to certain considerations being  met.
Mr Gs claim explained  that the installation had never worked and the systems benefits  had 
been misrepresented  to him.  MBNA requested further information to review the claim, but 
ultimately stated the claim had been  made too late for it to consider.
Unhappy with MBNAs response, Mr G raised a complaint and referred the matter to this 
Service to look into.  One  of our investigators reviewed things, but concluded that MBNA had 
not acted unfairly  by rejecting Mr Gs s.75 claim.   In summary, she said that Mr Gs claim 
against the supplier  of the system was made outside  of the timescales  set out in the 
Limitation Act 1980.  As MBNA (as the credit  provider) is liable to the same extent as the 
supplier, she agreed it had acted reasonably when saying the like claim against it was 
made too late also.
MBNA accepted the investigators assessment, but Mr G did not.  He made a number of 
points, but essentially  said that he was unaware of any such  time limits  and as a consumer 
its not something that was ever pointed out to him.  He also explained that it was difficult to 
recognise when  the system was not working  particularly when the systems display 
showed that it was working.
The investigator wasnt persuaded  to change her mind, and so Mr G asked  for the complaint 
to be considered afresh and reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator  and Ill explain why.
Firstly, I feel I should  address concerns Mr G has expressed about the time its taken our 
Service to deal with his complaint.  I understand Mr Gs frustration that it took a long period 
of time for an investigator to review  everything, only to then conclude  the complaint could not 
be upheld.
As the investigator  has explained, our Service has received a number of complaints about 
similar issues, and weve spent time ensuring we deal with those issues  in a fair and 
consistent way.  But ultimately we look at each complaint on its own facts to decide what is 
Ref: DRN48052572reasonable in the circumstances of that case.  So I thank Mr G for his continued patience  
whilst his complaint has been with us, and would like to assure him that everything has been 
considered fully to reach an outcome.
In this complaint  Im considering whether  MBNA has treated Mr G fairly in its response to his 
s.75 claim.   There are a number of things Ive taken account of when reaching my decision, 
including the law, rules and regulations, good  practice and the facts of Mr Gs complaint.  In  
this decision Ill refer those that I consider to be most central  to my conclusions.
relevant considerations
Mr Gs complaint is about a claim under s.75 and so naturally the appropriate parts of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  are relevant here.   
As Ive explained above, s.75 sets out why a claim can be made against MBNA and it can be 
held responsible for a purchase  Mr G made using his credit card.  Im satisfied  in this 
instance that the debtor-creditor-supplier chain hadnt been broken  and theres an 
appropriate relationship between the parties  for MBNA to consider a s.75 claim.
There are also high level principles which apply to all firms  authorised by the financial 
regulator (the FCA).  Principle 6 of the FCA Principles  states:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
So MBNA must have  treated Mr G fairly when it declined his s.75 claim.  And as the reason 
MBNA gave  for declining Mr Gs claim was that it was made  outside  of the relevant time 
limits, the Limitation  Act 1980 is of particular relevance.
the Limitation  Act
The Limitation Act is the law which sets out the time limits which apply  to different causes of 
action that a party can pursue. 
As Mr Gs rights  to claim against  MBNA  under s.75 are on the same  basis of those he could 
make a claim against the supplier, I consider  the relevant time limits set out in the Limitation 
Act are:
Section 2 which applies to causes of action founded in tort law  which includes 
claims for misrepresentation.
Section 5 which applies to causes of action founded on simple contract law  which 
includes breaches of contract.
Section 9 which applies to causes of actions for sums recoverable by statute.
Section 14A which sets out when time limits are linked  to when a claimant had the 
necessary knowledge  and right to bring a claim.
misrepresentation
s.2 of the Limitation Act states An action  founded  on tort shall not be brought after the 
expiration of six years  from the date on which the cause of action  accrued.
Ref: DRN48052573For me to determine whether a claim  was brought within six years,  I have to decide  when the 
cause of action,  or damage, took place.  The damage is the financial loss arising as a result 
of the misrepresentation.  
In this case, Mr G says the benefits  of the solar panel and heating system  were the 
inducement that made him make the purchase.   But his s.75 claim is largely that those 
benefits were misrepresented and so he entered a contract  which wasnt  the value for 
money he expected.   Mr G says were  it not for the misrepresentation about the potential 
benefits, then he wouldnt have entered the contract  to purchase the system at all.
So Mr Gs financial  loss occurred when he contracted  to pay £5,000 for the solar panel and 
heating system in November 2009, and he made payment of those sums by the end of 
January 2010.  
Mr G raised his claim with MBNA in February  2016  which is more than six years  from when 
the damage occurred  and his cause of action accrued.  
breach of contract
s.5 of the Limitation Act states An action  founded  on simple contract shall not be brought  
after the expiration of six years from the date which that cause of action accrued.
A breach of contract  occurs when one of the parties to that contract doesnt perform  the 
obligations set out in the contract.  So Mr G would have six years to raise a claim from when 
a loss occurred  as a result  of the breach of contract.
The purchase contract Mr G entered into with Ideal Solar Energy included a guarantee that it 
would undertake to repair or replace faulty materials free of charge should any fault appear 
due to defective materials or workmanship  in any Ideal Solar  Energy  systems  installed by us 
within one year from the date of installation in addition to this the solar  collectors  and the hot 
water cylinder both carry a ten year warranty .
Mr Gs complaint refers to a number  of issues which could amount to a breach of contract 
under the supplier guarantee.   Full  details  of these havent been provided,  but he refers to a 
component which broke and needed  to be replaced,  and various plumbing issues.  As these 
seem to have occurred within six years of Mr G complaining to MBNA, its likely  these are 
issues it should consider under its s.75 process.  
MBNA has confirmed it will honour  anything covered under the guarantee, which  is 
reasonable and what  I would  expect  to happen  in such circumstances.  But this will require 
Mr G to provide further information and evidence as to the problems and any reports  or 
quotations for repairs.
sums recoverable by statute law
s.9 of the Limitation Act states An action  to recover any sum recoverable  by virtue of any 
enactment shall not be brought  after the expiration of six years from the date on which the 
cause of action  accrued.
Ive considered this section because the basis of Mr Gs claim against MBNA is under s.75 
and so is a sum recoverable by virtue of enactment  (statute  law from an act of parliament).  
But I dont think this changes the position  compared to the other provisions in the Limitation 
Ref: DRN48052574Act.  s.75 makes the lender jointly and severally liable for a suppliers misrepresentation  or 
breach of contract  effectively making MBNA  step into the shoes of Ideal  Solar Energy.
This means  that the limitation period under s.9 is the same  as for misrepresentation and 
breach of contract  and gives rise to effectively the same cause of action.
s.14A Limitation Act
Although the limitation time period  is six years  for cause of action as set out above,  s.14A  
provides for a second period in which a claim  be made.  That is, if later than the six year 
period, three years from the earliest  date on which the claimant had both the knowledge 
required to bring  a claim for damages, and the right to bring such  a claim.
This is a relevant  consideration  for Mr Gs claim as Ive already explained he raised  his 
complaint with MBNA over six years from when  the contract was entered and damage  
suffered.  So applying s.14A in this instance  Ive considered when Mr G knew,  or ought to 
have known, that he had a claim  for misrepresentation  against  Ideal Solar Energy.
Its difficult to know  when  specific problems  starting  occurring with the system,  although  we 
know from Mr Gs evidence it wasnt functioning properly and had to be fixed  in 2010.   So 
given the initial issues, I cant be certain  exactly when Mr G would have known the system 
had been misrepresented  to him.  But given  that Mr G raised his claim in February  2016 
initially, I must decide on balance whether that was within three  years  of when he knew, or 
ought to of known he had a cause to make  a claim.
Mr G was expecting to make savings of 60% on his energy bills as a result of having the 
system installed.  Due to the time that has passed,  his bills are no longer available  for the 
period of 2010  2014.  In  his complaint Mr G has explained that the system has never 
delivered the savings he expected, and allowing for the initial  technical  problems, Im 
satisfied on balance he ought to have realised  the system wasnt  working as he expected  
within the first couple of years.
So I consider it reasonable for MBNA to have  concluded the claim was made out of time, 
and that he did know, or ought to have known he had a claim  for misrepresentation before 
February 2013  as he hadnt made any savings and was still paying for the system.
summary
In this decision I am considering whether MBNA  has acted in a fair and reasonable manner 
when dealing with Mr Gs s.75 claim.  It is for the courts to ultimately decide whether or not 
any right to claim against the supplier (and so MBNA) has expired under the Limitation Act, 
but given the information  available and representations made by both parties, Im satisfied  
MBNA has applied  the rules fairly  and made a reasonable decision.
Im aware Mr G has said that as a consumer he wasnt  aware  of any time limits that would 
affect his ability to make a claim.   Whilst I understand his point, the time limits are set out in 
law  and so I cant say its unreasonable for MBNA to apply them.
Ive not seen any evidence to show Mr G was unable to make a claim within time, and so I 
cannot fairly ask MBNA to do anything else now.  I realise this will come  as a disappointment 
to Mr G, but I must  assure him Ive considered everything impartially.
Ref: DRN48052575my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against MBNA  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4805257