K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a store-card  PPI policy taken out in 2004.  The policy was added  to
Mrs As store card account when she applied for the card in store.
The PPI was sold to Mrs A by a third party but FICL have accepted responsibility for this 
complaint. Ill refer to FICL as the seller to keep  things  simple.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant  issues to take into account  are the same as those set out in the note on 
our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs As complaint and Ill explain  why.
FICL needed to give Mrs A clear information  about  the PPI before she agreed to take it. That 
included highlighting anything that could make  it difficult for Mrs A to make a successful 
claim.
Mrs A says she suffered  from a pre-existing medical condition at the point of sale  and Ive 
seen no reason to doubt what shes said. I think this is important  because  the policy  she took 
out excluded cover for any pre-existing medical conditions. And based on the nature of
Mrs As condition  I think its likely  she wouldve thought this condition  is something she might 
have had to take time off for in the future  and something she might have needed to claim on 
the policy for.
Based on what Ive seen  of the available terms and conditions from the time, Mrs A wouldnt 
have been able to claim for any condition she wouldve known about prior to the sale or 
sought medical advice for 12 months  before the start date of the cover. And as Mrs A had 
been diagnosed just a few months before  she took out the cover and had visited  a doctor in 
that time,  I dont think she would  have been able to make a successful claim for any time off 
as a result  of this. So I think FICL should  have  pointed  out the exclusion to Mrs A and Ive 
not seen anything to suggest  it did this.
Given Mrs A has told us she had recently been diagnosed and was suffering from quite  bad 
symptoms at the time, I think Mrs A wouldve seen her medical condition as a likely reason 
she might  want  to make a claim under the policy. And I dont think  Mrs A wouldve bought  
this policy  if shed understood that she wouldnt be able to claim for it. So I think  shes  lost 
out because of what FICL did wrong.
So, for the reasons mentioned above,  I uphold Mrs As complaint.
Ref: DRN48311142putting things right
FICL should put Mrs A in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL  should find out how much Mrs A would have owed when she closed her store  card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs A owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs A made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL  should add simple interest  on the difference between what Mrs A would have owed  
when she closed  her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C.If  when FICL works  out what Mrs A would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs A 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs A paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs A 
wouldve owed FICL something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL  should tell Mrs A what its done  to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs A that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs A a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mrs As complaint.  So Financial Insurance
Company Limited  should pay Mrs A compensation in line with the instructions set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4831114