K820x#14complaint
Ms B complained about how Aioi Nissay  Dowa Insurance Company of Europe  SE handled 
her claim under  her motor insurance  policy.
background
After Ms Bs car was damaged in an accident,  Aioi arranged for their approved garage to 
repair it. 
Ms B complained that the repairs took too long, that being without her car was inconvenient, 
and that the replacement car Aioi gave  her wasnt suitable.
Aioi partly upheld Ms Bs complaint and offered her £150 compensation, but she didnt think 
it was enough.   
The adjudicator didnt recommend that her complaint should  be upheld. She thought that, 
although Aioi had made some mistakes in dealing with Ms Bs claim, the compensation theyd 
offered was reasonable. Ms B didnt agree and so her case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B felt that Aioi had taken too long to have her car repaired. Aiois file shows  that shed 
claimed under her policy on about  22 February.  The accident in which  her car had been 
damaged had happened more than a month earlier, but she didnt claim then because she 
didnt want to pay the policy excess of about  £600. Aioi told her she had to pay that after the 
repairs were done.  
Aioi said that their garage had gone  as arranged to collect Ms Bs car and give her a courtesy 
car on about 23 February, but shed sent them away. They  said that this was because  she 
didnt want to pay the policy excess upfront, and she didnt  think  that the courtesy car the 
garage had offered her was suitable. Aioi explained  again that she wouldnt need to pay her 
policy excess upfront and she decided to go ahead  with her claim. But by this time it was 28 
February and the garage didnt have any replacement cars available,  though they said theyd 
bring her one as soon  as it was available and the bad weather conditions had improved. Ms B 
wasnt happy with this. On about 2 March Aioi gave her a courtesy car and a few days later 
her own car went into Aiois garage  for repair, on about 6 March.
The garage then assessed her car and estimated its repair cost on about 13 March. Aioi had 
to authorise that repair but by mistake the garage sent the authorisation request to the wrong 
place, and it was about a week  before Aioi received  it. Aioi authorised the repairs  promptly,  
on about 20 March,  and the garage  repaired Ms Bs car and returned it to her on about 30 
March. But she noticed about 10 days later that her car was leaking, so the garage  took it 
back and repaired it. 
Ref: DRN43336962Aioi didnt agree with Ms Bs complaints  about her policy excess and the garages 
replacement car. But they accepted that they hadnt provided the level of service they 
expected; specifically that theyd  delayed in getting the repairs  authorised, the car had to go 
back again as it hadnt been  repaired properly, and that they hadnt called her back when 
promised. They offered her £150 in compensation for that.
The mistake  with getting authorisation meant the first repair  took an extra week. I agree that 
this must have been inconvenient for Ms B, and again when her car had to go back  into the 
garage for something  that could have been  repaired the first time. But Aioi are entitled  to be 
given the chance to rectify the repair. They were prompt in arranging  to do that, and the 
garage repaired and returned her car within a few days, so I dont think thats  an unreasonably 
long time period. Further, theyve apologised for this and offered compensation. 
Ms B thinks that their offer isnt enough.  She also complained about the policy excess  and 
replacement car. She felt that Aiois  compensation should cover her excess and a months 
loss of use of her car during which she still had to make her finance payment  for it.
She was unhappy  about having  to pay the policy excess but Aioi said it was always  payable 
on a claim,  and her policy required it. 
Her policy says on P4: 
Excess (es) the amount  you will have to pay towards any claim. Your  Schedule  shows the 
amount of excess applicable for each driver and any other excesses due. You are 
responsible for the excess even if the incident is not your fault.
Its normal in insurance to have to pay a policy excess  on a claim. And, as the clause  and 
schedule are clear, I agree that Ms B has to pay this.
Aioi gave Ms B a replacement car while hers was in the garage. But it wasnt  a like for like 
replacement. It was smaller than her car and she felt that, unlike her own car, it wasnt driveable 
in adverse weather conditions. She felt that Aioi should have provided a like for like car. 
Her policy says on page 11:
Temporary replacement car
If the loss or damage to your car is covered by this policy, and you use the approved UK 
repairer of our choice,  you will receive  a temporary  replacement car while repairs  to your car 
are being  carried  out, provided that one is available.
Temporary replacement  cars are usually small cars with a manual  gearbox (typically a 
one litre hatchback or similar). A temporary replacement car is not intended to be an 
exact replacement for your car.
Again, this is not an unusual clause in motor insurance policies, and I think that its fair and 
clear. Ms Bs policy doesnt entitle her to loss of use of her own car or to a like for like 
replacement for it. I can see that Ms B has found it very frustrating because  she was without her 
own car in difficult weather conditions, and didnt feel that the replacement car was driveable in 
those, when her own car would have been. But the weather or the driving conditions at that time 
werent Aiois fault, and they did what they said they would under her policy.
Ref: DRN43336963So, taking all the above into account,  I think that Aioi havent acted unfairly, and that their 
compensation offer of £150 is reasonable, and so I dont ask them  to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4333696