K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that BNW (Holdings)  Limited T/as Kingston Mitsubishi (BNW) mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  with a car finance agreement.
background
In 2005 Mr M took out a finance agreement during a dealership visit to buy a car. At the 
same time he also took out PPI designed to protect his finance payments in the event he 
couldnt work because of accident or sickness or in the event of his death.
The policy was a single premium policy, which cost around £1600 before interest was 
applied. The monthly cost equated to around  £40 a month over the 48 month term.
At the time of the sale Mr M told us he was self-employed,  he was in good health and he 
didnt have any other means  of making his repayments if things went wrong  other than he 
said his family would help.
I issued my provisional decision of September 2019 in which I said I was likely not to uphold  
Mr Ms complaint. In summary I said that unless  any new information  changed  my mind, my 
final decision  would be along  the following lines:
This was an advised sale where  BNW recommended PPI to Mr M, so it had to 
ensure PPI was suitable for him.
BNW  made it clear  PPI was optional  Mr M had to tick and sign to take out PPI in a 
separate section  of the finance  agreement,  which he did.
PPI was suitable for Mr M in light of his circumstances at the time  for example he 
was eligible for cover;  he wasnt  caught  by any of the key exclusions on or limits  to 
the cover; and he had a need for cover.
His self-employed status didnt make PPI unsuitable  because the terms of the policy  
didnt make it difficult or onerous for him to make  an unemployment  claim.
The information about PPI Mr M received might not have been as clear or as timely  
as it could have  been, but because the policy was right for him he wouldnt have 
been put off taking  it out had BNW  done anything  more.
BNW acknowledged  receipt of my provisional  decision and said it had nothing further to add.
Despite several attempts to contact Mr M  by telephone and by post  hes not responded 
to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im mindful that Mr M hasnt replied to my provisional decision. But weve  made reasonable 
attempts to elicit a response from him  including leaving voicemail messages and writing to 
him. In doing  so weve reiterated the deadline  for responses, so I think  if Mr M wanted  to 
respond and he had something  more to say he wouldve  done  so by now.  I therefore think 
its safe for me to go ahead and issue my final decision.
Ref: DRN44378562Because Ive not been given anything to change my mind, Ive reached  the same  conclusion 
as set out in my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4437856