K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Santander UK plc told him, three times, that his debts with it had been  
written off.
background
Mr O had two accounts  and a loan with Santander.  All three  accounts  were defaulted in 
2013. The loan was passed  to a debt collection agency and has since been settled. Mr O 
has been paying £1 per month towards  the balances outstanding  on the other two accounts. 
In late 2018 Mr O had a bad accident and hasnt been able to work  since  then. He contacted 
Santander about the two outstanding debts  and three different advisors have  all said that the 
debts were written off in 2013. He believes that this means that he no longer owes any 
money. He is also unhappy  about  the level of service he has received from Santanders  
advisors and for being given an incorrect contact number.
Santander accepts  that its letter gave a wrong telephone number and that the information  
given by the advisors could have been clearer. It also accepts that it did say that the debts 
had been written off, although on each occasion the advisor made  it quite clear  that a debt 
remained. Santander agrees that the term written off should not have been used because  it 
can give rise to confusion.  It has apologised and paid £125  Mr O for the upset it caused.
Our investigator said that whilst Santander  had said, a number of times, that Mr Os 
accounts had been written  off, it also made  it very clear that the debts were still outstanding.  
Santander understood Mr O wasnt able to make regular repayments  so it had asked him to 
pay what he could, when  he could.  Santander  has already paid £125 compensation for the 
upset and confusion  it caused, which the investigator thought was reasonable.
Mr O didnt agree. In summary, he said that he waited far too long for Santander to reply  to 
his complaint, it wasnt clear that the letter it then sent was a final response letter and, 
despite Santander saying that it would stop using  the phrase written off it has continued to 
do so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O has raised  a number of issues about Santanders actions which  he would like this 
service to answer. Whilst I have read and considered  all that he and Santander have  said, I 
find that I do not need to comment individually on all of the points Mr O has raised, in order 
to resolve the complaint in line with my statutory duties.
written off
I understand Mr Os concern in that he has been told by Santander staff on a number of 
occasions that his two accounts had been written off and that he neednt make  any 
repayments. I can see that he might take this to mean that his debts have been removed. In 
relation to debts,  the term written off means  that once a debt has been defaulted (with the 
statutory default  notices being  sent to the customer) it is considered a bad debt. If the bank 
doesnt expect  it to be repaid in a reasonable amount of time it can write off the debt in its 
records. This means that it will no longer charge interest or fees and it can reduce the debt 
Ref: DRN46907292to zero in its books to report it as a loss. It doesnt mean that the debt has been wiped out or 
eliminated. Often, at this stage, a bank will pass the debt to a debt collection agency.
Mr Os accounts were  defaulted in 2013  and shortly after that Santander closed the accounts 
in its records. No further interest  or charges were applied to the accounts. I can see that Mr 
O was paying  £1 per month to each of those  accounts until January  2019. So Im satisfied 
that he knew that he still owed money  to Santander.
When he contacted  Santander to let it know that he wasnt able to work, following his 
accident, I appreciate  that Santander  might  have caused some confusion  by telling him that 
the accounts had been written off. Having  listened to the calls and reviewed Santanders 
records, I find each advisor  made  it quite  clear that a debt still existed,  even though they said 
that Mr O could make repayments as and when he could.
Santander accepts  that its advisors perhaps  could  have been clearer  in some  of these calls. 
It has apologised and has already paid Mr O £125  for the upset  and confusion  it caused. I 
consider this to be fair and reasonable.
Mr O has said that, despite Santander  saying it would ask its staff to stop using the phrase 
written off they continue  to do so. Although I accept that the phrase was used after 
Santander had written to Mr O about this, I find that the advisor  only did so after Mr O used 
the phrase himself first, by asking  the advisor  to confirm that the account had been written  
off. Santander  has told this service that it will ask its staff not to use the phrase, even if it is 
used by one of its customers. I appreciate  Mr Os strength of feeling about this matter but Im 
not a regulator so I cant require the bank to change its overall  policies or systems.
final response letter
Santander wrote to Mr O on 14 January 2019  about  his complaint. Mr O didnt consider this 
to be Santanders  final response to this letter. He felt that Santander should have stated it 
was a final response letter. I have looked at the letter and I can see that Santander has 
included Mr Os referral rights  to this service. The FCA handbook says that a final response  
letter is a written response,  which:
a)accepts the complaint  and, where  appropriate, offers redress; or
b)offers redress without accepting the complaint; or
c)rejects the complaint  and gives reasons for doing so;
and which informs the complainant that, if he remains dissatisfied with the firm's response, 
he may now refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service  and must do so within  
six months
Im satisfied that Santanders letter  fulfilled  all these  conditions. It didnt need to have  the title 
of Final Response  Letter to be considered  as one.
response to the final response letter
Mr O says that he sought the Citizens Advice  Bureaus help to reply to Santanders  final 
response letter and Santander chose to ignore  his letter. But I find that Santander did reply, 
in writing, on 23 January  2019, just one week later. It told Mr O that its original decision 
remained unchanged and that he still owed the outstanding debts. It asked him to make an 
arrangement with the debt collection agent. The letter also gave  Mr O his referral  rights to 
this service again. Mr O suggests that he didnt receive the letter until March  2019 after he 
Ref: DRN46907293chased Santander again. Whilst  I cant say why Mr O didnt receive it Im satisfied  that 
Santander sent it so I cant  find that it caused any delays or made a mistake.  
I realise that Mr O will be disappointed but, for the reasons  I have explained, Im not 
persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable to require Santander to do any more than it has 
already done.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4690729