K822xcomplaint
P, a limited  company, and Mrs and Mr S, a commercial partnership, have jointly complained  
that Lloyds Bank PLC (the bank)  mis-sold  them two fixed rate commercial loans. 
Where necessary, Ill call P and Mrs and Mr S collectively the borrowers. 
background 
The complaint covers the whole period of the loans  to date, which  were  taken out 
respectively in 2009 and 2010. Both loans were first entered into by P, and in 2012  they 
were both transferred  (or novated) on the same  terms and conditions, with the consent  of P 
and the bank, to Mrs and Mr S. The bank supplied the respective borrowers beforehand with 
information about the potential break  costs under the loans,  both in 2009/2010  and in 2012.
Mrs and Mr S were  and are the directors and controlling shareholders of P. So they have 
authority to speak and act on behalf  of P as well as for themselves.
The fixed  rate loan from 2009 was for around  £100k and it runs until 2023, with the interest 
rate fixed  for the full term.
The fixed  rate loan from 2010 was for about  £170k. Around the same time P also borrowed a 
further sum of about £110k from the bank at the variable rate. Both of these loans were for 
20 years,  but with the fixed rate (on the £170k) running for only ten years.  
The complaint made  by the borrowers via their representative is that the bank didnt 
adequately explain  the fixed rate loans to them, and in particular didnt adequately explain 
the potential size of the break  costs  that might  be payable  if they needed or wished to repay  
the loans early while the fixed rate was still payable. They say that if the bank had given 
them better information, they wouldnt  have  borrowed at the fixed rates.  The bank didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. She found that the bank hadnt  adequately explained 
the break costs  to either  P or Mrs and Mr S before they entered  into the loans. She 
concluded that if the borrowers had been better  informed, theyd have  still fixed the rates,  for 
ten years  in each  case. So she recommended that, as redress,  the bank should reduce the 
fixed rate period under the 2009 loan to ten years.  
The bank didnt  agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  but offered to implement her 
recommended redress  if the borrowers  accepted it. 
Via their representative the borrowers asked for an ombudsmans review of their complaint. 
They thought in particular that ten years was too long a period for them  to fix the interest  rate 
on the loans. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint the borrowers but 
Ive come to the same  conclusions as the adjudicator, and for similar reasons.
Ref: DRN47980332The bank didnt  act as the borrowers  adviser in relation to the loans  this is what the 
borrowers acknowledged when they signed the loan documents,  and Ive seen nothing  in the 
available evidence to contradict this. 
That being  so, it was for the borrowers to decide if the fixed  rate loans were  appropriate for 
them and their business. It would be hard for me to conclude the borrowers would have 
found fixed rate loans  inappropriate in all circumstances, when  they entered into two of them  
of their own volition.
That said,  I too think the bank didnt adequately explain the potential size of break costs to 
the borrowers. Specifically, the break costs might  potentially have been considerably larger  
than those mentioned  in the banks illustrations. 
So I have  to decide what difference if any it would have made if the borrowers  had known 
the break costs  might  be considerably larger than those  they saw in the banks illustrations. 
This isnt an exact  science, and I have to reach a conclusion that I think  is fair and 
reasonable.
All things  considered, I think its reasonable to conclude that the borrowers  P originally and 
then Mrs and Mr S at the time of the novations  would still have fixed the interest rates, or 
agreed to the novation  of loans containing fixed rates, if the rates  ran for ten years  from the 
start of the respective  loans. This provided  certainty  in terms of loans costs until 
Mrs and Mr S reached their preferred retirement  ages,  while  the fact that a large part of their 
borrowings from the bank  was on the variable  rate gave  them  a degree of flexibility if earlier  
repayments were necessary or desired. Theres nothing in the available  evidence  to indicate 
that P in 2009/2010 or Mrs and Mr S in 2012 intended to repay the fixed rate loans  within ten 
years. 
This would require only a change to the 2009  loan; the fixed rate period under  the 2010  loan 
is already for ten years.
Finally, in my view there was nothing in terms of the law, regulation or good practice that 
required the bank  to disclose to the borrowers whether or how, if at all, it specifically 
rewarded its staff in relation to the borrowers  fixed rate loans. 
my final decision
If Mrs and Mr S accept  this decision, they do so on behalf of themselves and on behalf of P. 
They will make any necessary apportionment  of compensation between themselves and P. 
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend the bank to pay the 
balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint.  I consider that fair compensation 
requires Lloyds Bank PLC to carry out the steps  I specify below. I order  the bank to do this - 
up to a maximum financial effect of £150,000. 
Recommendation: If the financial  effect of carrying out in full the steps I specify exceeds  
£150,000, I recommend that Lloyds Bank PLC carry them  out in full. 
Ref: DRN47980333This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  It doesnt  bind the bank. Its 
unlikely that Mrs and Mr S can accept my decision and go to court to ask for any balance. 
They may want to consider getting independent  legal  advice  before  deciding whether to 
accept this decision. 
The specified steps
In settlement  of the complaint Lloyds Bank PLC should rewrite the 2009 fixed  rate loan to a 
shorter term of ten years.  It should:
Reimburse the difference in payments between the existing and replacement  
products during the ten year term. If the payments  are more than for the existing 13 
year fixed  rate Lloyds  can offset  this against any losses. The loan should be settled 
on the basis of the underlying variable rate thereafter.
Arrange it so that any break cost that would apply now will be based on a ten year 
fixed rate rather than a 13 year fixed rate.
Add compensatory  interest at 8% simple a year to any reimbursed payments due 
from the bank, from the date the cost arose to the date of settlement. 
If Lloyds Bank PLC believes its legally required to deduct tax from the interest,  it should  
send a tax deduction certificate with the payment.  The borrowers may then be able to 
reclaim any tax overpaid from HMRC,  depending on the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 May 2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4798033