K820x#14Complaint
Mrs S complains that she was unfairly charged a penalty by TSB Bank plc for withdrawing 
funds from her ISA a day early. 
Background 
Mrs S opened an ISA with TSB in April 2014 with a two year term and it matured on 
18 April 2016. On 19 April 2016 Mrs S funds were  reinvested for another  two years.  
On 17 April 2018 another ISA provider contacted TSB to complete a transfer.  The ISA 
transfer requested  that TSB forward  the funds immediately. On 18 April 2018  TSB withdrew  
Mrs S funds  from the ISA and sent them via bank  transfer to the new ISA provider. 
Mrs S was charged £1,242.01 because her ISA funds  were withdrawn before the maturity 
date had passed. Mr S complained to TSB on behalf of his mother. 
TSB looked at Mrs S complaint but didnt uphold it. TSB said the new ISA provider had 
requested that Mrs S money be sent with immediate effect so it transferred  them  in line with 
its instructions. TSB said the process is automated  and didnt uphold the complaint. 
On behalf of his mother, Mr S referred  her complaint to our service and it was passed  to an 
investigator. The investigator initially  upheld  Mrs S complaint in part and said Nationwide 
should pay her £100  because of some confusing information that was given over the phone. 
But the investigator later clarified that the information was given to Mr S and he would need 
to complain in his own right. The investigator didnt  uphold Mrs S complaint about the 
withdrawal charge she paid. Mr S asked to appeal so the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs S is so upset. TSB transferred the funds in her ISA to another  
provider less than a day before the maturity  date. If the transfer had been  made  on 
19 April 2018, instead of the day before, she wouldnt  have been  charged.  But, I have  to 
take the circumstances of the transfer into account. 
The investigator contacted the new ISA provider to ask about the transfer.  The new ISA 
provider sent application evidence that shows it asked TSB to proceed immediately with the 
transfer. So whilst I understand why Mrs S is upset, Im satisfied that the evidence shows 
TSB was asked to transfer the funds  immediately. 
Mr S has said that it should have  been clear that Mrs S didnt want the transfer to go through 
until after the maturity  date had passed. But thats  not what the instruction  TSB received 
said. And TSB has explained  that the process is automated  and is only manually dealt with 
when an error occurs.  In this instance, the information provided by the new ISA provider was 
correct and required no human intervention. So the transfer completed in line with the 
instruction TSB received.  I know my decision will seem harsh, but as there  was no human 
Ref: DRN46884132involvement in the transfer and it was in line with the instructions TSB received, I havent 
found it made a mistake.  
There appears to be some debate about when  the ISA account matured. But the systems 
information Ive seen is clear in showing  that Mrs S took a new two year ISA product  on 
19 April 2016. The ISA maturity date was two years  later on 18 April 2018. The first date 
Mrs S could have transferred her funds without a penalty was 19 April 2018.  The two year 
ISA product  Mrs S took in 2016 ran for the correct  term. 
TSB says it also sent Mrs S a letter in March 2018  that confirmed the maturity date. 
Unfortunately, TSB hasnt  been able to send us a copy, but Ive seen systems evidence to 
show a maturity reminder letter was sent.  
TSB has told us it transferred Mr S funds by Bacs on 18 April 2018.  I understand the new 
ISA provider didnt  receive them until 21 April 2018 but thats  in line with how transfers of this 
type work  - they dont  go through  instantly.  So whilst I can see there was a short delay 
between the funds being sent by TSB and received by the new ISA provider,  thats because  
of the time it took for the transfer  to go through. Im satisfied TSB sent the funds to the new 
ISA provider on 18 April 2018.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs S but I havent found any evidence of a mistake by TSB in terms 
of how it handled  the ISA transfer. Whilst I understand  Mrs S concerns, TSB acted in line 
with the instruction it received from the new ISA provider and transferred the funds as 
quickly as possible.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4688413