K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Miss W took out a credit card with Lloyds  in 1994. It seems likely that she was sold PPI at 
the same  time. 
The PPI wouldve helped cover  the repayments  on her credit card for up to 12 months  at a 
time if she couldnt work. It also provided some  life cover. 
Miss W says she didnt  need the PPI and that she wasnt given enough information about it. 
The adjudicator didnt think Miss Ws complaint should be upheld. Miss W disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Ws 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Its not certain when  the PPI was sold. Lloyds  only has records  dating back  to 2000. But I 
think its most likely  that the PPI was sold at the same time the credit card was taken out. I 
dont have any evidence  to suggest  otherwise and this is the most  usual  time for PPI to be 
sold. 
Miss W says she cant remember  anything about the sale, although she says she wasnt 
given enough  information about the PPI. 
Im not surprised Miss W cant remember clearly what happened during a sale which took 
place over 25 years ago. Lloyds say that however the credit card was sold,  Miss W wouldve 
had a clear choice about whether to take the PPI. Lloyds has provided  sample  copies of the 
application forms that were in use at the time, and I can see from these that a clear choice 
was offered. I dont  think its likely it would have been added if she hadnt chosen it.
Although Lloyds doesnt know  for sure how the PPI was sold,  it has accepted  that it would 
have personally  recommended  the PPI to Miss W. This places a greater responsibility on 
Lloyds to take steps to make sure it was right for Miss W, so I think  this is a fair way to 
approach the issue. 
Looking at Miss Ws circumstances at the time of sale I think the policy  was right for her. I 
say this because:
Miss W was eligible for the policy and wouldnt  have been affected  by any of the 
terms which might have  made it more difficult for her to make  a successful claim, 
such as those related  to self-employment  or existing  medical  conditions;
Ref: DRN41870402Miss W says she would have received six months full sick pay from her employer. 
But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for up to 12 
months at a time if she was too ill to work;
Miss W would likely have received some statutory redundancy pay, but the policy  
would have paid out in addition  to this leaving her redundancy pay to cover  other 
uninsured expenses;
Miss W says she had substantial savings she could have used to pay her credit card. 
But she has also told us she only had £500. While I appreciate  that substantial is 
open to personal  interpretation, I dont think this would have been enough to cover all 
her expenses  for very long if she couldnt work. So the policy would still have offered 
a useful benefit;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar products on the market around 
the same  time. It was flexible as it could be cancelled at any time without penalty.
Miss W says she wasnt given enough  information about the policy  and wouldnt have taken 
the policy at all if shed  understood  it. It is not clear  how Miss W can be sure she didnt get 
the right information  at the time when she has also told this service she has no recollection 
of when or how the policy was sold. But I dont think even if Miss W had been  given  all the 
information she required that she would have made a different decision about buying  it. I say 
this because the policy was suitable  for her in the way Ive described above.
So I dont  think Miss W lost out as a result of anything Lloyds might  have  done  wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint so it follows that Lloyds Bank  Plc doesnt  have to pay 
any compensation,
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4187040