K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc closed his business account by mistake, 
and took too long to re-open it.
background
Mr R sold his business in the summer of 2018,  but he kept his business account  open after 
that, to receive  late payments from former customers and also to pay some  standing orders, 
including his car insurance. In December NatWest closed the account  without warning, and it 
is not in dispute that this was a mistake.  (NatWest was supposed to close  another  account.)
Mr R discovered  the account had been closed four days later, and he made several  calls to 
NatWest to get it re-instated,  which took another seven days. In the meantime, the calls 
were unproductive and frustrating. But the greatest inconvenience was that his car insurance  
company cancelled his policy without warning, because his standing  order  had been 
cancelled. Mr R got his policy  reinstated, but only after he had been  driving  uninsured for two 
days. He was also worried that HMRC  might infer that he had been committing fraud  or 
money laundering, by moving the balance of his business account to a personal account.
Mr R complained to NatWest, apologised and offered him compensation of £302.40 for his 
lost time and for the cost of his calls. Mr R was not satisfied with this amount, and so he 
brought this complaint to our Service. He wanted four times his annual account  fee. But our 
investigator thought  that NatWests offer was fair. He said that the insurance  company was 
supposed to have given Mr R seven days notice that it was cancelling his policy,  but had 
failed to do so, and so it was not NatWests fault that Mr R had been driving without 
insurance. NatWests apology and offer would serve  as evidence to allay any suspicions the 
taxman might have.
Mr R did not accept that decision. He said NatWest had caused him a lot of stress,  and he 
had expected our Service  to take  the bank to task. He asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not my role to punish NatWest for its mistakes, but only to decide what  is fair 
compensation for Mr Rs inconvenience. So I would not simply take the annual account fee 
and multiply it by four, or any similar  process,  to arrive at a figure.
NatWests approach was to offer Mr R £110 for his inconvenience generally, another £10 an 
hour for his time (16 hours, so £160), and the rest was the cost of his phone calls.
If Mr R had still been trading and his business  had suffered,  I would also require NatWest to 
pay compensation for that, but as I have said, the business was no longer operating.
If I had thought that it was reasonably foreseeable that Mr Rs car insurance company would 
immediately cancel his policy  without notice, leading to him driving while uninsured,  I would 
have awarded  further compensation for that. But I dont think NatWest could be expected to 
have foreseen  that. Most car insurance  companies wont  instantly cancel a policy  on the first 
missed payment, and most will give seven  days notice before cancelling.
Ref: DRN44383562So while I appreciate that the wrong account was closed, that it took too long to re-open it 
again, and that the matter was stressful for Mr R while it was going on, I regret  to tell him 
that I think £270 plus the cost of his phone calls is in line with what  our Service would 
typically award.
my final decision
So my decision is that the offer made by National Westminster Bank Plc (to pay Mr R 
£302.40) is a fair one, and I do not require it to do more. I leave it to Mr R to decide  whether 
he now wishes to accept  it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4438356