K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains on behalf  of The Estate  of Mrs W that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC didnt share  
the death certificate between different parts of the organisation. 
background 
In June 2018, in his role as executor of the estate, Mr W used the Death Notification Service  
to let various businesses  know  that Mrs W had passed  away. Mr W was subsequently asked 
to provide a copy  of the death  certificate  to Barclays  which he did. Barclays returned  the 
death certificate to Mr W a short time later. 
Mr Ws explained that he didnt hear back from Barclays about his late wifes investment 
account so called and spoke to a number of people.  Mr W was able to discuss the situation 
with someone in the investment area of the organisation  who asked him to resubmit  the 
death certificate as it hadnt been shared by the retail business.  Mr W re-sent the document 
as requested.
Mr W also raised a complaint as he feels Barclays should be able to share this type of 
information between  the different parts of the bank. 
Barclays responded in August 2018 and said that the investment side of the business was a 
separate legal  entity. As a result, its not informed by Barclays bereavement  team when a 
customer passes away. 
Barclays apologised for the service  provided and said Mr Ws concerns would be made 
known to the senior management team. Barclays also offered £200 for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Mr W referred his complaint to this service and has told us hes concerned the issue  will 
affect other  people already going through a difficult time. When  we set the case  up an 
investigator emailed Mr W and explained this service cant tell a business to change a policy 
or internal process. An adjudicator then looked  at the complaint but also said that we cant  
tell Barclays to change  the way it operates.  The adjudicator  thought Barclays  offer of £200  
was fair so didnt ask it to take any further  action. 
Mr W asked for the complaint to be appealed so its been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from Mr Ws correspondence to date that hes frustrated by the limits of this 
service. I appreciate that Mr W wants us to do something that will effect a real change at 
Barclays but as the adjudicators said, thats not something we have  the power to do. As a 
service we can only look at individual complaints, the rules under which we operate  dont 
allow us to look at concerns  about  a group of customers. If we find that a business has made  
an error well tell it how to put things  right for that specific complaint.  And if we think  it hasnt 
made a mistake or has dealt with a complaint  fairly well explain why to the consumer. 
Ref: DRN40157282In this case, Barclays says that it doesnt  currently share this type of information with the 
investment side of the business because its a separate legal entity. I appreciate  Mr Ws 
comments that the businesses involved are part of the same  group. And while  that may be 
the case, Barclays Bank UK Plc is a separate business to the investment element that looks 
after asset management. Both businesses are limited in their own right and are regulated  by 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  separately. 
Barclays has explained that its policy is that the bereavement team doesnt currently  share  
information with the investment area. I know the adjudicators made this point but I think its 
important  as a service  we dont have the powers to tell Barclays to change the way it 
operates. We arent the regulator, thats the role of the FCA, and we cant force  a business 
to do things differently.  Mr W says weve failed to use our influence with Barclays  to achieve 
some changes but, as Ive said, we cant tell a business to change the way it operates. 
In this case, The Estate of Mrs W complains that Barclays failed to share important  
information. Barclays has apologised for the inconvenience that caused and agreed  to 
highlight the issue  internally. Barclays also offered £200 to reflect the inconvenience caused 
and I think thats  fair in all the circumstances. I understand this complaint wasnt  about  
financial compensation and I leave it to Mr W to decide whether to accept the offer on behalf 
of his late wifes estate.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the £200  Barclays  Bank UK Plc has 
already offered. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required  to ask 
Mr W on behalf of The Estate of Mrs W to accept  or reject my decision before 
19 March 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4015728