K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  the mobile  handset she acquired  under a point of sale loan provided by 
Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited (Virgin) is not of satisfactory quality. She also 
complains about  customer service she received. 
background
In April 2018 Ms B acquired a new mobile  handset financed  by a fixed  term loan agreement 
with Virgin. In early September the handset stopped working. Ms B sent it to Virgin  on 6 
September and was initially  told there was a fault with the battery. There  followed  a request 
from Virgin to switch  off the mobile phone location tracker which was required before it would 
inspect the handset. Ms B said Virgin called  on 25 September to say that as the handset had 
been scratched  it was no longer covered by warranty  so the cost of repair would be £167.79. 
Ms B complained to Virgin. 
Virgin said its repair company had advised that the handset was received damaged which 
took it out of warranty.  It said the standard repair charge was correct. It acknowledged  there  
had been a delay in providing a resolution  and poor customer service so it agreed  to cover 
half the repair charge,  £82.89, as a gesture  of goodwill. 
Ms B did not accept  this and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator first suggested to Virgin that it arrange for Ms Bs handset to go back to its 
engineers with a view to getting the issue with the battery fixed; and to pay for the fix unless  
its engineers could support an argument  that the fault wasnt  inherent or developing at the 
point of sale. Virgin said it was experienced at handling handsets and it thought  it unlikely it 
would be damaged on site. It said the engineers report did not address the battery issue as 
the damage on the handset took it outside the warranty. And without the warranty  it was 
unable to open the handset until it agreed with the customer the charges involved.
Virgin said the damage on the handset would suggest the battery  problems may have  
caused from being dropped and that this was more likely than providing a faulty  handset in 
the first place or damaging the handset in its care. It offered £30 for poor customer service.
The investigator put a second offer to Virgin but Virgin maintained  the handset was out of 
warranty due to mishandling. It reiterated  that £30 was its final offer. Our investigator agreed 
with Virgin  that the damage was unlikely to have been caused  by the repair  warehouse and 
invited Ms B to arrange for an independent inspection of the handset. 
There was some confusion between our service  and Virgin  as to what  Virgin was offering. 
The investigator first thought the offer of £30 was over and above  the previous offer to pay 
half the repair cost.  Virgin did not agree to that. It said the offer made originally  was subject 
to acceptance  at that time and no longer stood. Ms B did not accept £30 was enough 
compensation. Both parties asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to 
Ms B and Virgin on 4 April 2019.  I said: 
Under relevant  legislation if the mobile  handset  acquired through  the point of sale loan was 
not of satisfactory  quality  at the point  of sale it would be a breach of contract. The law says 
that Virgin as the finance  provider can be held liable for this breach of contract. I have to 
Ref: DRN49514382take account of relevant law in deciding what is fair and reasonable. If I found that the 
handset was of unsatisfactory quality,  it would be fair and reasonable to hold Virgin 
responsible for this.
was the phone of satisfactory  quality at the point of purchase?
Its generally accepted  that there  is a problem with the handset.  Its stopped working due to a 
problem inside the handset, possibly the battery.  Virgin has said that the scratches  to the 
surface of the handset have invalidated the warranty so it is unable to open the handset  
without getting  agreement from the customer to pay for the repair.  The warranty is provided 
by the handset manufacturer. It says:
This warranty does not apply: 
(b) to cosmetic damage, including  but not limited to scratches, dents and broken 
plastic on ports unless failure has occurred due to a defect in materials or 
workmanship;
(d) to damage caused by accident, abuse,  misuse, fire, liquid contact, earthquake or 
other external cause
Ive looked at the contact notes provided  by Virgin at the time Ms B sent her handset into 
repair. It repeats a message several  times:
Weve been trying to get in touch  about  your recent  mobile repair, but havent  had 
much luck. We wanted to let you know that one of our technicians has found the 
fault, but that unfortunately the repair needed isnt covered by your handsets  
warranty.
Description of damage: scratches on screen
It appears that at first Virgins technicians had identified the fault with the handset to be 
repaired were scratches  and not the fact the handset itself wasnt  working as it should. Later 
in the notes, relating to a handset call it says:
confirmed the scratches are too deep  .. warranty is void 
and 
handset is already out of warranty since theres  a scratch on it
This is also confirmed on the repair report. It is unclear to me how Virgin is interpreting the 
warranty. It first says the damage  reported is a scratch.  This is incorrect as Ms B reported 
the handset had stopped working.  It then said it was the wear and tear of the handset that 
deemed it out of warranty. But the language  of the warranty indicates that it doesnt apply to 
damage caused by accident, abuse  or misuse. It doesnt say that the presence of scratches,  
deep or otherwise, voids the warranty for anything else which may go wrong  with a handset. 
Virgin then follows up by saying the evidence of scratches, especially the deep scratch  at the 
bottom, suggest  the damage to the handset  inside was caused by misuse or the handset 
being dropped,  which  would not be covered by the warranty. This is based  on the case  
handlers assumption about  what the repair team found. But Virgin  hasnt opened the phone 
and without doing so it cannot  say exactly what the problem with the handset  is  whether 
inherent, developing or caused by misuse or accident. 
Ive seen photos of the handset, front and back.  There are considerable scratches on the 
back and some scratches on the front including a deep scratch at the bottom. Ms B said they 
Ref: DRN49514383were not there when  she sent the handset.  Virgin has disagreed. It said this kind of damage 
would not have occurred in its repair centre. I must say that Im inclined to agree  that it is 
unlikely these scratches occurred in the repair centre given the nature of them.  Their  
appearance suggests significant  wear and tear. 
Given the handset has stopped working three  months into the contract it is possible there is 
an inherent flaw and that it wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of purchase. But absent 
of an inspection of the handset I have no way of knowing this. Where evidence is missing,  
inconclusive or contradictory I must make my decision based on the balance of probability - 
that is what I consider  most likely to have occurred. 
Im satisfied the appearance of the handset  indicates its possible the problem inside was 
due to misuse of some kind. So in the circumstances,  I think it most likely that the handset  
was damaged at some  point after it was supplied to Ms B and this has contributed to the 
fault. I havent made any finding on what caused the damage.  And theres  nothing  to suggest 
that it was damaged intentionally. So, subject to any further evidence either party  may 
provide, I dont think theres sufficient evidence to show that the handset  wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Ms B.
customer service
Although Im inclined to say that the phone was likely of satisfactory quality I do feel it fair 
and reasonable for Virgin to reinstate its previous offer to pay 50% of the repair fee, £82.89.  
Ms B complained there was a delay in getting  to a resolution. Virgin  accepted there  was a 
delay but said Ms B also contributed to the delay  by not turning off her mobile phone 
tracking. Im not disputing  this but Virgin first offered to cover half the repair cost £82.89 as a 
goodwill gesture. I note £82.89 is slightly less than half of the repair cost.
When Ms B declined this offer and brought her complaint to this service  Virgin  told us this 
offer was no longer valid. Its final offer to Ms B was £30 for poor customer  service. It said the 
message to the customer was clearly laid out in the final response, so it was confused as to 
why Ms B feels the offer in the final response letter would remain open. It said the evidence  
is too clear cut for it to pay the initial  amount  offered. But the offer to pay half the repair  cost 
was not made on the basis of the evidence or reason  why the repair had to be made  in the 
first place. The offer in the final response  said:
We do acknowledge  that there was a delay in providing resolution and poor service 
which is why we are offering to cover half the repair charge.
And I dont  agree that the message to Ms B was clearly laid out in the final response.  It 
makes no mention of the offer expiring should  Ms B take her complaint further. So I dont 
think its fair or reasonable for Virgin to withdraw  that offer on the basis of the evidence 
concerned with whether or not the phone is out of warranty or not. It follows then that Virgin  
would not have to pay the additional £30.
Both Ms B and Virgin accepted the provisional  findings. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN49514384As both parties accepted my provisional  decision I see no reason to depart from its 
conclusions.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Virgin Media  Mobile Finance Limited must reinstate its offer to pay 
£82.89 of the repair charge. This means Ms B will have to pay £84.90  before the repair is 
carried out. 
For the avoidance of doubt I would not be instructing it to pay the £30 it later offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4951438