K820x#14complaint
This compliant is about a mortgage Mr F used to hold with Topaz Finance Limited. He sold 
the property and repaid the mortgage  in October  2017. Mr F is unhappy with various  charges 
that Topaz  debited to the mortgage account,  thus increasing the amount he paid to redeem 
it.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented,  
using my own words to do so. No discourtesys  intended by that. Its a reflection  of the 
informal service  we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont  be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. This 
approach is consistent  with what  our enabling legislation  requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome. Another reason I 
have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumer when my 
decision is published. 
Mr F originally took the mortgage out with a different lender, and later transferred to Topaz, 
under the trading name  Melanite Mortgages. Mr F had been  in arrears for several years, due 
to long-term financial  difficulties caused  by disruption to his employment and income.  As the 
arrears gradually worsened, Topaz initiated its recoveries process,  instructing a firm of 
solicitors Ill call T.
Various visits to the property by field agents established that Mr F wasnt living there, but 
was renting it out. Topaz treated this as a breach of the mortgage conditions,  and appointed 
Law of Property Act (LPA) Receivers to manage  the property. Meanwhile, Mr F had been 
trying to sell the property and succeeded in doing so in October  2017. 
After redemption, Mr F complained about the following items that had been added to the 
mortgage account;
insurance           £65.16
sundry debits       £630.00
two arrears fees           £80.00
solicitors costs £5,575.00
redemption administration fee    £125.00.
Topaz rejected  the complaint and Mr F referred  it to us. Hes represented by 
Citizens Advice. Our investigator  considered all of the various fees and charges, concluding 
that theyd been applied  fairly. Mr F has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Ref: DRN43128212Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider  it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  context.  My 
remit is to take an overview  and decide  whats fair in the round.
Ill deal with the lesser  amounts first, starting with the insurance charge of £65.16.  Lenders  
require properties  in mortgage to them to be insured. Occasionally, if a lender is unsure that 
its borrower has the necessary cover in place, it will effect cover of its own. This is known  as 
lender-only insurance (LOI).  Topaz did that for three months in 2017, and Im satisfied it 
was entitled to do so. Its not uncommon also for lenders to charge an administration fee in 
connection with LOI, and in Mr Fs case, that was the £30 element of the £630 in sundry 
debits. Ill address the other £600  in due course.
The application of a redemption administration fee is an industry-wide norm,  and is typically 
provided for in the mortgage contract  and the associated  tariff of charges. Topaz charges 
£125, which is broadly consistent with what other lenders charge. It was within its rights to 
charge this fee when Mr F repaid his mortgage, and didnt treat him unfairly  by doing so
Regarding the arrears  fees, the starting point  is that lenders generally are permitted under 
the mortgage agreement to apply  fees and charges to cover the additional cost of 
administering an account that is in arrears.  Such  charges  are typically set out in the afore-
mentioned tariff of charges.  
But lenders  also have a duty to treat customers fairly, and even where  fees have been 
applied in accordance with the account terms and the tariff of charges, well still give 
separate consideration to whether theyve been applied fairly.  In Mr Fs case  two fees, of 
£40 each, were applied when no payment was received  in May and August 2017 
respectively. I find both fees to have been  fairly  charged.
Whilst the sums are much greater (£5,575)  the same broad approach  applies  to the legal 
costs Topaz  charged to Mr Fs mortgage  accounts  for the work that T did as part of the 
recoveries process. The underlying contract  allows it to debit legal costs  to the mortgage 
account, provided that they are a fair reflection of the work carried out. Ive seen the 
invoices, and breakdowns of the work carried out in respect of them. Overall, Im satisfied 
Topaz didnt treat Mr F unreasonably  by adding the costs  to his mortgage  account.
I said Id come back to the residual  £600 of sundry debits. That description  isnt particularly 
helpful, as it gives  a borrower little clue as to what the charge was for. The reality  is, 
however, that it was the cost of instructing the LPA Receivers. Topazs decision to appoint 
the Receivers looks to me like a legitimate exercise of commercial  judgement,  taken after 
receiving persuasive evidence that Mr F had created an unauthorised tenancy  in breach of 
the mortgage conditions. Mr F says the occupant wasnt his tenant  but his girlfriend. That 
may be so, but the occupant told one of Topazs  field agents she was his tenant.
Ref: DRN43128213Citizens Advice, on Mr Fs behalf,  has argued that the Receivers  were  Topazs  agent,  such 
that they are accountable for the Receivers  actions, and challenged our investigator to 
explain why he believed  the Receivers were  Mr Fs agent. Its not a question of what the 
investigator (or I for that matter)  believes;  its the law, and has been since  the legislation was 
enacted in 1925. It means Im unable  to consider any concerns Mr F may have about the 
actions of the LPA Receivers, including how much  they charge,  because they arent  covered 
by the jurisdictional  scope  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F (or Citizens  
Advice on his behalf)  to accept or reject my decision  before 28 February 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4312821