K820x#14complaint
Ms Ts complaint is about the renewal of a home emergency insurance  policy with 
OVO (S) Home  Services Limited, trading as SSE Home Services Limited.
background
In July 2017, Ms T took out a boiler rescue product with SSE. This provided a one-off repair  
of her boiler  at no charge,  provided  she took a 12 month insurance  policy  at the same  time. 
The policy consists of two parts, one the boiler breakdown insurance contract and the boiler 
service contract. Both parts of the contract  were  to last for 12 months. The last premium for 
that policy year was due on 20 July 2018.  
When the contracts were  due to be renewed,  they renewed automatically. Ms T is unhappy 
with this and says she tried several  times to call and cancel the contracts  but could never get 
through. Ms T says she therefore cancelled her direct debit instruction.
SSE says that the direct debit instruction was cancelled before  the last payment for the 
policy year 2017  to 2018 had been taken and so Ms T owes  a months  premium  for that 
year. It also says that fees apply for the cancellation  of the policy  for the year July 2018  
2019 and it carried  out an annual boiler service within the new policy year (2018-2019) in 
August 2018.  
SSE therefore says Ms T needs to refund the cost of the service (£87.84) and pay a 
cancellation fee for the insurance  policy of £21.73. It says it has waived the £5 administration  
charge and the £16.90  premium for July 2018  (i.e. the last months  premium  for the 2017-
2018 policy year  only £10.80 of this is for the insurance policy). SSE wrote  to Ms T on 
12 September 2018 to say it had not been able to collect the direct  debits and so was 
cancelling the policy, in line with the terms of the policy. It also said that there was a balance  
of £109.57 to pay (£87.84 for the service  contract  and £21.73 for the insurance contract).
SSE also wrote to Ms T on 26 September, 10 October and 22 October 2018 but she did not 
respond to these letters. 
Ms T is very unhappy about this and has made  a number  of submissions, which Ive 
summarised below: 
she is being harassed for payment  for services she has not asked  for or received.
She only wanted the policy for one year to cover a repair of her boiler, as she 
couldnt afford to pay for it in one go. 
When she received the renewal  documents she tried to call but the premium rate 
number was never answered, so she cancelled the direct  debit.  No other option to 
cancel was provided. 
Insurers should not auto-renew without clear  consent from a customer. 
After a two month delay the engineer serviced  her boiler but then SSE charged her 
for that when it was paid for as part of the price  for the previous year.  
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. He said that we could only consider the 
insurance policy and not the charges being  made for the annual  service policy, so he could 
not consider whether it was reasonable for SSE to try and charge for the service carried out 
in August 2018. He concluded that it would be reasonable for Ms T to pay for the last month 
of the 2017/2018  policy  (i.e.£10.80) and the first month of the 2018/2019 policy  (i.e. £12.96)  
Ref: DRN49308632as she had a number of methods with which she could have cancelled cover and, save  for 
calling SSE, she didnt  use these methods.  The adjudicator  said this means that Ms T owes  
£23.76 for the two missed  payments,  so he thought  the £21.73  requested by SSE for the 
insurance policy was fair and reasonable. 
Ms T does not accept the adjudicators assessment. She says we are biased  as we are paid 
for by SSE and it is a conflict of interest. She is also in financial  difficulties.  
As the adjudicator was unable to resolve  the complaint, it has been passed to me.  
my findings
As the adjudicator explained,  we arent  able to consider every complaint thats brought  to
us. Were governed  by rules called the DISP Rules, which can be found in the Financial
Conduct Authoritys  (FCAs) Handbook.  These  rules  detail  which businesses we can
consider a complaint against and they also detail what type of complaints  we can look at.
The DISP  rules limit what we can look at by reference to the type of activity  the business  
was doing which led to the complaint. In order  for us to look at a complaint, it has to be about  
an activity, which the DISP rules say is a regulated activity.  The activities  listed as regulated  
activities dont include providing  services for a boiler, boiler installation, boiler repairs or a 
service agreement, where these are not being done under an insurance policy.  Regulated  
activities do include effecting  and carrying  out a contract of insurance, among other things.
What this means is that I can consider  the part of Ms Ts complaint that relates to the 
insurance contract (whether any premiums  are due for the 2017-2018 and 2018 -2019 policy 
years and whether  SSE is entitled to charge a cancellation fee) but not the part of Ms Ts 
complaint that relates to the service contract  (so I cant  consider whether it is fair or 
reasonable for Ms T to pay the £87.84 for the service in August 2018).
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments in relation to the insurance  
complaint, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We are an independent service free for consumers to use. The reason we are able to 
provide a free service  to consumers, is because we are funded  by the financial services  
industry. Some of this funding is through levies and some  funding comes from fees charged  
for each  case.  The fee is the same, regardless of the outcome of the case.  We are entirely  
independent and have to consider what I consider is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case,  having regard to the law, relevant regulations and industry 
practice. Being independent also means  that we are not partial to any one party, so in 
determining what is fair and reasonable we have to take account  of whats fair and 
reasonable to both parties. We are not a consumer  champion. 
I understand Ms T is in financial difficulties however, my remit is to determine whether SSE 
has acted fairly and reasonably in relation to the insurance policy  it provided  and whether 
any monies are owed. 
It is clear that as Ms T had cancelled her direct debit prior to the end of the 2017/2018  policy  
and one premium  was still owed. However, SSE agreed to waive that premium,  which  
seems reasonable  to me. 
SSE says the policy then renewed  and two more premiums were  missed. 
Ref: DRN49308633Ms Ts policy  says that unless she tells SSE otherwise, it will automatically  renew  at the end 
of the policy  year. This is not an uncommon arrangement  and is not inherently unfair, 
provided consumers  are made aware of it. I am satisfied that Ms T was made aware  in 
sufficient time that her policy would automatically renew in July 2018.  Ill explain why. 
SSE sent the renewal documents to Ms T on 3 July 2018. The policy was due to renew  on 
24 July 2018.  It provided clear information about the premium for the year and that this 
would renew automatically unless she contacted it. It also said that she could cancel within  
14 days of the renewal date - so she had until 7 August  2018  to do so: Simply give us a call 
or return the cancellation  form found  within the enclosed booklet.  Both the July 2017 and 
July 2018 documents provided  four telephone numbers, an email  address and a postal 
address to use if a customer wanted to cancel the policy.  
Ms T says she tried to call but was unable to get through, so she cancelled her direct  debit  
but began  to receive demands for payment to be made. She did not apparently write and 
email or complete the cancellation form. I am not therefore persuaded that it was 
unreasonable for SSE to have tried to renew the policy cover. 
However, having said that I do not consider that SSE is entitled to any premiums for the 
2018-2019 policy year after the renewal  date. I say this because while the policy terms make 
clear that cancelling the direct debit mid-term will not cancel the cover and SSE is still 
entitled to any premiums, the position  is not the same at renewal. 
The key facts sheet  sent to Ms T with the welcome  letter in July 2017, also states:
If for any reason we are unable to take a payment for automatic renewal you will no longer 
be covered and your policy will be cancelled with immediate effect.
The policy document also says: If you pay by Direct  Debit, credit  /debit card we will 
automatically renew your Agreement  after this time,  unless you tell us before the renewal 
date you do not want to renew. If for any reason we are unable to take a payment for 
renewal then you will no longer be covered until we receive payment
You will be responsible for the cost of the product until the date the product ceases, either at 
renewal date or if you cancel before renewal date and you will be responsible  for paying the 
termination charge.  
In my opinion therefore it is clear  that, as SSE was unable  to take any payment for the new 
policy year 2018- 2019, the policy ceased  at the end of the previous policy  year. On the 
basis of the SSEs own terms  and conditions, cover ceased at the end of the 2017-2018 
policy year and it is not therefore  entitled to any payment for 2018-2019. It cannot  therefore 
ask for the £21.73 for the two monthly premiums  for that year. It has already waived the last 
premium due for the previous  year.  I do not therefore consider that anything  is due for the 
insurance cover. 
As mentioned above, I am not however able to make any determination about the service 
contract and whether it is fair for Ms T to be charged  for the service of her boiler  in 
August 2018.
Ref: DRN49308634my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against OVO  (S) Home Services Limited, trading as 
SSE Home  Services Limited. It is my decision that it cannot require Ms T to pay the £21.73 
(or any other amount) towards the insurance policy for 2017-2018  or 2018-2019. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4930863