K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains that the vehicle she acquired  through a conditional sale agreement 
financed by Close Brothers Limited  trading  as Close Brothers  Motor  Finance was not of 
satisfactory quality. She wants to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
background
Miss T tells us she acquired the vehicle in July 2018 from a dealer Ill refer to as "H". She 
says she experienced  problems  after about  three  weeks when the vehicle broke down. Miss 
T reports  the car started to become "jerky"  and the gearbox engaged neutral without 
warning. Miss T says she had a diagnostic report done which showed 21 error  codes.  She 
says that the vehicle  was then returned  to H who later informed her it had cleaned the diesel 
particulate filter (DPF). But a few days later she reported a further breakdown. Miss T says H 
inspected the vehicle and couldnt find the faults about which she was complaining.  But that 
it mentioned a fuel filter might be required and this was later replaced. She says that CBMF  
then arranged for the vehicle to be independently  inspected and again no faults  were  found. 
Following this inspection  she states that one of the same warning lights  came  on but she 
was able to drive home. Miss T reports that since collecting the vehicle on 8 November 2018 
its broken down again with the same  symptoms. And on 14 November it went  into neutral 
whilst showing  a warning sign (engine fault). Miss T now wants to reject the vehicle and end 
the finance agreement.
CBMF told us that Miss T had complained to H and it (H) had cleared the DPF. And it said 
an independent inspection of the vehicle in October  2018 by a company Ill call "D" had not 
identified any faults.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 24 February  2020.  I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint. And that I thought  Miss T should be permitted to reject the vehicle and 
end the agreement. Since then Miss T hasnt replied.  CBMF responded saying it was 
disappointed and felt the engineers report had been  overlooked in favour  of the consumers 
testimony. I thank CBMF for its reply. But as no new information has been supplied Im not 
minded to change  my provisional decision. Its largely repeated  in my final decision which is 
set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Miss T has experienced  problems with this vehicle. Unfortunately,  with older, 
high mileage vehicles  theres always a greater  risk of something  going wrong. And at the 
time it was acquired by Miss T the vehicle was around 10 years old with over 110,000 miles 
covered.
Ref: DRN42636092Miss Ts conditional sale agreement is a regulated  consumer credit  agreement and our 
service is able to consider  complaints  relating to it. CBMF supplied the vehicle and its 
therefore responsible for a complaint about the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the 
law - directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights 
Act 2015 (CRA). This states that in order to conform to contract goods have to be of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. And satisfactory quality is defined  as being what a 
reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory  having regard for issues  which can 
include, but are not limited to, the age of the goods and previous use. It also includes an 
element of durability  - how long goods might  reasonably be expected to last.
I can see that Miss T made various complaints about the vehicle from an early  stage.  This 
included stating the vehicle was "jerky  or jittery" and lost power. And I can see the vehicle 
was examined in August 2018  by H. It seems the DPF had become blocked and it was 
cleared. And the fuel filter was also replaced.  Theres reference to mechanics  thinking the 
problems may be connected  with the vehicle being  driven with low fuel levels and/or low 
mileage being  covered.  Both of which issues Miss T disputed.
Eventually the vehicle  was inspected on three  separate  occasions  after repairs  had been 
carried out by H. On 20 September 2018 Miss T had a diagnostics  check carried  out by a 
garage Ill refer to as "R". The invoice  stated the vehicle had the same faults as had 
supposedly been rectified previously. And it also identified that the mileage shown in the 
gearbox engine  control  unit (ECU)  differed  from the odometer. It suggested  that the 
instrument cluster had been  switched off at some point. Unfortunately, no actual details of 
the discrepancy have  been provided  so Im unable to say if this would amount to a material 
misrepresentation of the mileage. If Miss T is able to supply this information  Ill take it into 
account when  I issue my final decision.
On 20 October the vehicle  was given another diagnostic check by a firm Ill refer to as "P". 
This check revealed no fault codes were present at the time.
Finally, on 31 October the vehicle  was examined  by an independent expert from D. Ds 
report didnt identify any faults with the vehicle. In particular it said it had found no issues 
with either  the DPF or the gear change. And during a road test it said the vehicle  had 
performed as "a vehicle  of its age and mileage" . The mileage recorded at the time of Ds 
inspection was 113,067.
Miss T collected the vehicle on or around  8 November. She reported  that one of the same  
fault codes as had previously been identified was showing. And she says she left a voicemail 
with CBMF to the effect that the vehicle drove back fine but with the code displayed. After  a 
few days she states the vehicle  again broke down and that a fault code was showing "engine 
fault". Shes provided a screen shot which is undated  but displays a warning, "engine fault! 
Reduced power". Miss T made her complaint  to this service on 14 November 2018.
Since making the complaint  Miss T has told us shes  been unable to drive the vehicle. And 
whilst it passed an MOT test on 23 August 2019 I can see the odometer reading is recorded  
as only 113,373  miles.  This is consistent  with the vehicle having  been driven for only a few 
days following Ds inspection.
Ref: DRN42636093In its response to my provisional decision,  CBMF  suggested Id overlooked the findings of 
Ds report. Im not sure on what basis it reached  this view as Ive acknowledged both the 
detail and conclusions  of Ds report.  And prior to issuing my provisional decision  I asked  
CBMF why the latest reported apparent fault wasnt  followed up. It accepted  that a further 
inspection wouldve been beneficial at the time so D couldve been asked to examine the 
vehicle again.  But it said the screenshot didnt definitely confirm theres a fault present where 
the same  components have failed. Or when those faults arose  and what caused them. And it 
stated that it couldnt  use the photographs as factual  evidence as they werent time stamped. 
It also said that at the same time as Miss T had provided the screenshot shed said the 
matter was with this service.
Ive considered these  points. But I dont  think they provide  a plausible  reason as to why no 
action was taken.  I wouldnt expect CBMF simply to accept this information.  But I cant see 
why it couldnt  ask Miss T for further  clarification and/or  timed  screen shots.  Or it couldve 
asked D to comment on the basis of that information which  had been  provided. 
When Miss T reported the latest fault with the vehicle  it was still within six months  of supply.  
Under the CRA, if goods  are shown not to conform to contract within  the first six months 
following supply its presumed they werent  of satisfactory quality at the point of supply - 
unless its shown otherwise. Given the plausible evidence of the vehicle again having  faults  - 
whether or not the same as previously reported  doesnt really change  things  - Id have 
expected CBMF to have  made more enquires and if necessary arrange a further  inspection.  
The fact that a complaint was with this service doesnt prevent this as information can be 
provided at anytime  up to a date a decision is issued.
Where information is unclear, incomplete or contradictory - as some of it is here - Im 
required to reach my decision on the balance of probabilities.
On that basis I find that its more  probable  than not that the latest reported faults meant  the 
vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  That the symptoms appear to be 
similar to those previously reported makes it more likely that previous issues  either havent 
been accurately  diagnosed previously and/or repairs have failed. Its improbable that Miss T 
wouldnt have driven the vehicle for so long if that had been  reasonably  possible. I think its 
reasonable that Miss T should now be able to reject  the vehicle. 
In summary,  this vehicle  appears to have experienced  various issues  which  have affected its 
performance from the outset of the agreement. Theres evidence in the form of a current 
fault warning that issues which prevent the vehicle from being driven - or at least to perform  
to a satisfactory standard  - are still present. Although the latest inspection  by D showed the 
vehicle was free from faults that report was compiled before the latest reported breakdown.  
As that still fell within six months of supply it remains for CBMF to show the vehicle 
conformed to contract at the point of supply. In the absence of this, Miss T should  now be 
able to exercise the right to reject  the vehicle.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  the complaint.
I now require Close Brothers  Limited  trading as Close  Brothers Motor Finance to take the 
following action:
Ref: DRN426360941.End the agreement with nothing further  for Miss T to pay from 14 November  2018  - 
this is subject to payments up to that time being up to date;
2.Arrange for the collection of the vehicle at no cost to Miss T;
3.Refund Miss Ts deposit of £2,345.37;
4.Refund any payments  made for any period  after 14 November 2018;
5.Pay Miss T £300 for distress and inconvenience caused by the loss of use of the 
vehicle;
6.Arrange to have  details of the agreement  removed  from Miss Ts credit  file.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to sums arising from 3 and 4 
above from date of payment to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4263609