K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about two instalment loans Trusted Cash Limited (TCL) T/A Trusted 
Quid lent to him. He has said he was struggling financially at the time and had TCL carried  
out sufficient checks, it wouldnt  have lent to him. Mr P has also said that on one occasion, 
TCL took out more than the agreed monthly  loan repayment from his account.
background
Mr P took out two loans with TCL between August 2017 and July 2018. Both loans were 
instalment loans due to be repaid  over six instalments. The first loan was for £100 and Mr P 
was due to repay £46.31, £36.17, £32.27, £27.59,  £25.52  and £20.42. Mr P repaid this loan 
in February 2018.  
A few days  after repaying this loan, Mr P took out his second loan for £600. This loan was 
also due to be repaid in six monthly  instalments as follows;  £184.08, £228.39, £193.32, 
£172.25, £146.82, £123.30.  Mr P repaid this loan in July 2018.
When Mr P complained to TCL, it didnt uphold his complaint, it said it carried  out sufficient 
checks before lending both loans and there  was nothing from those checks  that showed  
Mr P was unable to afford the loans.
Unhappy with TCLs response, Mr P brought his complaint to this service where it was 
looked by one of our adjudicators. Our adjudicator thought that TCLs checks went far 
enough before lending  both loans and so didnt  recommend that Mr Ps complaint should be 
upheld. Our adjudicator also thought  that TCL didnt do anything wrong by debiting  Mr Ps 
account with over £400 in one month as this included the missed payment from the previous 
month.
Mr P didnt agree with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to look into his 
complaint. And so this complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
At the time of the loans, this type of borrowing was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules in CONC 5.2 at the time of the loans stated that lenders must  
consider the potential for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the information  of 
which the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit  agreement is to be made; and the 
ability of the customer  to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the regulated 
credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end agreement, to make  
repayments within a reasonable period. 
In short,  TCL had to carry out customer focused checks  to determine whether Mr P could 
sustainably afford to make each  repayment when it fell due over the entire term of each loan, 
before agreeing to lend. 
Ref: DRN46982652what checks did TCL carry  out?
TCL has said that it searched Mr Ps credit file, it hasnt  provided the results from its search 
but has said there were  no defaults  or county  court judgements (CCJs)  within the last six 
months. Mr P has provided a copy of his file and I can see that there was a registered  
default on his file in 2015  about two years before took out his first loan. I wouldnt have 
expected TCL to automatically decline his loan applications  because of this as it was on the 
file from a long time ago. Aside from the default  in 2015, there were no other  defaults  or 
county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on Mr Ps file. 
TCL also checked Mr Ps income which was declared as £2,000 at the time of both loans. 
And TCL checked  Mr Ps monthly  outgoings  including his other short term loan 
commitments. For loan 1 Mr Ps expenses totalled  £835 which  included  rent £150, 
housekeeping £150, travel £75, credit card £100, payday loans £200, other expenses  £160. 
For loan 2 Mr Ps expenses totalled  £1,225,  this included rent £150, housekeeping £100, 
phone £75, travel £100,  car £200,  credit  card £100, payday loans £200  and other  expenses  
£200.
were the checks sufficient/proportionate?
Mr Ps first loan was for £100  and he was due to repay a maximum of £46.31.  This was 
Mr Ps first loan with TCL and the maximum repayment was relatively low compared to his 
declared income of £2,000. From  the information TCL has provided,  I can see that the 
purpose of this loan was recorded as being for unexpected  bills. So TCL in addition to the 
checks listed about also checked why Mr P needed to take out this loan. Overall, I think 
TCLs checks before lending this loan went far enough.
The second  loan was for £600, considerably more than the first loan and I can see that Mr P 
took out this loan within days of repaying  the first loan. The maximum repayment  for this 
loan was £228.39; this maximum repayment  amount was also relatively  low compared  to 
Mr Ps declared income of £2,000. I think TCLs  checks for this loan also went far enough.  
Given what Mr P told TCL about his income and expenses at the time of both loans, his 
disposable income suggests that he could sustainably afford to repay both loans over their 
terms.
A lender of high cost credit  is expected  to carry out proportionate checks, these are not 
prescribed checks but could take into account  things like the loan amount, the repayments, 
term of the loan and information about  the borrower the lender was aware of at the time.       
Given the checks TCL carried out and the information it knew  about Mr P at the time, I cant 
see anything that should have prompted it to carry out further checks or be concerned about 
Mr Ps ability  to repay the loans over the term. 
Ref: DRN46982653Mr P has said TCL didnt request his bank statements or payslips and that he was gambling 
during the time he took these loans. And TCL would have known this had it carried  out 
sufficient checks. But the fact that Mr P was gambling wasnt something he told TCL at the 
time he applied  for the loans. And I dont think its something TCL would have discovered 
from what I consider to be proportionate  checks.  I understand that Mr P feels  strongly about 
these issues but theres  no requirement  on a lender to request bank statements or payslips 
before lending and in the particular circumstances of these loans,  TCL was entitled to rely on 
the information Mr P provided when making  its decision to lend. 
So I cant say TCL lent irresponsibly here because it didnt request Mr Ps bank statements 
or payslips.  
did TCL misuse its payment authority?
Turning to the issue of TCL taking more than the agreed repayment amount  from Mr Ps 
bank account  in June 2018,  Mr P has said it was wrong for TCL to do this. I can see that 
Mr Ps second loan was structured in a way that required him to make six monthly payments.
On 25 May 2018, Mr P was due to repay  £172.25. As the direct debit failed, a charge of £15 
was applied to Mr Ps account and as the payment  still didnt go through on 
6 June 2018, £400.85 was collected on 25 June 2018. This amount included  the outstanding 
payment from the previous month,  the £15 charge  and the payment of £146.82 due in June.
From the information provided, TCL sent Mr P an email in May 2018 stating that his payment  
for that month was now overdue  and the rejected direct debit will lead to one off charge of 
£15. On the same day Mr P responded by saying he will make the payment on 6 June 2018 
as he was getting paid slightly later that month.  Following  this TCL sent Mr P a reminder on 
3 June 2018 that it would be taking payment on 6 June 2018.  The payment again  failed  to 
take on that date and TCL got in contact with Mr P about this  telling him the payment failed 
and there  was still money due.
From this, Im satisfied  that Mr P was aware  hed missed a payment and that he needed to 
bring his account  up to date. Also the credit agreement Mr P signed stated that: If the Direct 
Debit in respect of any repayment  on the Due Date fails then we will attempt to apply for the 
Minimum Payment  using  CPA on the third working  day after the Due Date.  If this attempt 
fails then we will attempt  to collect the payment on the next Due Date by Direct  Debit 
together with the minimum payment due that month  including accrued fees and charges that 
remain unpaid. If the failed payment relates  to the final Due Date  under the Agreement then 
we will attempt to collect the amount  owing  by Direct Debit either  four weeks or one calendar 
month later, depending on the agreed payment cycle. We will again  make reasonable 
attempts to contact  you throughout  this period as in 2.3 above.
Ref: DRN46982654Given the above, I dont think TCL acted unfairly  by taking the outstanding payment - the 
overdue payment  at the same  time.  It only charged  one fee for the declined  direct debit, 
although Mr Ps payment  failed to go through on more than one occasion. And it followed  its 
process which it notified Mr P about  from the outset.  
I realise this will be a disappointing outcome for Mr P, for the reasons Ive given above,  Im 
not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Trusted Cash Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4698265