K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant)  about the claim he 
made for a damaged  laptop under his gadget insurance policy.  He says the laptop  was 
replaced with a refurbished part, which he believes isnt in line with the terms and conditions  
of the policy. Additionally,  he says he wasnt given a choice about  this. 
background
Mr M bought  his laptop in 2013.  He has gadget  insurance for the laptop on his 
Barclays Tech Pack.  Around the beginning of March 2018,  the laptop  stopped  working. 
Mr M went to a computer specialist who said the laptop  couldnt be reset and it was likely the 
issue was the motherboard.
In March 2018, Mr M put in a claim for damage  to his laptop. It was accepted  by Assurant 
and Mr M paid the £75 excess. The laptop  was collected for repair on 7 March 2018 - it was 
completed and returned  to Mr M on 13 March. 
Mr M said the replacement part had a different serial number to that of the original. He said 
Assurant didnt ask him whether he was happy  to accept the replacement and he was never  
given a choice  of a model  that was equivalent  to his specification.  
Mr M made a complaint to Assurant. It said it dealt  with the claim in accordance  with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. It also confirmed it was only required to contact  Mr M if it 
wasnt able to repair the device or provide a replacement with the same make  and model.  As 
Mr Ms laptop was repaired,  it didnt  need  to contact  him. Assurant explained the 
motherboard had to be replaced and as a result the serial number had changed. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said Assurant followed 
the terms of the policy, repaired  the laptop  and she concluded Mr M hadnt been  treated 
unfairly. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigator.  So the complaint has been  passed to me to make a 
decision. 
In summary,  Mr M says:
There is no mention in the terms and conditions of the policy  that only the damaged 
part would be replaced. As far as he was aware,  he was to receive  a replacement 
laptop;
He paid £75 for the excess and it should  have been £50. Hes been overcharged.
Someone elses personal details have been saved on the part that was replaced so it 
auto-enters into any web form he completes;  and 
Hes experienced  further issues with the laptop where  its started to freeze,  overheat  
and make unusual  noises.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN48033122Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy that apply to this complaint. This says:
If your device is damaged or breaks  down we will either:
- repair the device, or
- replace  it with a device of the same make and model.
If we cannot do this you will be given  a choice of models with an equivalent 
specification.
And
Replacements
-Where we replace  the device the replacement may be a remanufactured (not brand 
new) device.
-In the event that we are unable to provide a replacement we will contact you to 
discuss an alternative settlement.
Mr Ms laptop stopped  working and when Assurant  assessed the damage, it decided  the 
motherboard needed  replacing.  Assurant has provided us a copy of the repair  report which  
shows the work was carried  out. It confirms the touchpad, the battery  and the mainboard 
(motherboard) had been  replaced.  My understanding is that the laptop  was restored to 
working order. Im therefore  satisfied  Assurant did what it was required  to do under the terms 
of the policy. Assurant was only required to contact  Mr M if the repair  could not be made.  So 
I wouldnt have expected it to contact Mr M before  replacing the motherboard as the terms of 
the policy say it will only do this if it cant provide a repair/replacement. As it wasnt a 
requirement for Assurant  to contact Mr M, Im not persuaded  that Assurant acted 
unreasonably by not doing so. 
Mr M says the replacement part had a different serial number than before. The part was 
actually replaced  so I cant see why Mr M would  think  this was unusual.  Assurant has 
reassured Mr M it can provide him with written  documentation  that the serial number 
changed as a result of the repair if he wants this - I think this is reasonable. I also cant  see 
that Mr M has yet asked for this. 
Since the complaint was referred  to us, Mr M has said the laptop is again causing issues  
where its started to freeze, overheat and make  unusual  noises.  He provided information that 
he contacted Assurant on 11 June 2018 to inform it about the problems he was 
encountering. He said he hasnt received any further communication  from it. Assurant has 
however told us it has no record of Mr M contacting it and as hes now outside of the 90 day 
warranty period, he should  raise  this issue separately with Assurant and it will take the 
appropriate steps to look into it. I am unable to comment on this issue  further as Assurant 
will have to look into it first. And, while I appreciate Mr M says he did contact Assurant within 
the 90 day period,  from the evidence available, Im not persuaded theres enough  for me to 
find that that he did contact Assurant in June 2018.  
With regards to the point Mr M raised about  someone elses name appearing on the web 
form and it auto-completing, my understanding is that Mr M has never raised  this with 
Assurant. So I cant comment on this and he will again have to raise this with Assurant first.
In summary,  I can see the repair was carried out in accordance  with the terms of the policy. 
Ive considered Mr Ms complaint about the serial number but I dont think  having a different  
serial number is unusual  in such a repair. I also cant  see that Assurant has done anything  
wrong  it accepted the claim, repaired the laptop  promptly and returned it to Mr M in 
Ref: DRN48033123working order and in accordance with the policy  terms and conditions. The overpayment of 
the excess has also now been refunded.  
Overall, I dont  think Assurant acted unfairly or unreasonably and I therefore  dont think it 
needs to do anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint against Assurant General 
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4803312