K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint against Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc (BOI) is that it allowed his account  to go 
into an unauthorised  overdraft, and wont refund him for a transaction  he disputes. 
background
Mr B held an account with BOI, which was closed in July 2019. In April 2019  he noticed that 
the account had gone into an unauthorised  overdraft, due to a payment made at a petrol 
station for £67.85  on 7 April.
Mr B was very unhappy  this has been  allowed to happen, particularly when hed asked BOI 
in 2018 for an agreed overdraft, and was declined. Mr Bs complaint was primarily about  
why, in these  circumstances, BOI allowed the account to become overdrawn. He then added 
that he didnt recognise the transaction.
BOI investigated, and told Mr B it couldnt  uphold his fraud complaint because the evidence  
showed his genuine card and PIN had been used to make  payment at the petrol  station. And 
as Mr B had said his card hadnt been stolen,  there  was no other explanation. It suggested 
that Mr B submit  a written disputed transaction request,  so that a chargeback might be 
attempted, but he didnt do so. It also suggested  he contacted the police  to report the fraud. 
Mr B remained unhappy,  so brought his complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator  considered the evidence, and sought further  information  from both parties. 
She concluded that BOI hadnt  made  a mistake in declining Mr Bs fraud  claim,  or in allowing 
the disputed payment that led to the unauthorised overdraft,  and so she couldnt  uphold his 
complaint.
Mr B was extremely  unhappy with our Investigators findings, and alleged that she had her 
own agenda. He said that shed repeatedly gotten  key facts wrong, and that her findings had 
no credibility. 
As matters couldnt be agreed, the complaints come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think our Investigator reached the correct conclusion,  and that we cant 
uphold this complaint.  I appreciate Mr B was unhappy with how she conducted her 
investigation, and challenged  the accuracy some of the factual information  she relied on, but 
having now reviewed  all of the information carefully myself, I think the right outcome was 
reached.
Im aware Mr B will be very disappointed  with my decision, and Id like to explain why I think 
its fair to both parties. 
Im conscious that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties,  and in 
my own words. I should explain that in my decision Im not going  to respond to each 
Ref: DRN49469572individual point  made. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. So if theres something  Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Its because Im satisfied I dont need to comment  on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the overall right outcome.
Mr Bs unhappy with two matters. Initially, his greatest concern seemed to be that BOI 
allowed his account  to go into an unauthorised overdraft,  when  only the year before it had 
refused his application for an agreed overdraft. He was also unhappy with the overdraft-
creating payment itself, saying he didnt recognise it.
allowing the overdraft
BOI has explained to us, and this explanation has been passed  on to Mr B, that although 
there was no agreed overdraft on Mr Bs account,  it didnt make a mistake in allowing the 
payment at the petrol station  to go through. This is due to an anomaly of sorts  with petrol 
station payments, where £1 is pre-authorised to allow the transaction to commence,  but a 
larger amount can then be taken. And the banks  have  to allow  these payments.
I note that Mr Bs already accepted this explanation, so I wont  spend any further time on it.
the disputed transaction
Our Investigator  correctly referred  to the Payment  Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), which, 
in summary, say that customers who are deemed to have authorised transactions  can be 
held liable  for them. BOIs position is that as the genuine card and PIN were used to pay at 
the petrol station,  then either Mr B himself must have made the payment, or authorised  
somebody else to do so.
I appreciate Mr B says that he didnt make  this payment, and that he can prove that he 
wasnt in the petrol  station  area at the time. But not only is the evidence in this regard 
unclear and not conclusive (e.g. the timings given to him by a bus company do not accord 
with his own records), just because Mr B might not have himself physically used the card at 
the petrol station,  still doesnt mean  that he didnt authorise the payment. I say this because  
he could potentially have  allowed somebody else to use his card  thus giving authority  or 
he could have been so careless  with his card and PIN that BOI would be entitled to consider 
him as acting with gross  negligence, and in breach of the terms and conditions of his 
account. 
If BOI is satisfied of either  of these two possibilities,  then its entitled to hold Mr B liable for 
the payment.
Mr B says he didnt make  the payment. Nor does he say he allowed anybody  else to make it. 
He does say that a third party was present in his home on the day in question,  and that she 
had access to his phone,  which had a note of his PIN in a non-disguised form. And that the 
bank card itself was in the phone case. But, having considered the details of this scenario, 
Im not persuaded it suggests that this person bought the petrol without Mr Bs knowledge or 
consent. There are a number of reasons  for this, not least that Mr Bs own testimony  on what  
the third party  had access to while in his home  hasnt been  consistent. And neither  is there  
Ref: DRN49469573any clear motive. He also doesnt appear to have challenged this person for stealing from 
him, which I find unusual.
Where the evidence isnt conclusive, my role is to assess what I think is most likely to have 
happened. And in this case I think the two most  likely  scenarios  are:-
1.That Mr B made the payment himself;  or
2.That he allowed somebody  else to, either  with consent or with gross negligence in 
failing to keep  his card and PIN secure.  
Either way, BOIs entitled to hold him liable  for the payment amount.
Im sorry  this isnt the decision  Mr Bs looking for, but I hope Ive explained why I think  its the 
only fair one I can reach on the available evidence. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Ashley L B More  (Mrs)
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4946957