K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold  them  a fee-
paying Plus (later rebranded as Advance)  packaged bank account.
They say they were told that fee-free accounts  were  coming to an end and so agreed  to 
upgrade as they were told it was the account that best suited their circumstances.  They say 
they were particularly interested in the life cover and travel cover  that the account  provided. 
And they say they told HSBC that they had pre-existing medical conditions and they were 
told theyd be covered for them.  
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and thought that the account had been  mis-
sold as he thought that, if Mr and Mrs H had been provided with clear enough information 
about the packaged account, they would  not have agreed to it.
HSBC disagreed with the adjudicators findings, so the complaint was referred  for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we deal with 
complaints about  mis-sold packaged  bank  accounts  on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when  considering  this complaint.
Based on what I have seen, I think that the complaint should be upheld. I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs H have said that the Plus account  was sold to them  over the phone. Whereas, 
because of how long ago the account was sold to them, HSBC doesnt  know how the 
account was sold. So, in the circumstances  I think it was likely to have been sold over the 
phone, as Mr and Mrs H recall.
HSBC says that its sales process  at the time wouldve meant that the account was sold 
without a recommendation and refers to its sales script to show  that that was the case. 
Whereas Mr and Mrs H say that it was recommended as being  the best suited account for 
them.
Having looked  at the sales script that was in use at the time, I can see that it contains a 
section that required  the seller to say that they couldnt give advice. But I can also see that it 
required the seller  to establish which account  was right for the consumer - by finding  out 
more about the consumers  circumstances.  
The sales  script goes  on to require the seller to establish the consumers needs  and to check 
if the Plus account met those needs,  for example by checking what products they already 
had with HSBC,  discussing  the benefits  of the account and checking if the added value of 
the account was equal  to or greater than the yearly cost. So, having considered what both 
parties have said and provided, on balance I think that the Plus account  was either 
recommended to Mr and Mrs H, or it was presented to them  in such a way that they were  
under the impression that it was being recommended to them. As such, this meant that 
HSBC had to make  sure it was right for them.
Ref: DRN49977442Mr and Mrs H have said that Mr H was registered  as disabled at the time and suffered from 
several chronic conditions. And Mrs H also suffered from a medical condition too. 
Importantly, Mr and Mrs H said in our complaint  form that they found it difficult  to get travel 
insurance that covered their conditions. They have  since told us that to get travel  insurance 
they would  usually have to take out standalone policies and pay for their conditions  to be 
covered. And it is with that context  in mind that I have considered the circumstances of the 
sale of the Plus account.
Mr and Mrs H say that when they were  told about the travel cover provided  by the account, 
they say they specifically  asked the seller  about cover for pre-existing  medical  conditions  
and were told this was not a problem. Whereas HSBC points to its sales script that was in 
use at the time, which required  the seller to tell the consumer to contact the insurer  if they 
had any pre-existing medical conditions. 
Having considered the competing arguments  on this point, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs H 
did tell the seller about their pre-existing medical  conditions (albeit  in general rather than 
about each condition they had). I say this as Mr H says he was registered as disabled at the 
time and they have  said that theyd declared their conditions to previous travel  insurers. So, I 
think its likely that they wouldve  asked about  this during the sale of the Plus account  too  
particularly as theyve  said that the travel insurance  was important to them. 
Mr and Mrs H say they were told its not a problem. Given  this, I think its possible  that they 
were talking at cross purposes. I think its likely  that the seller,  in answering the question and 
having already  mentioned the need to contact  the insurer,  mayve  meant  that having pre-
existing medical conditions didnt automatically mean that those  wouldnt  be covered (as the 
insurer may still choose to cover  them). But it appears that Mr and Mrs H took this to mean 
that they didnt  have  to call the insurer as their medical circumstances werent a problem.  
Either way, HSBC was required  to present this information in a clear,  fair and not misleading 
way. And I think that Mr and Mrs H were misled  into thinking that they didnt need  to check  if 
their conditions would be covered.  
In addition to this, as I think  the Plus account  had been recommended to Mr and Mrs H, this 
placed a further obligation on HSBC to ensure that it recommended a product that was right 
for them. And as I think that Mr and Mrs H did make HSBC aware that they had existing 
conditions (which included a number of chronic  conditions), I think  HSBC  couldve done 
more to check if the Plus account was right for them  for example by putting them through 
to the medical  screening line - before completing  the upgrade process.
Given the above shortcomings, I have  gone on to consider what  Mr and Mrs H were likely to 
have done, had things gone as they shouldve,  and it had been  made  clear  to them that 
theyd still need  to check with the travel insurer to see if their conditions  would be covered.
Firstly, I see no reason  why Mr and Mrs H would not have contacted  the insurer  to check  if 
they were covered; after all, this is what they said theyd done on previous occasions. But 
had they done so, I think there was a strong  chance that they might not have been covered 
for all of their conditions. 
The reason  I say this is because  HSBC  has contacted the travel insurer,  and it has not been 
able to confirm  if cover  wouldve necessarily been granted. And coupled  with Mr and Mrs H 
saying that they struggled to obtain cover for their conditions at the time as well, this leads 
me to conclude that Mr and Mrs H wont necessarily  have been covered for their conditions 
by the Plus account  travel insurance. This in turns leads me to think  that Mr and Mrs H 
Ref: DRN49977443would not have agreed to the Plus account,  as their actions and testimony lead me to think 
that being covered for their conditions was important to them.
Finally, I have considered  that Mr and Mrs H were also interested  in the life cover  that came 
with the account.  But Im not persuaded they would still have agreed to the Plus account for 
£3,000 worth of life cover on its own. I say this as Mr and Mrs H said that they agreed to it as 
they were attracted to it because it provided life and travel cover,  and Ive not seen that Mr 
and Mrs H had a particular need for many of the other benefits it provided  either.
As such,  I think that HSBC mis-sold the account  and I think  that Mr and Mrs H lost out as a 
result.
putting matters right
To put matters right, HSBC should  refund all of the Plus (later  branded as Advance)  account 
fees that Mrs and Mrs H paid, and pay 8% simple interest on those fees,  less deductible 
tax.
If Mr and Mrs H saved money  by having  a better  rate for an overdraft, loan or savings  
account than they wouldve had without  this packaged account, HSBC may take the savings 
off the total amount that it pays back to them. But if HSBC does this, it must explain this 
clearly to Mr and Mrs H, and show how it worked  out the savings  so its easy  for Mr and 
Mrs H to understand.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  HSBC  to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give Mr and 
Mrs H a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I uphold  this complaint and require  HSBC  UK Bank Plc 
to do what I have said above to put matters right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 December  2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4997744