K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds  settlement  of her 
pet insurance claims. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
background
Mrs C had a lifetime pet policy insured by Red Sands. The policy renewed each July. 
Unfortunately in 2018 her dog had cancer and she claimed for his treatment costs. Mrs C 
said she paid about £14,000 for the treatment.
Red Sands  said it paid about  £720  of her claims relating to the cancer. It wouldnt pay the 
remainder as Mrs Cs policy has an annual condition limit of £1,000. It had deducted the 
relevant excess and co-payments from the claim limit.
Mrs C complained to us, she wants Red Sands to pay all her claims.
Our investigator thought Red Sands had paid a fair settlement.
Mrs C didnt agree and wanted an ombudsmans  decision. She said she thought  she was 
covered and wouldnt keep paying if she knew the policy  covered  next to nothing.  She didnt  
think the policy limit was clear. Sadly, her dog had now passed away.
Before I made my decision I asked Mrs C to clarify the amount she had received from 
Red Sands  as she had told us it paid her £1,059 which was different from the amount 
Red Sands  said. Mrs C thought the amount Red Sands said was correct for the particular 
illness. She wanted me to know that she called  Red Sands from the vet when she went to 
collect her dog and it told her it wouldnt pay all the cost which greatly  upset her and caused 
her financial  problems. She said shed been  devastated when her husband  passed  away  last 
year and her dispute with Red Sands  has made her ill.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was partly upholding the complaint. I said:
Im very sorry to see Mrs C has had such a difficult time.  It sounds  harsh  of me to say 
Red Sands  doesnt  need  to pay all the claims when shes been  bereaved  and is in financial 
difficulty. But I have  to look at all the evidence  impartially and decide if Red Sands has acted 
fairly.
Im intending  to partly uphold this complaint. Red Sands doesnt need to pay all the claims. 
But it must pay Mrs C £1,000 in total for the claims she made for her dogs cancer and from 
what its told us its only paid her £720.80. Ill explain why.
The policy key facts/policy  summary  document is clear that Red Sands:
We will provide cover for; All reasonable costs for treatment of your pet by a vet due to 
accident, illness or disease  up to the maximum limit as specified in your schedule.
The document is also clear that:
Ref: DRN46744812What is not covered?
Significant Exclusions  or Limitations
Any treatment exceeding your condition limit.
Mrs Cs policy schedule clearly shows the annual condition limit as £1,000. The policy 
defines Condition as:
any injury sustained during, or resulting from, a single accident or any manifestation  of an 
illness having the same  diagnostic  classification or resulting from the same  disease process 
regardless of the number of incidents  or areas of your pets  body affected.
Mrs Cs dog first went to the vet in August 2018 with symptoms  that after tests and surgery 
unfortunately turned out to be cancer.  The vet evidence  is that all the treatment claimed for 
was about that one medical condition.
Red Sands  did make  the annual condition limit clear  and it can fairly and reasonably  apply 
the £1,000 policy annual  limit to all the treatment Mrs Cs dog had for cancer, and its 
symptoms.
Also, from Mrs Cs vet notes it appears  that the vet practice spoke to Red Sands on 
15 August (the day before the dogs surgery)  and Red Sands told the vet practice  about  the 
policy limit. So it didnt  withhold any information  from the vet.
Red Sands  acted fairly in not paying the full amount that Mrs C claimed.
However, Red Sands  final response letter to Mrs C details the claims for the condition  it 
received and the payments it made. It received the first claim on 13 August 2018 for £612.68  
and deducted  the excess and 20% co-payment to pay Mrs C £410.94 on 21 August. It 
received a continuation claim in 20 August for £6,822.28 and deducted the co-payment  to 
pay Mrs C £309.86 on 6 September saying the remainder was over the policy limit. It 
received another continuation claim on 17 September for £1,115.42 and on 25 September it 
wrote to again tell Mrs C that the claims were  over the policy  limit.
Ive seen evidence  that Mrs C claimed about £8,500, not the £14,000 she mentioned to us, 
although I appreciate she would have  paid more costs if her dog had further treatment than 
she claimed for. Mrs Cs claims are much  higher  than the £1,000 policy limit.
Red Sands  can limit its annual payment for claims relating to Mrs Cs dogs cancer  to £1,000  
for the policy year but from its letter to her its only paid her £720.80.
The policy clearly says the annual condition limit is £1,000 and I dont think its fair for 
Red Sands  to take the excess and any co-payment  from that limit. If that happens, the most  
that can be paid will always be less than £1,000.  As the policy wording says payments will 
be up to £1,000 the policyholder should  be able to claim  up to that amount. Its misleading to 
say the maximum amount  payable is £1,000 if the insurer  will never actually pay that much.
In these circumstances, the deductions  should be made from the full amount claimed and 
the policy limit then applied. So Red Sands needs to pay Mrs C £279.20 (£1,000 less 
£720.80 its paid) plus interest  as Ive detailed below.
responses to my provisional  decision
Red Sands  didnt respond. Mrs C had no substantive comments.  
Ref: DRN46744813my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Red Sands didnt  respond and Mrs C made no detailed comment on my provisional 
decision I have no reason to change my mind. For the reasons I gave in my provisional  
findings and these findings  I partly  uphold this complaint.  Red Sands acted fairly in not 
paying the full amount that Mrs C claimed.  But it needs to pay Mrs C £279.20 (£1,000 less 
£720.80 its paid) plus interest  as Ive detailed below.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint.
Im require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  to pay Mrs C £279.20 plus 
interest* at 8% simple a year from the date of claim to the date of settlement. Red Sands  
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited must  pay Mrs C the amount within 28 days of us 
telling it she accepts my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited considers that its required by HM
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs C how much
its taken off. It should also give Mrs C a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4674481