K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1989 Mr and Mrs T bought PPI at the same time as they applied  for a mortgage. The 
policy gave them protection against  accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a 
monthly amount  for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed  so the complaint was 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs T say they were told they had to take out PPI to get a mortgage. I cant 
know what was said at the time of the sale, and Halifax no longer has any of the 
paperwork from the sale, but thats  not surprising or unreasonable  given how long ago it 
was. Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ts comments carefully  but I also have to take into 
account how long ago the sale was and how that might  affect  what  they recall. Overall, 
without stronger evidence I cant fairly  conclude that Halifax  didnt  make  it clear the PPI 
was optional, and Mr and Mrs T didnt agree to take it out.
Halifax recommended  the PPI for Mr and Mrs T, and I think  it seems to have been  right 
for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. They were both 
entitled to between three  and six months  sick pay and had savings worth six months 
salary. But the PPI would have paid out for up to 24 months for all accident and sickness 
claims. It also gave up to 12 months  unemployment cover. It would have allowed them  
to use their savings to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep  them 
intact for their future needs. Mr and Mrs T were borrowing quite  a large  sum over a long 
period, secured on their home. So the effects  of not keeping up with the repayments 
could have been serious for them. Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful for 
them if they were sick, had an accident  or lost their job(s).
Its possible  Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs T all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was made  clear but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. And Mr and Mrs T dont  appear  to have 
been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations (such as those affecting  
people with pre-existing medical  conditions or on certain  types of employment  contract).  
Overall, I dont think better information  wouldve changed  their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs T have  lost out because of any problems with this sale.
Ref: DRN44844322Mr T says the policy must have been  transferred onto their other  mortgage  in 2001 as Mrs T 
made a successful claim after this date.  From the evidence the bank has supplied there was 
no claim made on this PPI policy that they took out in 1989,  and it didnt transfer onto the 
second mortgage as he recalls. Mr T has been unable to send in any evidence  to support his 
recollection. So I cant comment further  on this as I havent seen enough evidence to 
conclude that the banks  records  are inaccurate. It maybe his wife claimed  successfully 
under a different insurance policy.  Neither of these  points Mr T has raised change my 
conclusion about  this sale for the reasons set out above.
 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4484432