K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited (LV) wrongly settled  a 
claim against his motor insurance policy without investigating it properly.
background
Mr T told LV that hed started to emerge from a lane at a T-junction when a car sped towards 
him from the right. It collided with the front drivers  side of his car, including the door. He said 
a police officer who later attended the scene told him the other  driver was at fault.
The LV advisor  Mr T first spoke to said Mr T was likely to be held at fault, as the speed of the 
other driver couldnt  be proved.  Mr T said it could. He said his car had been shunted 
sideways and the airbags in the other  car had deployed. A passenger in that car was left 
unconscious for a few minutes. He said although there was restricted  vision  at the location,  it 
didnt cause a problem if drivers werent speeding.  He said an assessment of the damage  to 
both cars would show the speed of the impact. That wasnt done, and LV didnt request the 
police report either, so Mr T paid for it himself.
LV said as Mr T was entering a road at a junction,  he had a greater duty of care than the 
other driver.  It said the other car had right of way. It didnt think a police report was needed  
and later said the police report Mr T provided  didnt alter the known  facts.  It said it didnt 
think a forensic review of the cars was proportionate. LVs view was that a reviews findings 
wouldnt provide  a realistic prospect of success in defending the claim. It said even if speed 
could be proven, that wouldnt  show the other driver  was driving  negligently. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ts complaint. He thought LV had acted reasonably in 
deciding to settle the claim. He said the policy gave LV the right to decide  how to deal with 
any claim. He noted that Mr T would have had to cross in front of any car that was travelling 
on the road he was entering.  He didnt think the police report  gave an opinion about the 
accident, or that photos taken at the scene helped  to show  the other drivers speed. And he 
didnt think a review  of the cars would have  shown the other driver was speeding.  
Mr T said he didnt  understand  the reasons behind the investigators  view. He set out several 
queries and pointed out issues that he thought showed a lack of investigation by LV. As 
there was no agreement,  the complaint was passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  reasonable and 
fair in the circumstances of this complaint. Mr T wanted to discuss  it with me first, but thats  
not standard practice unless we think a discussions necessary. In this case, I think  theres 
sufficient written information to enable me to make  a decision.
The policy allows  LV to settle  cases as it sees fit. We only intervene if we think  an insurer 
hasnt acted reasonably in doing so. Acting reasonably includes carrying out necessary 
enquiries, taking  into account the particular facts of each claim.    
In this case, LV thought  it wouldnt  be able to defend the claim from the start, as Mr T said 
hed emerged  from a lane into the road the other  driver was using. Mr T was sure the other 
driver wasnt there until after he emerged. He thinks if the other driver hadnt been speeding, 
he would  have been able to complete his turn into the road safely. 
Ref: DRN44018792From LVs point of view,  without independent  evidence of speeding, Mr T couldnt  show the 
other driver wasnt on the road before he entered it. Its common  in situations like this (in the 
absence of evidence  to the contrary)  for insurers to hold the emerging driver  at fault. So I 
think it was reasonable  for LV to put Mr T on notice at the outset  that it was likely to settle 
the claim.  The only parties  who know  for certain  what happened on the day are the drivers 
and their passengers.  So LVs decision had to be based on the balance of probabilities.  
I dont think it was unreasonable  for LV to conclude that there was no reason for it to seek  
the police  report  in this case.  It already knew from Mr T that the police were taking no action 
against the other driver  and that theyd allowed the cars to be removed from the scene 
without being  examined. LV also knew from Mr T that there were no independent  witnesses, 
so there  would be no police witness statements in the report  for LV to review.  
Mr T obtained the police  report  himself,  as he thought it would assist him. Unfortunately,  all it 
says is that the other car collided with his car when it was half-emerged from the lane. 
Theres nothing in the report about either party being at fault.  The police officer  who told
Mr T at the scene that the other driver was at fault didnt see the accident.  I think the value of 
evidence about  an incident that wasnt witnessed (even from a police officer) is very limited.  
So I can see why LV didnt think it would be useful  to contact  the officer. Mr T says the police 
told him they dont  prosecute drivers unless a serious injury is sustained  in an accident. That 
may be so, but it doesnt help Mr T to show  that the other driver  was at fault.      
Mr T believes a forensic examination of the cars would have shown the speed the other car 
was travelling at. It isnt usual for insurers to conduct and pay for such in-depth reviews  
unless serious injuries have been  sustained. I dont think  its unreasonable for insurers  to 
want to control costs. I think its fair for them to consider whether an expense  is necessary 
and likely to be useful  in each particular case.
LV didnt think the damage to the cars was severe,  but its notes show  that it expected Mr Ts 
car to be expensive to repair,  as it was a relatively new, high-end  vehicle. It said airbags 
can engage even  at low speeds. It wasnt surprised that Mr Ts car was shunted a few feet. I 
think it was fair for LV to make those points,  as low-speed collisions can cause both those 
effects. It also noted that the other driver  was able to stop his car just past the junction Mr T 
emerged from. It said that was despite the road being wet and the road sloping down  in the 
direction the other car was travelling in. 
I think it was reasonable  for LV to advise Mr T that even if the other  drivers speed  could be 
proven, it wouldnt show  that he was driving negligently. Usually speed  isnt the only factor in 
a collision. The police report  says the speed  limit was 60 miles per hour.  Mr T told LV that 
the other driver said he was driving  at 30 miles per hour. Mr T estimated that actually his 
speed was between 40 and 50 milers an hour. Theres no actual evidence  either  way, but he 
would no doubt  have braked to try to avoid the collision. 
I disagree with the point  Mr T made  to our investigator that - on the balance of probabilities  - 
speed was a major factor in the accident. Speed cant be proven here.  And LV couldnt rule 
out other possible major contributory factors  including  the timing of Mr Ts manoeuvre.  
Mr T says the other driver should  have been asked  for his account  of events, and I agree 
with him that its usual  to do that. But I dont  think it would  have made a difference  in this 
case had the other  driver been  asked about  the accident. LV knew hed told Mr T that he 
was driving at 30 miles per hour before braking. So his account was that he wasnt 
Ref: DRN44018793exceeding the speed limit. If the police  report is correct, he was well under it. He didnt  admit  
to being at fault at the time, so I think hes very unlikely to have changed his story later on.  
I think LV considered  all the information it had from Mr T carefully before deciding not to 
carry out further enquiries.  In many cases, Id have said it wasnt  reasonable not to do more, 
but we look at each case on its own merits. In this particular case  I think  it was fair for LV to 
settle the claim without  making the enquiries Mr T thinks were necessary. And as it did so 
without accepting liability, its still open to Mr T to take action against the other driver. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4401879