K820x#14complaint
Ms K complains  about a used car she paid for using her credit  card provided by Creation 
Financial Services Limited  (CFS).
background
Ms K says the car was bought in January 2018 for a member of her family to use, who is the 
registered keeper.  She says it broke down in May 2018, around four months  and 4,000 miles 
later. And she says the cam belt had failed, causing  irreparable damage to the engine.
Ms K also says she later learned the cam belt had been due to be replaced  around eight 
months earlier. She says the supplying dealer misrepresented the condition of the car and 
didnt mention that the cam belt needed replacing. She says the sales agent  asked her 
family member to sign the relevant documentation,  although he was well aware she was 
paying for the car. And she says she didnt see this documentation  until after the car had 
broken down.
So, Ms K says shed  ideally like a refund  of the £880  she paid for the car.
CFS says the age of the car (16 years) would make  it less reliable  than a brand new vehicle. 
It says theres no evidence to suggest  it left the dealership with a fault. It says Ms K had the 
car for four months (and covered around  4,000 miles) without any failure or issues.  And it 
says if the car was faulty from the point of supply, it believes this wouldve become apparent  
sooner.
Our investigator thought M s Ks complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said the information  on 
file indicated there wasnt a contractual relationship between Ms K and the dealership as a 
member of her family had signed  the contract to buy the car, rather  than her.
Ms K disagreed with the investigators conclusions. She said shes the owner of the car and 
she has a receipt showing  how much she paid and who she paid it to. She said she couldve 
lent her family member the money to buy the car, but she paid for it as shed always  
intended to retain ownership of it. 
Ms K also said she was never asked to sign a contract  and it didnt even occur to her that 
one was necessary.  She said she didnt even realise  a document  the garage called a 
contract was in existence until the car broke  down.  She said her family member  was asked 
to sign it in her absence and he didnt read it as he thought  it was part of the documentation  
he needed to sign in relation to the registration document.  And she says her family  member 
didnt have her authority  to sign the contract.  
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ks complaint and Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN41346802I see Ms K paid for the car using her credit card with CFS. But for her to have a claim about  
this matter via CFS under  s75 Consumer Credit Act (s75) there would need to be a 
relationship between her as the debtor, CFS as the creditor and the supplying dealership as 
the seller of the car. And there  would also need  to be a clear breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the dealership. 
I also see the purchase invoice for the car was signed by the member of Ms Ks family  who 
was going to be the driver and registered  keeper of it.
I note what Ms Ks told us about  the circumstances surrounding the signing of the invoice by 
her family member.  And I note she says it was her intention to be the owner of the car in 
addition to paying the purchase price for it.  
But Im surprised Ms K was apparently unaware  of the existence of a signed purchase 
invoice until after the car broke down four months  later. And taking everything Ive seen into 
account, I dont  have enough information to conclude there is a contractual  relationship 
between Ms K and the supplier of the car. For this reason, I dont  think  Ms K has a claim via 
CFS under  s75 in respect of any breach of contract  or misrepresentation relating to the car. 
As a result of this conclusion I cant consider the merits of Ms Ks argument about 
responsibility for the fault thats  resulted in the engine needing to be replaced.    
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Ms Ks complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint against  Creation Financial  Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  12 April 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4134680