K820x#14complaint
Miss A says Elevate Credit International  Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to 
her.
background
This complaint is about one running  account credit  facility  and five high-cost short term credit  
loans that Sunny provided to Miss A between  October 2014  and June  2015.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss As complaint  and thought that she shouldnt have been  
provided with any of her instalment loans. Sunny disagreed.  So the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss A could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss A, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Miss A was unlikely to have been able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner  when it provided Miss A with her first instalment loan. 
I say this because  Sunny transitioned Miss A from a facility  which  its own product literature 
said shouldnt be used  for an extended period of time to a series  of instalment loans which  
Ref: DRN48734542had the same effect. Miss A then exhibited a borrowing  pattern of taking out further loans not 
too long after repaying previous ones. And some of them  were  even provided when Miss A 
already had an outstanding balance on an existing loan. Sunny continued lending to Miss A 
even when this pattern  was repeated and in circumstances where it ought reasonably to 
have realised that any further  loans were more likely than not unsustainable for her. 
Miss A had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt have provided her 
with. So I think that she lost out and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss A paid on all her instalment loans;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
all adverse information about Miss As instalment loans should be removed  from her 
credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss As complaint.  Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Miss A compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4873454