K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy about  NFU Mutual Insurance  Society  Limiteds decision to 
decline their buildings  insurance claim.
background
Mr P called into his local NFU Mutual  office  to report  damage to a garden table. He said a 
storm had caused  an umbrella to damage his outdoor table. Whilst reporting the claim Mr P 
said he told NFU hed found a replacement table  advertised in a local newspaper.  Mr P said 
he discussed with NFU the cost of the replacement table and it said he could go ahead and 
buy the replacement,  send NFU the receipt and it would  settle  his claim. After Mr P had 
bought and paid for the replacement  table, he received a letter  from NFU telling him the 
claim had been  declined. Mr and Mrs P complained to NFU.
NFU said it hadnt told Mr P that his claim was agreed. It said all claims had to pass  through 
a validation process. This process was used  to check the damage caused  was consistent 
with the accident reported.  On this occasion,  NFU had said it couldnt find any evidence  of a 
storm in the area where Mr and Mrs P lived. NFU said the process also required several  
estimates before a claim  would be agreed. It said it would have advised  Mr P that hed need 
to obtain further  estimates for a replacement table. NFU said the newspaper advert  wouldnt 
be sufficient. Unhappy  with this Mr and Mrs P brought  their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said it was most likely that NFU hadnt 
agreed to Mr and Mrs P replacing the table during the initial  claim discussion. She also 
checked the weather conditions from the time of the claim and said it didnt match  the 
requirements under Mr and Mrs Ps NFU policy to make a successful claim. Mr and Mrs P 
didnt accept this and asked for their complaint to be passed  to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When looking at storm damage cases we ask three questions:
were there storm conditions on or around  the date of the claim?
is the damage consistent with storm damage?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer  to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
Ive no reason to doubt what Mr P has said about the damage to the outdoor  table. But 
NFUs policy  is specific  about what is and isnt considered a storm. The policy says NFU 
need evidence  of wind speeds being recorded  at 45 mph or above before it accepts that a 
storm occurred. In this case the evidence shows a maximum wind speed of 26mph in the 
local area. So, in relation  to question one of our three questions   the answer is no. There 
were no storm  conditions.
Ref: DRN47178242Because the answer to question one is no I dont need to go on to consider the other  
questions as all three need to be yes for me to think NFU has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably.
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr P feels he was told he could  replace  his table following the 
visit to NFUs office. But I also accept that NFU has a set process  for how it deals with 
claims and it follows  it. So, its likely that there was some confusion  between the parties  
during the discussion. I accept thats  left Mr and Mrs P in an unfortunate situation having  
bought the replacement table. But it doesnt  mean I need to ask NFU to deal with 
Mr and Mrs Ps claim. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against NFU Mutual  Insurance Society  Ltd
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 January  2020
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4717824