K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) sold by 
Lloyds Bank  Plc, trading  as Cheltenham  & Gloucester (C&G), in 1998.  The mortgage was a 
joint one issued in the names of Mr and Mrs H. But only Mr H was covered by the PPI. They 
say this cover was mis-sold.
For consistency Ill refer to C&G in my decision.
Background
I see Mr and Mrs H have already been paid some  money in relation to part of the 
commission from selling them PPI with their mortgage. 
However one of our adjudicators said the complaint  about  the policy being mis-sold shouldnt  
be upheld. Mr and Mrs H still think the cover  was mis-sold in the first place and so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. 
Im sure Mr and Mrs H now honestly and genuinely believe  they were mis-sold the cover,  but 
Im afraid there is very little information to refer to after more than 20 years  after the point of 
sale. Businesses arent required to keep  documents indefinitely  and so in cases like this, we 
look at whats more  likely to have  happened.
Ive also seen quite  a few very similar cases to this and my experience is that C&G normally 
required consumers to fill out a separate PPI application form in addition  to their mortgage  
application. On this they would have been  asked  to confirm they wanted PPI cover  and also 
to choose the split between the mortgage holders. I see the policy was set up 100% in 
favour of Mr H with Mrs H not being  covered.  My experience is that they would also need to 
fill out a monthly  direct  debit transfer from their bank account to pay for the PPI policy.
Mr and Mrs H say they never agreed to PPI and that despite  Mr H becoming  unemployed 
some years later, they never claimed.  They say this shows they didnt know  they had the 
cover because they hadnt  agreed to it.
I accept this is a possibility, but I taking what I know about how these policies were normally  
sold, I think C&G probably obtained Mr and Mrs Hs consent. And I think they would  have 
been able to see they were being  charged  for PPI over an extended time period.
So I think its more likely  the documents they would have completed  mean  they probably 
agreed to the PPI although I completely accept they dont remember this after such  a long 
time.
Ref: DRN46709222Its not disputed  that the PPI was recommended as part of an advised sale.  This means 
C&G had a duty to ensure the policy was suitable.  I think it was.
I think this because Mr H was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major  
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. He was employed although I think any 
sickness protection he would have had would have been quite moderate. Their  mortgage 
was secured against their home  and so the consequences of not being able to make the 
repayments could  have been  serious. In the event of a successful claim, the PPI would have 
helped pay the mortgage for up to 12 months. This would have been in addition to the other 
means they had.
I therefore dont  think recommending  PPI was unreasonable in this case  and Mr H appears 
to have been the main earner.
C&G also had to provide information  that was clear,  fair and not misleading. I obviously cant 
confirm what would  have  been said at the meeting(s) and its possible C&G could have done 
a better  job in explaining  things. But from what Ive seen, I think  the cost would  have been  
made clear and I think Mr and Mrs H probably had enough information  on which to make an 
informed choice about what they wanted  to do.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H but I dont think  the PPI policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I dont direct 
Lloyds Bank  Plc, trading  as Cheltenham  & Gloucester, to do anything to put matters  right.   
Its my understanding Mr and Mr H have already been paid the commission element Ive 
mentioned above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 September 2019.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4670922