K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs R say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the MPPI wasnt mis-sold  because:
I think Nationwide  made it clear that Mr and Mrs R didnt have to take out the MPPI and 
they chose to take it out  although I can understand  why they cant remember this.
Nationwide  didnt  provide Mr and Mrs R with a personalised recommendation to take out 
the MPPI so it didnt  have to check if it was right for them.  But it did have to make sure 
Mr and Mrs R got the information  they needed to decide  if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs R about the MPPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been. But they chose to take out the MPPI  so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like they were affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the MPPI 
cover  so it would have  been  useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks  like 
the MPPI was affordable.  So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have 
put them  off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs R have said. But for the reasons  explained  above,  
these points dont  change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs R paid on their MPPI  and whether 
Nationwide treated them unfairly. 
Nationwide has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Rs MPPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Nationwide  has been working this 
out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Rs commission  was 
less than half the cost of the MPPI. As thats the case, I dont think  it needed to tell them 
about the commission  so I dont think Nationwide treated them unfairly.  This means  it 
doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs R back any of the commission they paid for the MPPI. 
Ref: DRN47038662my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4703866