K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Best Practice IFA Group Limited didnt discuss its fees with her in 
person and the documentation dealing with costs  was contradictory. In addition,  she said it 
was unsuitable  to switch her pensions due to the costs which wouldnt be recouped by the 
time of her retirement. Mrs S also said Best Practice didnt adequately  address her 
complaint.
background
On 30 November 2016, Mrs S agreed to receive advice from Best Practice.  The service 
charter, which Mrs S signed,  detailed a range of adviser fees for both lump sum and regular 
premium contracts. It also explained  Best Practices ongoing advice charges.
On 12 January 2017, Best Practice recommended Mrs S should switch her existing pensions 
to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).  It was expected that Mrs S would progressively 
move towards retirement over a five year period. Although later in the report it stated ideally  
Mrs S would like to retire at 65 which was only two years away at the time.
In addition to switching the pensions,  Best Practice recommended setting up regular pension  
contributions as Mrs S was not expected to generate  her required level of income  in 
retirement. Within the pension shortfall analysis section of the recommendation report, Best 
Practice compared the costs of Mrs S existing pensions and the proposed plan.  
Of the five existing plans,  one would  recoup the advice charges and save money after three 
years. This amounted  to just over one third of Mrs S total pension values. A second plan, 
representing one quarter of Mrs S pension values would take 10 years  to recoup the advice 
costs be providing savings. For the remaining  three plans there wasnt a statement of when 
the advice costs would be recouped.
Mrs S complained to Best Practice, explaining that the advice costs  werent  explained and 
that it was unsuitable to switch her pension so close  to retirement  if it was going to take a 
long time to recoup the advice costs.
An adjudicator reviewed Mrs Ss complaint and recommended  not to uphold it. He said:
Whilst he couldnt know  what verbal  discussions took place, the fees were clearing 
explained before  Best Practice provided its advice.
The cost benefits  of moving the existing pensions were  mixed. The plan which would 
start providing savings  after three years wouldve been reasonable to move as, on 
balance, Mrs S was likely  to retire in about five years time.
The adviser had explained that there  was an option to switch funds within Mrs Ss 
existing policies. Even if she didnt move  all of her pensions, there wouldve been 
advice costs, so she was broadly in the same position having  moved  to a new plan.
He felt Best Practice had responded reasonably  to Mrs S complaint.
Mrs S accepted the adjudicators view on the charges, but she pointed out that what  she had 
been told didnt  match the documented advice. However, she asked that an ombudsman  
review the advice to move  pensions. She said that she believed the advice was unsuitable 
bearing in mind her age. She also asked that the issue of the handling of her complaint be 
looked at again.
Ref: DRN41819662my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The advice received by Mrs S was twofold, she was recommended to transfer her existing 
five pensions into a single  plan and to make regular pension contributions of £3,000 per 
month. Around the time of the advice and its implementation  she turned 63. Her concern is 
that it was inappropriate to make  the switch with retirement looming. 
Looking first at the recommendation  to make regular contributions  I can see that the advice 
contained the following: The recommendations contained within  this report  are based  on 
providing you with an ideal  solution  to all your financial  planning objectives  and to fill any 
gaps that we may identify in your current financial planning. At this time, these solutions do 
not take into account your overall affordability. The purpose is to put you in a position to be 
able to make  informed decisions and start addressing any issues  highlighted. It is therefore  
important that you consider  the overall  affordability of any plans.
As such the advice therefore set out what was considered to be the most suitable means of 
reach the desired objective, but this was the tempered by Mrs Ss available income. It was 
subsequently decided that she would  make smaller regular contributions. I dont think I can 
hold the business to be at fault for identifying the ideal scenario and later adapting it to meet  
the reality of Mrs Ss situation. 
On the issue of whether the advice  was suitable  there are many  different ways of planning a 
pension and the broadly  same end result  can be achieved by more  than one route.  It is not 
my role to use hindsight to identify  what would have been the best pension, but to consider if 
what was recommended was suitable.
I can see that there was some confusion about Mrs S intended  retirement date. Parts of the 
documentation mention her planning  to retire at age 65 while others  refer to her retiring in 
some five years time which  would have taken her to age 68. As things stand I believe Mrs S 
continues to work. I think the adjudicator  summed it up well by saying that the report 
recorded Mrs S as most  likely  moving  towards retirement over a five year period, but ideally 
she would  like to retire  when she was 65.
The appendix covering the switch which sets out the detail of the proposed transfer uses  a 
retirement age of 65. Despite the lack of consistency  in the report I am reassured to note 
that the adviser used the earlier age of 65 when taking into account  the costs.  This analysis 
looks at each of the existing  five pensions and compares the likely return of staying with that 
of transferring the funds into a new single pension. It identifies where the new scheme is 
more expensive than the old one and where  it is not.
That seems  to me to be a reasonable  and detailed analysis to allow Mrs S to have made a 
considered decision  as to whether to proceed. The analysis explains that it takes into 
account the agreed research and implementation fees, but not any on-going  adviser fees. I 
believe the documentation makes it sufficiently clear  the basis on which the comparison has 
been made. I dont  consider there can be said to have been  any smoke  and mirrors. 
The rationale of moving  the pension into a single fund is recorded as offering the ability  to 
use drawdown to provide  you with income in retirement as you do not want  to buy an 
annuity. Switching  your pensions also allows your beneficiaries the ability  to use nominee 
Ref: DRN41819663drawdown, should this be required. It is also noted that the existing pensions dont match  
Mrs S appetite for risk.
Mrs S has said that she had not taken much interest  in her pension  provision and I note she 
had significant  other  sources of income  to cover her retirement needs.  She doesnt  
recognise the reasons for change put forward by Best Practice. She simply wanted to 
address her pension situation as she was approaching  potential  retirement. I appreciate  Mrs 
S comments, but I consider  the rationale  recorded in the advice to be reasonable and to 
make sense in her situation in late 2016.
The review  undertaken  by the adviser  is comprehensive and takes into account a range of 
factors. One of the key ones is the level of risk. Her existing pensions  were risk rated  from 
four to nine where one is very low and 10 is very high. As a person approaches retirement 
age it is normal to place  pension funds in a low risk environment to reduce  the possible 
impact of any market volatility. 
The risk evaluation  carried  out by the adviser gave Mrs S a rating of five. I note she says this 
was manipulated  to some degree  by the adviser. Even if that was the case and I cannot say 
as I wasnt present, I consider it was reasonable to have  suggested  that a lower  risk pension 
be taken at that point.  
Therefore, I consider  that on balance the advice was suitable, even if was made at a time 
when Mrs S was close to retirement.  As she has said she had adopted a laissez-faire 
attitude to her pension  planning and the adviser  sought to offer her the opportunity  to 
restructure her pensions into a single  pan that seems to heave been suitable for her 
circumstances. I note Mrs S has accepted the adjudicators view on the charges,  but I would 
add that I think those charges were made suitably clear and it was open to Mrs S to seek 
clarification if she was unclear.
I have also looked  at the businesss response to Mrs Ss complaint. The business responded 
to her in April 2018 and she felt it didnt address all the points she had raised. She told the 
business that it had failed  to deal with her complaint  fully and it responded in to her in May.  
While it would have been better if the initial response had been  more comprehensive I dont 
think that I can conclude  it was flawed to an extent  that I can uphold  her complaint. I dont 
believe the response was incorrect, but simply the initial letter  was incomplete. I think  that 
was duly addressed in the later reply. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 
18 May 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4181966