K820x#14complaint
B (a private pension scheme), Mr R and the estate of the late Mrs R (the complainants) 
have complained that an account held with Halifax Share Dealing Limited  (HSDL) was 
wrongly registered as a private account  instead of being registered as a trust account. HSDL 
says its terms  and conditions confirm that in order to be eligible for one of its accounts the 
customer must be an individual and that it does  not have the facility to administer non-
personal accounts, so the personal account is correct.
background 
The matter  was considered by one of our adjudicators  in two respects  first, in terms of 
whether (or not) the complaint is within the jurisdiction  of this service  (based on the time 
limits for making complaints) and then in terms of the merits of the complaint.
Events
The adjudicator summarised the sequence  of events  mainly as follows:
In 2002 an Investment  Trust Share Plan (the investment) was set up by the trustees  
of B  that is, in the names of Mr R, Mrs R and U (an independent trustee entity), as 
trustees of B. It was set up to be administered  by a third party  firm. 
In 2009 the administration of the investment was migrated to HSDL. Complaints 
about the setting up of the HSDL account were submitted  in 2013, 2015 and 2018.  
The complaint  in 2013 [which was prompted  when U was denied access to the 
account] sought to have  the account revised  to be a trust account in the name of the 
three trustees of B. Initially HSDL did not uphold the complaint. It issued a final 
response letter (FRL) in this respect and noted that the account was set up as a 
personal account in Mr Rs name, without authorisation for third party  access. It then 
revised its position and issued another  FRL in which  it partially upheld the complaint. 
[It accepted evidence from U showing previously provided authorisation, granted  it 
(and Mrs R) access  and offered compensation for inconvenience caused.] 
The complaint  in 2015 was prompted by broadly the same access  issue  a valuation  
request from U which HSDL declined. HSDL  issued  another FRL, apologised for the 
matter, confirmed authority for U in the account and provided the valuation.
The complaint  in 2018 arose because U was again denied, by HSDL, access to 
information in the account.  HSDL issued another FRL.  It did not uphold the complaint 
and it concluded  that it never ought  to have agreed to register any additional parties, 
as it previously did, because the account was/is a personal account in which  third 
party authorisation does not feature. However, it conceded there  had been  times 
when the account  had not been administered  appropriately and offered 
compensation for inconvenience in this respect. 
Jurisdiction (time  limits) 
The issue  considered by the adjudicator in this respect was whether (or not) the complaint 
had been referred  to this service within the regulators six months time limit. This was 
addressed in the context of broadly the same  complaint having been  made  in 2013, 2015 
and 2018  with a revision of the initial outcome in 2013 and then a further revision of the 
outcome in 2018. The adjudicator noted aspects of the FRLs issued for each relevant 
complaint and the events after each FRL, she acknowledged that the common  thread in all 
Ref: DRN46307612of the complaints suggested that it should have been referred to us earlier.  However, in the 
event that the complaint is not time barred she addressed  its merits.
Merits
The adjudicator did not consider that the complaint should be upheld. She highlighted the 
need for evidence  of wrongdoing on HSDLs part  in terms of the migration and setting up 
of the account  in 2009  in order  to uphold the complaint and she concluded that she had 
not seen such  evidence. She mentioned  that her pursuit for migration related evidence had 
been met with a response from HSDL  confirming it had destroyed  migration related 
documents because  they were dated and that the third party  firm which initially  administered  
the investment  said it too is unable to assist  in this respect. The adjudicator referred to 
HSDLs evidence that the account was migrated and set up as a personal account  and that it 
has never offered  trust accounts.  She said there is an absence  of wider evidence  to doubt 
this. 
Response
The complainants  disagree with the adjudicators views on jurisdiction and merits. They  say 
a sensible approach is needed to give weight to evidence of how the trust was set up, how 
the investment  was set up based  on the trust, how the initial investment account was set up 
based on the trust and how the migrated  account (to HSDL) should  have  remained  on the 
basis of the trust. The matter was then referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whether  (or not) this is a 
complaint we can address and, if so, what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint.
Jurisdiction
The regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  imposes a duty on firms to give 
notice, within  their final responses to complaints, of a complainants right to refer the 
complaint to this service.  Firms must  also state the time limit within  which a complainant 
must refer the matter  to us  that time limit being six months from the date the firms  final 
response to the complaint is sent. 
The Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules  within the FCAs  Handbook define  this services 
jurisdiction to consider  complaints. DISP 2.8 says  The Ombudsman cannot consider a 
complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial Ombudsman Service  more than six 
months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its final response  
[my emphasis] 
The referral  time limit starts from the date of an FRL that retains its standing  as a final 
response. Where there is evidence that a specific FRL has expressly or implicitly been 
withdrawn (for example, where  there  has been a subsequent material change  in the 
outcome or where the complaint is subsequently reinvestigated afresh with reference to a 
new referral right) it can follow that it no longer stands as a final response so the referral time 
limit no longer starts  from the date of that specific FRL. 
Ref: DRN46307613I accept that all of the complaints, in 2013,  2015 and 2018, were broadly about  the same  
issue(s)  that is, how the share dealing account had been set up, in terms of whether (or 
not) it should  have  been a trust account and in terms of who had access to (or authority 
within) it. I also note that the only referral of the complaint to this service took place in 2018.
The first FRL in 2013 did not uphold the complaint, it gave notice  of a right of referral but the 
right was not exercised in the relevant six months.  The second FRL appears  to be unclear 
on whether (or not) HSDL conceded  to changing  the personal account  to a trust account. 
However, it did agree to add U as an authorised third party. In terms of the underlying matter 
of access to and authority  within the account,  the second FRL in 2013  revised  the outcome 
and granted the access sought by the complainants (or U). 
The second  FRL in 2013 did not properly give notice  of a right of referral. It produced a 
materially different outcome so it substituted the first FRL and gave rise to a new right of 
referral. However, because it did not properly give notice in this respect  it could not and did 
not start the six months  referral time limit, so there was no time limit on referring the 
complaint from the second FRL in 2013.
The FRL in 2015, about  the same  issue, delivered  the same  outcome as the second FRL in 
2013  that is, it granted the access sought  by U. It gave  proper  notice of a right of referral 
so it started  the six months referral time limit from then. No referral to us was made  within 
that time limit.
The FRL in 2018, about  the same  issue, appears  to have resulted from a reinvestigation and 
it delivered a materially  different  outcome  in which the access sought  by U was denied.  This 
substituted the 2015  FRL. Proper  notice of a right of referral was given  within the 2018 FRL 
and the complaint was referred to us within the time limit given. I consider that the complaint 
has been referred to this service in time.
Merits
I agree  with the adjudicator, I do not consider that there is evidence to establish  that HSDL  
wrongly set up the share dealing account  in the course of the migration in 2009. I appreciate 
that HSDLs position  has been mixed between 2013 and 2018. It accepts this, it says the 
concessions it made  in 2013 and 2015 were  mistakes  and that it never should have allowed 
U access to the account as it did. 
I can understand if the complainants regard  this as a basis  for me to prefer  HSDLs previous 
concessions of the complaint (between 2013 and 2015) over its present rejection  of the 
complaint (from 2018). However,  I do not. I am not persuaded that HSDL ever went as far as 
to explicitly accept that the account  had been  wrongly set up as a personal account and that 
it should have  been and should be a trust account. It does not appear  to have said this, 
instead it previously  agreed  to add third party authority for U within  the account before 
reviewing the matter in 2018 and concluding  that such  authority is not allowed for personal 
accounts.
I consider this to be important because it provides a context in which the mistake that HSDL 
has referred to becomes  plausible. Overall and on balance, I consider it plausible that 
HSDLs staff could have been  previously mistaken  that third party authority could apply to 
personal accounts  when  it was not  so its previous concessions in this respect do not 
automatically mean it accepts the account should be a trust account. 
Ref: DRN46307614This returns my consideration to the type of account that was set up in 2009.  I accept  
evidence about  how the trust was set up, about how the investment was set up on the basis 
of the trust and about how the previous  account with the third party firm was based on the 
trust. However, in determining whether  (or not) HSDL has done something  wrong  in this 
complaint it remains necessary to determine  how the account was migrated to and set up by 
HSDL in 2009.
Available evidence  suggests that HSDL completed the migration by setting up a personal 
account and that it did this because  it only offered personal accounts and did not offer trust 
accounts. It says (or suggests) that this was done  upon the instruction of the third party  firm. 
I do not comment on this, because I am not addressing a complaint about the third party firm 
and, as the adjudicator established,  that firm is not in a position to provide us with 
information about what happened  in the migration. A similar  point relates to HSDL,  it too 
cannot provide  us with documentation  about  the migration, as it says such documentation 
was destroyed  after its standard period of safekeeping.  
In order to uphold  this complaint evidence that HSDL wrongly  set up the account is needed. I 
have not seen such evidence. It is not enough to show that the previous account  with a third 
party firm, which was subsequently migrated to HSDL, was a trust account. The question 
remains as to the type of account  HSDL  was instructed to open  in the migration process  or 
the agreement  between both firms as to the type of account it would be opening. HSDL says 
its opening of a personal account was transparent to the third party firm at the time and I 
have not seen evidence to suggest  otherwise or to suggest it did so contrary  to instruction or 
contrary to agreement with the third party  firm at the time.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold the complaint  from B, Mr R and the estate of 
the late Mrs R. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask for 
acceptance or rejection of my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4630761