K820x#14complaint
Mr W feels that TSB Bank  Plc has treated him unfairly in lending  to him irresponsibly on a 
loan and an overdraft;  and the application  of fees and charges applied to his account over a 
significant amount  of time.
background
Mr W says that TSB has treated him unfairly because it didnt do enough to consider his 
financial situation and spending when it gave him a loan in 2012 and when it increased his 
overdraft to £3000 and then refused to reinstate his overdraft in 2017. He also feels its 
unfair that it applied interest, fees and charges to his current account  throughout the period  
of 2012-2017. So he complained to TSB.
TSB said that its treated him fairly.  It showed how the loan that was made to him was repaid 
only a few days later, how it considered his spending and credit  rating regarding the 
overdraft. It also pointed  to evidence showing that it was Mr W who cancelled  his overdraft 
not it and that the interest, fees and charges were in line with the terms and conditions 
agreed. All in all it feels it hasnt done anything  wrong.
The investigator said we couldnt consider the loan because it was outside  of the time limits 
this service has to work within.  And on the other  points felt the bank hadnt treated Mr W 
unfairly. Mr W remains unhappy  so this complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint .
With regard to the time limits regarding the loan. The investigator said the loan was taken 
and repaid more  than six years before Mr W complained  here and Mr W would have known 
at the time of cancelling  the loan and paying back the money that he had cause to complain. 
In the absence of any exceptional circumstances the adjudicator  decided  this element of 
complaint was out of time. In his response  Mr W has not argued against  this point. So Ive 
not considered  this issue at all as I consider that Mr W accepts the position of the 
Investigator.
With regard to the fees and charges applied to his account I note that In November 2009, the 
Supreme Court issued  a ruling on current account  charges. The ruling said that charges 
cannot be challenged because they are unfair  or too high. The Court  did not make an 
exception for situations involving financial difficulties. Banks and building  societies dont 
have to refund any charges that are applied in line with the terms and conditions  of an 
account. We have  to take the law into account when looking at complaints. The Court ruling 
means we cannot  say current account  charges are unfair or too high.  And having considered 
the statements  relating to this account Im not persuaded  that fees, charges or interest have 
been applied  wrongly to it. So I dont  think they need  to be refunded.
TSB must treat customers in certain  circumstances positively and sympathetically. But 
there is no obligation to freeze interest or to reduce charges  or fees.  Also there  is no 
requirement to provide  services or indeed credit for free. I think,  on balance, that TSB has 
treated Mr W positively  and sympathetically.  I say this because TSB,  once on notice that Mr 
Ref: DRN49795572W was struggling, has taken action with regard to fees and interest.  And considering the 
situation I dont  see why TSB should  do any more.
Ive considered Mr Ws statements throughout  the period in question  with regard to his 
overdraft. I can see that hes generally  managed his account well and within  the parameters 
agreed with TSB. I can see that over time the overdraft  limit has increased but not massively 
at any one time nor have  the increases in limit been  close together chronologically. And 
considering the amounts going  into the account and leaving the account I dont consider the 
overdraft to be particularly  large.  Im not persuaded considering the matter  in the round and 
when the overdraft increases happened that TSB has lent money to Mr W irresponsibly. And 
considering when TSB realised Mr W was in financial  difficulty  I think it has treated him 
positively and sympathetically since. 
Ive considered what Mr W said about  getting the overdraft, namely no proper checks were 
conducted by TSB.  I just walked in and they added £3000 and no questions were  asked.  
Having looked  at the account throughout, and considered the processes TSB went through  
when making these lending decisions I dont consider Mr Ws comments  reflect  what  actually 
happened. Just because  Mr W might not recall or been aware of the checks  made  by TSB at 
the time doesnt  mean they didnt happen.
I also note that there is a record  on TSBs  internal systems of when Mr W contacted it to say 
hed cancelled his overdraft facility online. So I dont  think it was taken  from him as Mr W has 
inferred. TSB then had to decide whether it would make the facility  open to him again at that 
point-in effect  making a new lending decision. It says it considered his spending and noted 
that Mr W was using  the account for gambling.  Based on that and other factors  it said it 
decided it didnt want to lend to Mr W. So it didnt make an overdraft facility available  to Mr 
W. This is a commercial decision that TSB has made. As such  it is not in my remit to decide 
on commercial  decisions  as long as they are made  fairly. And having considered the 
situation at the time and what TSB knew at that point  I dont  think it treated him unfairly by 
not lending to him again.
Overall considering all that has happened  I dont think Mr Ws comments  are persuasive. I 
think on balance the evidence shows TSB has treated him fairly. So in short this complaint 
does not succeed. 
Mr W isnt bound by this decision if he doesnt  want to be. Hes free to reject  this final 
decision and take the matter through  whatever  avenue he chooses. But this decision brings 
to an end this complaint  in this process  at this service. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against the TSB Bank Plc. It 
has nothing more to do with regard to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4979557