K821x#15complaint
Mrs P has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly charged her an 
additional premium  for her car insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes their agents.
background
In June 2017, Mrs P took out car insurance with Advantage through a price  comparison 
website. She declared that she, and the two named drivers on her policy, had been resident 
in the UK from birth. Her premium for the policy year was set at £456.39.
But soon after Advantage did validation checks and found out that Mrs P and her named 
drivers hadnt been resident in the UK since birth. Mrs Ps son, one of the named drivers, 
spoke with Advantage on Mrs Ps behalf. Advantage told him that as the policy had been 
amended to take into account the correct residency information, the premium had been 
adjusted and that there was an additional  premium of £199.09. When Mrs Ps son said he 
didnt think the additional premium was fair, Advantage said that if it wasnt  paid and there 
was an accident  later on, they wouldnt pay out on the claim.  Mrs Ps son then reluctantly 
paid the additional premium. 
Mrs P complained saying  the increase was unfair and discriminatory. Advantage looked into 
her complaint but didnt uphold it. Mrs P didn't  think that was fair and bought her complaint to 
us. One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. He felt that Advantage hadnt  treated 
Mrs P fairly. As Advantage didnt agree with our adjudicator,  the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I must decide if Advantage have dealt  with Mrs P in a fair and reasonable way.
premium calculation
Mrs P believes the increase to her premium  was discriminatory given it was based on the 
place of her and the named drivers births. It might help if I explain that we're  not the industry 
regulator. That means it's not my role to tell an insurer how much they can charge  for their 
policies. And our service  generally takes the view that, providing they treat people  fairly - that 
is they treat customers with similar circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled  to 
charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
Mrs Ps premium  did go up significantly, so I can understand why she was concerned. But 
just because Mrs Ps premium has increased,  I don't think  that means that Advantage have 
treated her unfairly. Advantage provided  me with information to show  how Mrs Ps premium  
has increased. That information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with Mrs P. But 
having looked at it carefully,  Im satisfied that Advantage treated Mrs P in the same way as it 
would other  policyholders  in similar circumstances. So I think they calculated her premium 
reasonably.
Ref: DRN45385942When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they will have to pay out for those.  And its not down to me to 
tell insurers what factors they should take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go 
about those assessments.  Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk 
and the extent of those.  Thats essentially a matter of commercial  judgement,  balancing risk 
against the need to compete with other  policies  on offer, and not something  we would 
usually think its fair to interfere with. 
I can understand why Mrs P thinks it was unfair for Advantage to charge a higher premium  
because she and the named drivers  hadnt lived in the UK since  birth. But each insurer will 
have their own methods  of calculating risk. Im also aware that many  insurers think  an 
individual who hasnt  lived in the UK since birth presents a higher risk than people who have. 
But other insurers might not think the same. As insurance is essentially an assessment of 
risk, I dont think  theres anything wrong with insurers considering whether or not certain  
individuals fall into higher risk groupings.  And Im aware that Advantage doesn't  calculate 
premiums based on where the policyholder was born, only on how long theyve lived in the 
UK. So they dont  consider a customers nationality or race.  So I think a British citizen  born 
and raised abroad  who becomes resident in the UK later on in life would be treated in the 
same way as Mrs P, so I cant  say Mrs P has been  singled out or treated differently to others 
in similar  circumstances. 
charging the additional premium
Advantage have  suggested that what Mrs P did amounted to, what is known in the insurance 
industry, a careless  misrepresentation. And theres specific legislation - the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers  
may do in such a situation. It says that insurers may:
 cancel the policy; or
 tell the consumer that they will settle any future claims on a proportionate basis  (or 
apply other  exclusions  or limitations  it would otherwise have  applied).  But if the 
consumer isn't happy with that approach, they can cancel  the policy themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply charge an additional premium, although we think  
its fair for the insurer  to give the policyholder  the option of them paying the additional 
premium for the insurer to then settle the claim in full instead of settling the claim 
proportionately. But that can only happen  if the policyholder is happy with that.
But while CIDRA  gives the insurer the option of cancelling the policy  where there has been a 
careless misrepresentation,  we think its fair for an insurer to explain to the consumer theres 
a problem and give them the option of paying the additional premium  in order to keep the 
policy going or otherwise to cancel the policy themselves. Thats  because  the insurer  
cancelling the policy will have serious consequences on the policyholder  because  they will 
have to declare  it when  they want to take out insurance later on.
In Mrs Ps case, when  her son spoke to Advantage on her behalf, he was told that there was 
an additional  premium  to pay. He wasnt told about  the other options available under CIDRA, 
namely that if the additional premium wasnt paid the policy could continue, but that any 
claim would be dealt  with on a proportionate  basis, or that Mrs P could cancel the policy. 
While its correct that Mrs Ps son paid the additional premium, he was clearly  unhappy  and I 
think he felt he didnt  have  any other  option but to pay it. Had Advantage explained the 
Ref: DRN45385943possibilities under CIDRA,  then Mrs P could have made an informed decision. So I think  
Advantage havent dealt with Mrs P fairly.
As Mrs Ps policy has since lapsed, I think the fair thing for Advantage to do to put things 
right is to refund Mrs P the additional premium they charged her. They should add simple 
interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year, calculated from the date she paid the additional 
premium until they refund  her.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  and require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to refund  Mrs P the additional  premium they charged her. They should add 
simple interest to that amount  at a rate of 8% a year calculated from the date she paid it until 
they refund  her1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.  
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
  
1 If Advantage consider that theyre  required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mrs P how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mrs P a 
certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN4538594