K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mrs M didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she may not remember  this.
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ms credit card application and credit  card 
agreement. 
On the credit  card application, its been indicated  by an X that PPI is to be added  to 
the account. I think that since  this policy was sold in a meeting where Halifax  were 
making a recommendation to take PPI and some  of Mrs Ms details  have also been 
typed on the form, that the X was added following a discussion to reflect what  Mrs M 
wanted.
On the credit  card agreement, underneath  where  Mrs M has signed  for the credit,  
theres another separate  section for PPI. In this section  theres  a statement that says 
I wish to purchase Credit Card Repayment  Cover. What appears  to be a 
handwritten X has been added to this box and Mrs M has also signed separately in 
this section to agree  to take PPI.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her   
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong.        
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything BoS has said - including  what shes said about her existing 
means of making  her credit card repayments. Mrs M was entitled to full sick pay, but after six 
months it would  decrease to half sick pay. This PPI policy  could have paid out for up to 12 
months per accident or sickness claim  longer than Mrs Ms period of full sick pay. So I still 
think that the recommendation to take PPI was suitable and the policy  was right for Mrs M 
and these points  dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN46279222This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs M paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs M back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mrs M now Ive issued  my final decision. Its possible 
that they may have already done this. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4627922