K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Z complain  about the advice  and service they received from Mattioli Woods PLC 
in relation to their Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP).  
background
Mr Z met Mattioli Woods adviser at a seminar in November 2017. And he attended a further 
meeting with the adviser on 27 November 2017.
At this meeting, Mr Z signed  application forms to open a new Self-Invested  Personal  
Pension (SIPP) account, administered by Mattioli Woods. 
On 30 November 2017 Mattioli Woods wrote  to Mr Z to confirm  its recommendation to open 
the SIPP in order  to facilitate a property  purchase.
Mrs Z became a member  of the pension  scheme  on 4 December 2017, as she was going to 
purchase the property  with Mr Z.
On 20 December 2017 Mr Z transferred £175,000 to the SIPP  bank account in seven 
increments of £25,000. He also confirmed by email that the intention was to complete the 
property purchase the next day. 
On 22 December 2017 Mr Z called Mattioli  Woods to advise  that the property purchase 
would not be going ahead. And he requested a refund of £50,000  which he said had been 
transferred to the SIPP in error.  These monies  were then returned to him, along with an 
additional £10,000 in error. 
On 11 January 2018 Mr Z emailed Mattioli Woods and said due to computer error instead of 
£75,000 (£25,000 x 3) transfer  to SIPP, a transfer  of £175,000 (£25,000  x 7) were made by 
mistake on 20/12/17. He then requested that a further £40,000 be refunded  to him. 
Mattioli Woods  responded by email on the same  day, and said it wasnt possible to refund 
any additional payments to Mr Z. 
Mr Z complained to Mattioli  Woods  and said he had not been told that he wouldnt be able to 
get a full refund of his contributions if the property purchase didnt go ahead. But Mattioli  
Woods rejected Mr Zs complaint so he brought it to this service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and recommended that it was not upheld.  She said,  in 
summary:
In her view, the Key Features documents given to Mr Z outlined  that there  were  
restrictions on how monies  could  be released from a SIPP. She had also seen 
emails between Mr Z and Mattioli Woods which she felt demonstrated that Mr Z was 
aware that the payments  he made were contributions  to the SIPP.
Mattioli Woods  had sent Mr Z a suitability  report dated 30 November 2017,  together  
with a technical appendix. She noted that Mr Z said he didnt receive the letter but 
she was satisfied that the address  was correct and felt she could reasonably  
assume that the letter was sent and delivered;
Mr Z had said that Mattioli Woods should  have advised him of his cooling off rights 
which would have  allowed him to cancel the plan within  30 days of it being  
Ref: DRN49004252established. But the application form Mr Z had signed on 27 November had set out 
the cancellation rights. And the cancellation  rights  had also been mentioned in the 
appendix to the suitability  letter. So she felt he had the opportunity  to be aware of his 
right to cancel.
In any event, the terms stated that the right to cancel was lost where a transaction  
was placed. She considered that the contributions Mr Z made into the scheme on 20 
December meant  that he did not have the right to cancel  after that time.
As Mr Z had confirmed his intention  to transfer  £175,000  into the SIPP,  she felt it was 
reasonable of Mattioli  Woods to decline to refund any further  monies. 
Mr Z does  not agree  with the adjudicators  view.  He says that he was pressured into signing 
the documents at the meeting so didnt have a chance to read the terms and conditions. And 
he says he didnt receive any documents after the meeting. He also said that he made it 
clear to the adviser  that he wouldnt need  the SIPP if the property deal fell through, so the 
adviser should have explained to him that it wasnt possible to return  money paid into a 
pension scheme.
Because the parties have  been unable to agree the complaint has been  referred to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Z has raised  a number of issues. Ive considered  everything he has to say but have 
concentrated my decisions on those  issues which  I find to be central  to his complaint.
Having considered all the evidence, Im not persuaded that it would be reasonable of me to 
ask Mattioli Woods to do anything further. Ill explain  why.
Having reviewed the documentation, I agree with our adjudicator  that it should have been 
reasonably clear to Mr Z that there were restrictions on how money could be released from 
the SIPP. Mattioli Woods says, and I accept,  that a key features document  was given  to Mr Z 
at the initial  discussion, and a further copy was enclosed with the suitability letter. 
Ive seen a copy  of the key features document. It explains that benefits can be taken from 
age 55. And it also sets out that payments not made in line with HM Revenue  & Customs 
directives will be subject to unauthorised payment charges on both member and the 
scheme. 
Ive also seen an email  exchange between Mr Z and Mattioli Woods. And I agree with the 
adjudicator that this exchange indicates that Mr Z was aware that the payments  he had 
made were contributions  to the SIPP.
I note that Mr Z says that he didnt have time to read the documents  at the meeting on 27 
November. However, he accepted  the terms by signing the application  forms and client 
agreement. So this doesnt change  my decision.
Mr Z also says that he didnt receive the suitability letter  dated  30 November 2017 or its 
enclosures. He has commented  that it may not have been sent to him at all. But I note that 
Ref: DRN49004253the suitability letter was correctly addressed. And, on balance, Im persuaded that it was 
sent.
 
Mr Z says that the adviser should have told him that he wouldnt be able to get the money 
back if the property  purchase didnt proceed. But, having  reviewed  the evidence,  I havent  
seen anything to show that Mr Z told the adviser  that he would  need  the money back  in 
those circumstances.  On balance, Im persuaded that if Mr Z had told the adviser,  the 
adviser would  have explained  the situation  to him. 
Mr Z also says that the adviser should have  explained his cancellation rights.  But Im 
satisfied that the cancellation rights were explained  in the application form that Mr Z signed 
on 27 November and in the technical appendix attached to the suitability letter.  And, in any 
event, the cancellation period ended when Mr Z paid the monies into the SIPP.  So he was 
not in a position to cancel the SIPP  after that time.
Mattioli Woods  has refunded £50,000  to Mr Z on the basis that that amount was paid as a 
result of a genuine error. Having considered all the evidence, I agree with the adjudicator 
that it is reasonable that Mattioli Woods has declined to refund further  amounts. And I dont 
require Mattioli Woods to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4900425