K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains that she got incorrect information  from Barclays  Bank UK PLC trading as 
The Woolwich in 2010 when she asked for a rate switch  on her mortgage  account which  The 
Woolwich declined.
background
Ms G has a repayment mortgage with The Woolwich which  she took out in 2005. She has 
been in arrears on the account. In 2010 she applied to get a better rate but she says The 
Woolwich refused this because of her arrears. In 2018, the bank told her that if it would 
assist her in financial  difficulties, it would agree to the rate change.  Ms G wonders why this 
couldnt have  been done in 2010  and if she were on a lower rate, she would have found it 
easier to deal with her arrears. Barclays says that its policy  at the time wasnt  to permit  a 
rate switch  if the mortgage account was in arrears.  
Our adjudicator initially thought that The Woolwich  could have done more to assist Ms G in 
2010 and suggested compensation of £300  for the poor service. But Ms G said that The 
Woolwich sent out a person to review  her financial circumstances  and so our adjudicator felt 
that Barclays had considered Ms Gs application  appropriately and had done nothing  wrong.  
Ms G disagreed saying  in summary that the mortgage rate wasnt  discussed with the agent 
that attended her home from the bank.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G has found a rate switch very beneficial to her when The Woolwich  suggested she do it 
in 2018 and wonders why it couldnt  have  suggested this when she asked about it in 2010. 
The Woolwich says that its policy then was that if the account  was two or more contractual 
payments in arrears  that the rate change  must  be declined until the account had been 
brought up to date.  The bank says that the same policy  applies at present but because of 
changes in regulation it has to consider each  application individually  and in Ms Gs case in 
2018 it did so and agreed a rate change which has helped Ms G.
I have looked  back at the contact notes that The Woolwich  held on the account  from 2010. I 
can see that Ms G was in arrears at that time.  There is a note at the start of the year of a fall 
out with her partner  leading  to a fall in household  income. There  are clearly other debts. In 
July 2010 Ms G asked  about a fixed rate as her existing  fixed  rate was up for renewal in 
September 2010 and she was told what the lenders policy at the time  which  was that whilst 
the mortgage was in arrears it wouldnt be able to do a rate switch.  
I noted that there was in any case an issue as to whether a rate switch  would  have been  
appropriate for Ms G at this time. There is a note in October  2010  that Ms G was selling the 
property and in January  2011 that she had accepted  an offer on the property.  So, if Ms G 
had been able to do a product switch  and her sale had gone  through shortly afterwards as 
intended, she would have likely faced an early repayment charge. This would have placed  
her in a worse financial position  than she would otherwise have been. So, its not clear to me 
that given Ms Gs intentions at the time to sell the house that she would have benefited  from 
Ref: DRN46460482a product switch.  Indeed I wouldnt have expected The Woolwich  to offer a product switch  as 
a means of dealing with Ms Gs financial difficulties if those were the circumstances. I also 
have to bear in mind  that in any case The Woolwichs policy  at that time was not to offer a 
product switch because  of the arrears. So, I dont  believe  I can fairly uphold  that part of the 
complaint. 
I see a reference  in 2010 to a house visit by an agent in January 2010.  As Ms G says there 
was no discussion about the mortgage rate but a discussion about her circumstances and 
her ability to repay the arrears. As Ms G was on her existing mortgage product until 
September, I wouldnt have expected there to be a discussion about a product switch at that 
time. This visit seems  to be part of an ongoing engagement with Ms G in her financial 
difficulties. Ive noted that there is substantial engagement with Ms G and indeed with a 
number of debt advisors  that she got assistance from at that time. I see mention in 2010  by 
the bank of a number  of previous broken  arrangements.  I do see concern by The Woolwich 
that any arrangement  should be affordable. My view is that the notes indicate that in 2010 
the bank was engaging  positively and sympathetically with Ms G. So, I cant say that at the 
time that The Woolwich did anything wrong  and I dont uphold  this complaint  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4646048