K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains about a missing joint account held by her and her husband with Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires).
background
Mrs D recently  found a bank statement for a joint account from Birmingham Midshires which  
showed a balance of over £5,000  on 9 April 1999.  She contacted Birmingham Midshires  
which told her that they didnt have any record of the account and assumed itd been  closed. 
Mrs D didnt think that was good  enough as she didnt remember closing the account.
Birmingham Midshires said that the type of account Mr and Mrs D held had been transferred 
to another bank  in October 2000. It apologised for the delay in responding to their complaint 
and offered to pay them  £75 compensation.  
Our investigator didnt  think Birmingham  Midshires  had done anything  wrong. He thought it 
was likely itd told Mr and Mrs D at the time that it was transferring their account  to another 
banking organisation. And he thought Birmingham Midshires had carried out all the searches 
it could to locate  this account. He also contacted  the other bank but that organisation wasnt 
able to trace  the account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how frustrated Mrs D is and that she feels shes going round  in circles. So I know  
she and Mr D are going  to be disappointed with my decision. 
Mrs D is upset because she thinks they may have lost £5,000. But a bank statement such as 
the one she found is only a snap  shot of the status  of the bank account on the day of the 
statement. It isnt evidence of what is held in the account twenty years later. Or even if the 
account still exists.
I know Mrs D wont agree with me but I think Birmingham Midshires  has done  all it can to 
locate this account. It has carried out a number of searches and it cant  find any trace. 
Unfortunately due to the length of time thats elapsed,  it cant  give Mr and Mrs D or us any 
more information.  And because  banks are not expected to keep records  indefinitely  I cant  
say its at fault for not being  able to do this. 
Looking at all the circumstances  it seems to me its reasonably likely this account was 
transferred to another banking organisation in 2000. And I think its reasonably likely 
Birmingham Midshires explained  this to Mr and Mrs D when this transfer was happening.  But 
due to the passage of time I can understand why they cant remember  this. Particularly as 
shes told us shed  forgotten  about this account  until she came across the statement.
As this complaint  is against Birmingham Midshires I cant comment  on the searches made  
by the other banking  organisation. But if Mr and Mrs D arent happy about the information its 
given to Birmingham  Midshires  or our investigator  they may decide  to raise a complaint with 
the other bank.  
Ref: DRN40138432Birmingham Midshires offered Mr and Mrs D £75 as compensation for the time it took to 
respond to their enquiry. I think thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  If they 
would like to accept the offer our investigator will help them  do so.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 June  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4013843