K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that he received a letter saying his credit  limit would be increased but 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) didnt subsequently agree to proceed.  
Mr B also complains that Barclaycard didnt send him a copy  of the increase letter when  he 
asked and that he received poor service.  
background
Mr B has a Barclaycard credit card. In July 2018  Barclaycard wrote to Mr B and said it was 
planning to increase his credit limit to £1,200.  
But the limit wasnt  increased and Mr B called Barclaycard to find out why. Barclaycard tried 
to increase Mr Bs limit again  but the request was declined and Mr B went on to make a 
complaint. 
Barclaycard responded explaining that the increase it wrote  to him about  was subject to 
checks being completed and it wasnt possible to proceed. Barclaycard agreed  that Mr B had 
been given unclear information during his calls and credited his account  with £25 to 
apologise. Barclaycard also explained that the credit searches it had completed wouldnt be 
visible to third parties. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and an adjudicator looked at what had happened.  
They felt Barclaycard had dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly so didnt ask it to increase its 
offer or take any further action. Mr B remains unhappy and has asked for his case to be 
appealed so its been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  There are several  parts to this complaint 
so Ill deal with each in turn. 
Barclaycard has provided a template  example of the letter it sent Mr B in July 2018  advising 
it was planning  to increase his limit. The letter says Before we increase your credit limit, 
well do a few checks using the latest  information  we have, and the information  held by the 
Credit Reference Agencies Sometimes  it isnt possible for us to increase your limitso we 
may withdraw this offer.  I appreciate that the letter indicates  Barclaycard  was planning to 
increase Mr Bs limit but it warned that this step was subject  to additional checks  and could 
be withdrawn. 
Mr B says he doesnt recognise the example letter hes been sent. But Ive seen 
Barclaycards systems evidence and Im satisfied the template its supplied matches what  
was sent to Mr B in July 2018.  As a result, I think Barclaycard did enough to explain to Mr B 
that any planned increase  was subject to further  checks. 
I can see Mr B called Barclaycard several  times about the planned  increase.  Having  listened  
to the calls, I agree that some of them couldve been handled better  and Mr B wasnt  given  a 
clear explanation at all times. Mr B asked for a copy of the letter Barclaycard had sent him 
about the planned increase and I think  it shouldve been possible to provide him with a copy 
Ref: DRN44435392or a template.  Im please the adjudicator was able to send a copy to Mr B during their 
investigation. But Barclaycard paid Mr B £25 because of the way it handled his calls and the 
service he received and from what Ive seen and heard I think  thats fair. 
Mr B says that hes been unable to find evidence of Barclaycards  credit searches when 
looking at his credit file. Barclaycards  final response says its credit  searches arent visible  to 
third parties, only to Mr B so he feels the absence  of any record  of them on his credit  file 
means the credit checks werent done.  But Im not persuaded thats the case. 
Barclaycard has sent systems records to show what happened  when its looked at 
increasing Mr Bs credit  limit. From what Ive seen Im satisfied  that Barclaycard correctly  
assessed whether  Mr B was eligible for a credit limit increase,  which includes completing a 
credit search. Mr Bs not sent us a full copy of his credit file so I cant say whats on it. But 
even accepting that theres  no soft search  showing from Barclaycard that doesnt mean a 
credit search wasnt completed. As Ive explained,  looking  at Barclaycards systems 
evidence Im satisfied it correctly assessed whether  a credit  limit increase was available  for 
Mr B and decided not to proceed.  
Ive carefully considered  all the available evidence but Ive not seen anything  to indicate 
Barclaycard made a mistake when it decided not to proceed with the credit  limit increase. 
And Im satisfied that the letter Barclaycard sent Mr B explained the planned  increase was 
subject to checks and could be declined. I know Mr B feels  somethings  gone wrong here but 
Ive not found  that to be the case.  As Ive explained above, Barclaycard has shown Mr Bs 
credit limit increase didnt  meet  its criteria  so Ive found it was correct  when  it declined  to go 
ahead. Barclaycard paid Mr B £25 because  of the way it handled his calls and the service he 
received and Im satisfied  thats fair in all the circumstances. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 22 February  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4443539