K820x#14Complaint
Miss B says AXA France IARD (AXA)  mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
This policy, sometimes referred to as Account Cover, was sold by a third-party  acting on 
behalf of the policy insurer. I cant consider this complaint  against  the seller  of the policy  
directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title, was 
regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation 
activities, or was otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
But the seller  was acting as the insurers agent. And the insurer has subsequently 
transferred its business to AXA, so its taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things 
simple, Ill mainly refer to AXA in this decision, unless its clearer  to do otherwise.
Background and summary to complaint
Miss B bought  the policy  in 2004  at the same time as taking  out a store card. She applied  for 
the store card and PPI policy in-store. 
At the time,  Miss B was employed  as a secretary. Shes told us she was entitled to full sick 
pay for less than three months and redundancy pay and had savings worth  less than three 
months pay. Miss Bs said she was in good  health at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for life, accidental death, accident and sickness, unemployment,  
accidental bodily injury  and hospitalisation  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It 
offered to repay  15% of Miss Bs store  card balance in the event  of Miss B being unable  to 
work due to accident and sickness or unemployment. 
The policy also provided price protection and purchase protection  cover. Miss B hasnt 
complained about these  elements of the insurance policy so I wont consider them  further in 
this decision. 
At the time,  the policy cost £1.50 per £100  of the monthly outstanding  balance. The premium  
would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it attracted interest.  
Miss Bs representative made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf. I wont  
restate them all here,  but Ive read and considered them all carefully. In summary, Miss Bs 
representative said:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Bs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN41158092claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means AXA should have told 
Miss B about the poor value; and
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss B and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld   both parties  have seen and 
had the opportunity to provide their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss B disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion for several reasons. Among other things, she didnt understand 
how the adjudicator  could  find in favour  of Lloyds despite accepting there were significant  
failings in how the policy was sold. Miss B also felt that more emphasis should be placed on 
her recollections of what happened.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a decision. After  
considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision setting out why I didnt think it 
should be upheld.  I gave the parties  the opportunity  to respond before I considered the 
complaint again.
Neither AXA nor Miss B added anything in response to my provisional decision.  
My findings
Although Ive only included a summary  of the complaint, Ive read and considered  all the 
evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order  to decide  whats,  in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Relevant considerations
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Bs. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004, before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
Ref: DRN41158093The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992,  and set out standards of good  practice  for the
finance and leasing  industry. Section 4 of the code covered  Credit  Protection
Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed  to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller  (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of the insurer.  
So Im satisfied its right that I should  take these  codes into account when deciding whats,  in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of Miss Bs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Miss Bs complaint. 
Ref: DRN41158094Key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  whats in my opinion fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Miss B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether AXA gave  Miss B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss B and 
AXA, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Did Miss B know  she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Its provided a copy of Miss Bs signed  store  card application form. In the section headed 
Protecting your Account,  she was asked to sign separately if she wanted the policy. Miss B 
signed in the relevant place.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss B knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
Did AXA provide  advice?
AXA says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Miss B hasnt indicated that it did advise 
her. Taking that into account, and looking at what happened when AXA sold Miss B the PPI, 
Im not persuaded that it provided advice. 
This means  AXA didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Miss B. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Miss B to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
The information
AXAs provided a copy of the paperwork it says Miss B would have received, including  the 
policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of probabilities  applied  to 
policies like hers.  
Ref: DRN41158095This sale took place  in-store. I can see the application form described  some of the policys 
benefits. It also informed  Miss B that the premiums would be debited from her account and 
that it would  cost 1.5p per £1 of the outstanding balance. 
The information provided would have given Miss B a broad sense of what the policy  
covered. But it was AXAs responsibility to draw to her attention the important  information   
i.e. the key information  about  the nature of the cover and any significant exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded AXA did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Miss B, including  the need  to maintain premiums  during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that AXA adequately drew to 
her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
So I dont  think AXA gave Miss B sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Bs representative raised a number of 
general points  in regards to the requirements  on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. Ive considered  these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Bs representative considers to be poor  
value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss B about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Miss B has suggested.  And taking into account the law, industry codes  and 
standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair 
or reasonable to impose such requirements on AXA. 
What effect did AXAs shortcomings  have on Miss  B? To what extent did Miss  B 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that AXA didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Miss B. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Miss B suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Miss B would 
have still taken out the policy, had AXA done  things properly. 
Ref: DRN41158096Miss B says she wouldnt  have taken  it out and believes  that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Miss B had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Miss B chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable 
to conclude she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Miss B thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Miss Bs suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Miss B ought reasonably  to have known shed  have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of her outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept that AXA didnt make clear  the on-going cost information. So while Miss B didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim wasnt  dissimilar 
to what shed reasonably have thought from the information she based  her decision to take 
out the policy on and found  acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss B thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Miss B knew  about  or 
ought to have known about  or for which she received advice, treatment or 
counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss B 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that, in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Miss B be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job and other paid work that her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept that theres a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well have 
caused Miss B pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the policy  
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss B from taking out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Miss Bs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest shed have 
been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss B didnt have any pre-existing  
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think she had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Miss B 
Ref: DRN41158097might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely shed have expected  to be able to make  a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.
If Miss B had known  she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and any similar occupation that in the insurers view she might reasonably become qualified 
for, it might have played into her thinking about what shed  have done.  And I accept it may 
have given her pause  for thought  although  its possible she may not have been overly 
concerned given that if she was unable (through disability) to carry on her own occupation 
the chances that shed  be able to take up a similar occupation would  also,  in all probability, 
be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Miss B would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits and savings. And, in those 
circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that shed have taken out the policy in any 
event.  
Miss Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  theres evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but its a relevant  consideration so I take it into account along with 
many other things when  I decide whats in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering the 
purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the approach 
Ive taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss B wouldnt  have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, theres evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumptions  rebutted  in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss B 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  shed have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Miss B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and weve failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she wouldnt have taken 
out the policy. Im not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss B in the position shed have been in if she hadnt 
bought the policy. 
Thats because,  while I accept its possible that she wouldnt have taken out the policy,  Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that shed still have taken out 
Ref: DRN41158098the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude that AXA should pay Miss B compensation,  as that would  put her in a better 
position than she would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Ive also considered whether AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it described 
the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court might conclude  some of AXAs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to act 
fairly and reasonably wasnt because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided 
 but because the overall information AXA gave  Miss B, in the way it did, was insufficient to 
meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 2004 when 
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach a court might take if it were to find AXA negligently 
misrepresented the contract to Miss B and about  the remedy a court might award if it were to 
find that AXA had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  faith.  But this doesnt  persuade  
me to alter my conclusions about  whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I thinks fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Miss B in 
a better  position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats,  in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February  2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4115809