K821x#15The complaint
Mr G complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading  as 118 118 Money)  lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr G took out a single  loan from 118 118 Money  in April 2018.  He borrowed £1,000 and the 
total cost of the credit he agreed  to repay  worked out, with interest, at £2,303.52. He agreed 
to pay the loan by making 24 monthly instalments of £95.98.
The first monthly repayment  was due on 1 May 2018. Mr G made  this repayment on time.  
But it looks  like his repayment problems started  shortly afterwards. Over the next few 
months, Mr G failed  to make his loan repayments.  And, after this had happened repeatedly, 
118 118 Money sold the account to a debt collection agency in November 2018.
Mr G brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it with 118 118 Money. 
In summary,  Mr G didnt think that 118 118 Money made  sufficient checks and it didnt lend 
to him responsibly. Mr G told us that his dealings with 118 118 Money had a detrimental 
impact on his financial position and also on his mental health as he had experienced 
unnecessary stress.  
  
One of our adjudicators looked  at what had happened. 
Our adjudicator thought that whilst  118 118 Money had carried out proportionate checks to 
see if Mr G could afford the loan, the credit report it obtained showed that Mr G had 
outstanding credit and that he had taken out a number of loans shortly before taking this 
loan. Mr Gs existing credit  commitments,  combined  with the repayments for this loan, came  
to more than a 1/3 of his income. So our adjudicator thought it was unlikely he would be able 
to sustainably repay this loan.
Our adjudicator set out detailed directions indicating what  118 118 Money needed to do to 
put things right. 
118 Money disagreed with our adjudicators view. It appreciated what our adjudicator  said 
regarding the percentage of income but said it was important to keep in mind  that the 
purpose of the loan was consolidation. It said the amount 118 118 Money advanced  was 
enough to settle all of the smaller balances  on Mr Gs unsecured  loans. And, even with this, 
the loan was still affordable for Mr G.
One of our other  adjudicators reviewed the file. She came to the same overall view as the 
first adjudicator. 
Mainly, she said:
although Mr G said the loan was for consolidation purposes, 118 118 Money 
shouldve realised  that the repayments werent  sustainable  given  the volume of his 
outstanding credit  commitments when  he took out the loan 
Mr Gs existing monthly credit commitments were around 60% of his declared 
monthly income of £1,600, before other expenses  such as rent, travel and utility  bills 
Ref: DRN45937712were taken into consideration.  This was a significant percentage of his declared 
monthly income going toward credit  repayments
the number  of recently started  loans shown  on his credit report  showed that Mr G 
was in immediate  financial  difficulty
although taking  out this loan would somewhat have  improved  Mr Gs finances in the 
short term, our adjudicator didnt think it would have  consolidated his debt enough to 
make a substantial difference to his overall circumstances  and hed likely have to 
borrow again to keep on top of his finances.
So, as the complaint hasnt been settled, it comes  to me for a decision.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend,  lenders must work out if a borrower can afford  the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower  also has to pay. 
The rules  dont say what a lender should  look at before  agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking  into 
account things  like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan was 
for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit  
history and/or check the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried  out, I need  to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been  done.
If proportionate checks are done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think  
about whether  theres any other  reason  why it would be irresponsible  or unfair  to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised  that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already  struggling with debt that cant  be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these  things in mind  and Ive thought carefully about  the information  118 118 
Money relied  on when  it decided to lend to Mr G. 
118 Money asked Mr G about  his income  and expenses and gathered  information about  
what he was spending his money  on.
It recorded Mr Gs income as £1600 per month.  When looking at what he could afford, 118 
118 Money included an amount for his rent and allowed for Mr G spending £665.55 on other  
credit. It also included an amount of £400  for his other outgoings. Overall, 118 18 Money 
calculated his outgoings would come to £1,285.55.  
This meant that by 118 118 Moneys  reckoning,  Mr G shouldve  had around £314 left over  
which made it look like the monthly  repayments  for his 118 118 Money loan would  be 
comfortably affordable. It worked out that after paying his 118 118 Money  loan, Mr G should 
still have had £218.47. 
Ref: DRN45937713But the discrepancy between what Mr G said he was spending on debt and what  the credit 
file showed makes me think  that the lenders checks werent  proportionate. And I dont think 
that 118 118 Money properly took into account  the information it was able to see on the 
credit check  it carried out. 
Mr Gs actual spending on other credit was significantly more  than the figure 118 118 Money  
was basing its affordability calculation on. 
As far as I can see, its fair to say that Mr G was likely to be spending  more  than £1000 on 
his loans and credit cards  in total,  around  almost two thirds  of his take home pay. 
I think that was a clear  warning sign that Mr G might be experiencing financial difficulty. 
I've taken into account that Mr G said the purpose of the 118 118 Money loan was to 
consolidate some  loans  in other words, to pay off other debt in order  to help reduce his 
monthly outgoings.
But Mr Gs recent borrowing track record suggested  he was repeatedly borrowing. Although 
hed just repaid  one small loan which had been costing him £38 per month, this was more 
than offset by information which showed he had started at least  4 new loans within  the 
previous month  and he was also still paying  for other outstanding credit.  
The fact Mr G had taken  out several  recent  loans looks to me like a sign he was facing 
financial difficulties. 
Thinking about  all of this information, I dont think 118 118 Money  could reasonably have 
satisfied itself that providing this loan to Mr G wouldnt  put him in a worse  position by 
increasing his overall debts. 
Given his recent borrowing, there  was a real risk that Mr G might use this loan to help him 
meet his immediate need to make loan repayments with the result this loan would simply 
add to his existing debt. 
And even  if Mr G had used this loan to repay  some  existing  debt,  I dont think 118 118 
Money had sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved his overall position sufficiently to 
achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation.  
I think the concerns  Ive mentioned are borne out by the fact that theres  no clear information 
showing that Mr G used  this loan for its stated purpose and he quickly  ran into difficulty  with 
the repayments on this loan. 
So for these reasons, Im upholding this complaint.  
Putting things  right 
118 118 Money should buy back the outstanding debt sold if able to do so and then take the 
following steps. If 118 118 Money is not able to buy the debt back  then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner  to achieve the results outlined below.
A) remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on this loan, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr G as though they had been repayments of the principal. If this 
results in Mr G having made  overpayments  then the amount  overpaid  should be refunded 
Ref: DRN45937714with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  
would have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled.
B) If there is still an outstanding capital  balance then 118 118 Money should try to agree  an 
affordable repayment  plan with Mr G. 118 118 Money shouldnt  pursue outstanding balances 
made up of any principal it has already written-off.
C) Any adverse information  recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to the loan should  be 
removed.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires 118 118 Money to deduct  tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money should give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) to 
take the steps set out above to put things right for Mr G. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2021.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4593771