K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1994. Mr and Mrs V say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
background
I sent Mr and Mrs V and Santander  a provisional  decision on 3 June 2019 to explain why I 
wasnt intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional decision I set out 
below:
There isnt very much information available about the sale. Mr and Mrs V have said it wasnt 
made clear to them that the PPI was optional, but they havent given us much detail about 
what happened or what was said when the policy was sold. And Santander hasnt been able 
to send us any evidence from the sale showing Mr and Mrs V chose to take the PPI. Due to 
the amount of time that has passed since the sale though, I dont think this is unreasonable.
But what  it does means is that, because of the limited information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that Santander  made Mr and Mrs V think they had to 
have the PPI or added  it without their knowledge.  So I think  its likely Santander made  it 
clear to them that they had a choice about the PPI and that Mr and Mrs V chose to take it, 
knowing they didnt  have to.
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs V, so it had to check  that it was right 
for them. And, based on what  Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Vs circumstances at the time, I think 
that it was. For example,  the PPI couldve  paid out for longer than its likely Mr and Mrs V 
wouldve been entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant they didnt need to rely on any 
savings they had to make their mortgage repayments if they werent earning.
Mr and Mrs V initially said that Mrs V wasnt working at the time of the sale,  and then later 
said she was working as a secretary but for less than 16 hours per week.  But theyve not 
been able to send us any evidence to support this. Santander has sent us paperwork from 
Mr and Mrs Vs re-mortgage in 2003 which  shows Mrs V started as a secretary  after 1994, 
and that the company she was working for started trading after 1994 as well. Santander also 
said that Mr and Mrs V had told them that Mrs V was working full time at a different job in 
1994.
I think its understandable that Mr and Mrs V havent  been able to give clear answers on 
where Mrs V was working,  as the sale took place so long ago. But based on the evidence I 
have I think its likely  Mrs V was working,  and for more than 16 hours per week,  when the 
PPI was sold in 1994.  And Mr and Mrs V dont appear to have been  affected by any of the 
other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  So I still think  the PPI was right for them.
As well as checking it was right for them, Santander had to give Mr and Mrs V clear  
information about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave them  wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment,  and Mr and Mrs Vs 
property couldve been at risk if theyd failed  to make their repayments. So I think they 
couldve found the protection the policy  offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think 
it was right for them,  it seems  like the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs V if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mr and Mrs V off taking it out.
Ref: DRN40314522Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs V.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs V because:
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs V about that. Because Santander didnt  tell 
Mr and Mrs V, that was unfair.
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
I said Id consider any further information  Mr and Mrs V or Santander sent in.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Vs case.
Neither Mr and Mrs V nor Santander sent in any further  information.  And so I see no reason 
to change the conclusions I set out in my provisional  decision.  So I still dont think the PPI 
was mis-sold, but I do still think Santander should  pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr 
and Mrs V, for the same  reasons.
what the business needs  to do
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs V any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs V any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs V the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs V 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs V can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
Ref: DRN40314523my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs V.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs V any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 July 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4031452