K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited (trading as 
Advantage) mis-sold them a single premium  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  in 
2007 when they applied  for a secured joint loan.
background
Mr and Mrs F complain  they did not know their secured loan had PPI attached  to it. They  
only found out when they settled the loan.  Mr and Mrs F initially  complained to the broker 
company, which  I will call Company B and they later complained to Morgan Stanley, the 
lender. 
Morgan Stanley said it did not sell the PPI or the loan; it said both were  sold by Company B 
in a face to face meeting.  It produced documents completed around the time of the loan 
which showed Company Bs involvement  in the whole process. Morgan Stanley concluded it 
did not sell the PPI so it was not responsible for looking at the PPI mis-sale complaint  for Mr 
and Mrs F. 
Our adjudicator thought the PPI had been  sold by Company B and so Morgan Stanley was 
not responsible  for looking at the PPI mis-sale complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
I issued my provisional decision in February 2019  where I explained why I did not think  
Morgan Stanley was responsible for looking at this PPI mis-sale complaint.  We sent a copy  
of my provisional decision to both parties  and invited  them to comment. I did not receive any 
new evidence or further comments  from either party, so I see no reason to change  the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Fs case.
The first thing I need to decide is whether Morgan Stanley is responsible for the sale of the 
PPI policy. If I decide it is, then I can decide  whether  the sale happened as it should have 
done. If I dont think Morgan Stanley was responsible for the sale of the policy to Mr and Mrs 
F, then Im not able to say that Morgan Stanley did anything wrong. This means I cannot 
uphold the mis-sale complaint against  Morgan Stanley.
In this case, I am going to say Morgan Stanley is not responsible for the PPI sale so I will not 
be upholding the mis-sale  complaint against  it. I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs F, so I 
will explain  why.
Morgan Stanley told us it did not sell the loan and PPI to Mr and Mrs F; and as Mr and Mrs F 
said they did not know PPI had been  added to their loan,  I have  been  looking carefully  at all 
the documents which were created at around  the time of the sale to see what most likely 
happened in 2007.
Ref: DRN42268222Mr and Mrs F said they initially  had some trouble in arranging finance with another  bank, so 
they approached  Company B to ask it to arrange  an appropriate loan. I have seen  a copy  of 
Mr and Mrs Fs loan application form which has Company Bs logo at the top. The form says 
they are asking for a £28,000  loan for a term of 120 months. There  is a section  headed 
Optional  Payment Protection Insurance and next to that the word Yes  has been entered.  
So I can assume the PPI was discussed  and probably applied for at the same  time as the 
loan. 
I have also seen a Customer Fact Find to assess Payment Protection Demands  and 
Needs; this has Mr and Mrs Fs name and address at the top of the form. It asks a series of 
questions to assess Mr and Mrs Fs financial  needs.  It has not been signed by Mr and Mrs F 
- so I dont know if they saw it - but the form is again headed with Company Bs logo and it 
does say it has recommended  PPI cover for life, accident, sickness  and unemployment for 
Mr F only. So I think it is reasonable to assume that Morgan Stanley was not present at the 
meeting or involved in recommending  the PPI to Mr and Mrs F at the time they applied for 
their loan. I have also seen several documents which tend to prove Mr and Mrs F were taken 
through the whole loan process  by their broker company from beginning to end. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Morgan Stanley sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs F. 
As I think  Morgan Stanley  wasnt responsible  for the PPI sale,  it follows that it also wasnt 
responsible for carrying out the sale properly.  So Im not going  to uphold this PPI mis-sale 
complaint against  Morgan  Stanley.  
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs F but this Service cannot take this complaint any further 
against Morgan  Stanley.
my final decision
My final decision is that Morgan Stanley Bank  International Limited  is not responsible for this 
PPI sale and I do not uphold this PPI mis-sale  complaint  against  Morgan Stanley Bank  
International Limited.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 May 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4226822