K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc closed his credit  card account without notice due 
to dormancy. He wants  to be issued with a new card and compensated for his time and call 
costs.
background
Bank of Scotland said in its final response that itd written  to Mr S on 23 February  2018  to 
advise him the account was going  to be closed due to dormancy. It asked him either  to use 
the card or to contact it if he wanted the account to remain open. As it didnt  hear from him it 
assumed he was happy for the closure to go ahead.  Due to the time that has elapsed  and 
the fact that the terms and conditions become invalid it cannot reopen the account. Doing so 
may also cause it to appear on a report which would cause transactions to be declined.  But 
Mr S can reapply for a new account  in branch, online or on the phone if he wishes.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
The terms and conditions of the account say Bank of Scotland may end the 
agreement and will normally give at least two months notice. But it may end it 
immediately in exceptional circumstances.
Here Bank of Scotland has provided  a template copy  of the letter  it issued to Mr S on 
23 February 2018. It explained  that as the account  hadnt  been used for some time it 
planned to close  the account.  It also explained what Mr S needed to do by 28 April to 
keep the account open. As no transactions were  made before that April date the 
account was closed on 2 May 2018.
Mr S says he didnt receive  this letter. But the banks system  records show it was 
issued on 23 February 2018. Mr S also says he shouldve  been sent an online secure 
message and if Bank of Scotland had done  so he wouldve  used  the account and it 
wouldnt have been closed. But the account  terms and conditions do not specify  what  
method would be used to contact  Mr S. And it was reasonable for the bank to send a 
letter. Its also not obliged to send a reminder.  
Bank of Scotland hasnt done  anything wrong. It closed  the account  in line with the 
accounts terms and conditions. It also says that as theres no bank error it couldnt 
agree to award Mr S any compensation. Thats fair and reasonable. He cant  ask it to 
pay any compensation. 
Mr S doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. He says as Bank of Scotland 
cannot physically  prove it posted the letter then it wasnt sent out. He isnt prepared to 
reapply for the credit card.  
Bank of Scotland has also confirmed that if a customer opts for secure mail via online 
banking only statements would be sent in this way and all other correspondence is sent by 
post.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN45546742Bank of Scotland has provided  a copy of the template dormancy closure letter  and its system  
notes show the letter was sent to Mr S on 28 February 2018. Although theres  no proof  of 
posting, as it isnt obliged to send  the letter by recorded delivery,  Im satisfied on balance 
that this letter was sent to Mr S on that date.
Its unfortunate if Mr S didnt receive  Bank of Scotlands letter  of 28 February 2018. But thats  
not something that I can hold it responsible for. In addition  Bank  of Scotland wasnt obliged 
to send a reminder  or to contact Mr S by secure  mail via online banking.
As required by the accounts terms and conditions the letter  gave Mr S two months notice of 
the account closure and told him what he needed to do if he wanted  to keep the account 
open.
When Bank of Scotland didnt hear from Mr S and no transaction  had been put through the 
account by the specified  date I think it acted reasonably  closing the account in May 2018 
assuming Mr S didnt  object to that happening.
Ive also seen nothing  to suggest Bank of Scotland offered  to compensate  Mr S and as its 
said it hasnt made  an error  warranting compensation. I think  thats fair. 
Mr S wants  the account reinstated. But Bank of Scotland has said this isnt now possible 
given the time thats gone by. And even if it were possible its likely transactions  would be 
declined on it. But it has said Mr S can reapply for a new account if he wishes. That seems 
reasonable.
Taking everything into account  I dont think on balance that Bank  of Scotland  has done 
anything wrong. Its communicated with Mr S appropriately and closed the account in line 
with the accounts terms and conditions.  And I dont  think  I can require it to do any more 
including reinstating  the account  or paying compensation as Mr S would like. 
And I dont  see any compelling reason to change  the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4554674