K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that First Central Insurance Management Limited registered a default  
against her with credit reference agencies.
background
Miss P had a car insurance  policy bought  through First Central. Some of the actions 
described below were carried out by First Centrals  agents on their behalf, but for ease of 
reference, Ill simply refer below to First Central.
On 2 June 2017, Miss P called  First Central to query an increase to her premium  following a 
change of address.  The outcome of that call was that Miss P cancelled her policy.
After some discussion  during the call, Miss P accepted that she needed to pay First Central 
just over £100 to cancel  her policy. She gave  them her card details but the call cut off before 
First Central could confirm payment. In fact, the card payment  was declined.
Around two weeks  later, First Central contacted Miss P to ask her to pay the outstanding 
amount. She says she was unaware  until this point that the original attempted  payment had 
been declined.
Miss P asked First Central to call her back. She says she wanted  them  to check  the amount 
owed. They say she said she didnt have a payment method with her at the time and asked  
to pay later.
First Central say they attempted to call Miss P several times in the following days  and left 
voicemail messages  on most of those  occasions. Miss P says she never received any 
voicemails or had any missed calls.
First Central say there were  several  more attempts  to contact Miss P in June, July, August 
and September  by phone,  text, email and letter. 
They say Miss P was sent an email on 8 September  2017 which warned her they would 
register a default  against her if the debt wasnt settled by 20 October  2017.  
First Centrals  records show  further contact with Miss P in later September  and early  
October 2017. They say a payment  plan was agreed but Miss P didnt  confirm  her payment 
method and the first due payment wasnt received.
On 20 October 2017, First Central registered  a default against Miss P with the credit  
reference agencies.
Miss P says she realised  the default  had been registered some time later,  when it became 
apparent her credit rating had been affected.  She complained to First Central  in September  
2018.
First Central admitted that they should have contacted Miss P much sooner after the phone  
call of 2 June 2017 and the declined card payment. Theyve given Miss P £50 in 
compensation for this.
Ref: DRN48488472However, they said theyd  given Miss P adequate  time and opportunity to settle the debt 
before they registered the default, in line with their processes and procedures, and they 
stood by their decision  to do so.
Miss P was unhappy  with this outcome and complained  to us. Our investigator  looked into it 
and didnt think First Central  had done anything  wrong.
Miss P disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P has now paid off her debt to First Central, so her credit file will show  that shes settled 
the debt. As I understand it, she wants  First Central to remove  the default record  from her 
credit reference file altogether. She says she didnt receive many of the communications  
First Central say they sent to her about the debt.  And so its unfair  that her credit rating has 
been affected negatively by this episode.
Im afraid I cant agree with Miss P. I cant see that First Central have  done  anything wrong 
in the way theyve handled her debt. And I cant see how Miss P could  maintain  that she 
wasnt aware she owed  the money and/or she wasnt aware of the consequences if she 
didnt settle the debt.  Ill explain  why in more detail.
Miss P says she never received voicemails  from First Central. She says she didnt receive 
letters they say they sent. And she says she didnt get emails they say they sent. She also 
says she replied to at least one email  but it had been sent from an inbox address which no-
one monitored,  so First Central missed  her response.
Im not convinced Miss P didnt receive  all of those communications.  And if she didnt,  Im 
not sure I could hold First Central responsible  for that. However,  I dont think  any of that is 
crucial to my decision in this case because  there  are a number of contacts between First 
Central and Miss P which  arent  disputed. In my view these alone show  that Miss P was 
aware of the debt and should have  taken steps  to settle it.
Theres no dispute about the telephone conversation on 2 June 2017. Miss P agrees to pay 
the outstanding amount to First Central   and gives them her card details. 
Theres no dispute First Central  contacted  Miss P on 15 June 2017 and told her the payment 
hadnt gone through. At this point, Miss P was aware  that she still owed money  to First 
Central. 
Theres also no dispute that Miss P contacted First Central  in late September  and early 
October 2017  before  the default  was registered - to discuss how the debt could be cleared. 
And theres  no dispute that she didnt begin  to repay the debt until 2018. In general,  the 
relevant guidance from the Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO)  is that businesses may 
register a default  if payments  arent  made for three months.
So, missed  communications or not, Im satisfied Miss P knew before  the default was 
registered that she was in debt to First Central. 
Ref: DRN48488473And Im satisfied from the records of the contact in September  and October 2017 that she 
knew the consequences of not settling the debt.  The contact records  show  that at that point 
Miss P had agreed a means to pay off the debt over time. Shes  confirmed this herself.
Miss P says that when she agreed  monthly  repayments in October 2017, she received no 
reply from First Central to confirm the arrangement. First Centrals records suggest the 
contact dropped when Miss P didnt confirm  the method  of payment as requested. 
But in either case,  Miss P has to accept some responsibility for ensuring the payments were 
made. She must have been  aware  in October  2017 that she hadnt made arrangements  for 
the payments  to be made  and that no payments were ever taken from any of her bank 
accounts.
In summary,  Miss P owed money to First Central from 2 June 2017. She didnt pay it back  
until 2018, when  she paid it off in monthly  instalments. From  15 June 2017 at the latest, she 
knew she owed the money. And she knew First Central were  asking her to pay her debt. She 
took no steps to try to repay the money  until 2018.
So Im satisfied there was nothing  unfair  or unreasonable in First Central registering Miss Ps 
failure to settle  that debt with the credit reference agencies  after 20 October  2017.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4848847