K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 2009 with a mortgage. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs E if she couldnt  work because of accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Es case.
From the evidence I have  seen I dont think that Nationwide recommended  the policy  to 
Mrs E, so the key question I need to consider is:
Did Nationwide give Mrs E information that was clear, fair and not misleading  in order to 
put her in a position where she could  make an informed choice about the insurance she 
was buying?
If the answer  to this question is no, then I need  to consider whether Mrs E is worse off as a 
result. That is, would she have done  something different  such  as not taking out the policy  
if there had been  no problems  with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Es complaint. Ive set out my reasons  below.
Mrs E accepts that she probably chose to buy the PPI. The mortgage application summary 
completed at the time suggests Mrs E was undecided about taking the cover, but that she 
understood she would be responsible for the mortgage repayments if she couldnt  work. 
After the initial mortgage  discussion, Nationwide sent Mrs E a quote  for various insurances, 
including the PPI. It seems the PPI was free for the first three  months, after which the 
premiums became due.
On the subsequent mortgage offer, PPI was listed as Optional Insurance and the document 
said there would be a free period of three months.  It also said:
Before any free period ends, you will be notified of the monthly premiums payable  
thereafter.
Ref: DRN48245312So from what Ive seen,  I think Nationwide  made  Mrs E aware  the PPI was optional and she 
chose to take it.
It seems  Mrs E was made aware of the policys cost (once the free period had ended) before 
she agreed to take it. So I think Mrs E knew what she would have to pay and found it 
acceptable. The policy was competitively  priced and apparently affordable.  So I think it 
unlikely Mrs E would  have made a different decision if better  information  about the cost had 
been provided.
Mrs E satisfied the eligibility requirements  of the policy when taking it out.
I cant be sure that Nationwide pointed out to Mrs E all of the things that the policy didnt 
cover. Mrs E has told us she has a medical condition that wouldnt have been covered by the 
policy during the first twelve  months.  
But I understand that Mrs Es condition is controlled  by medication and, in general, hasnt 
affected her ability  to work. So even if Nationwide had pointed  out the policys  exclusion to 
her, I think its unlikely that this wouldve changed their decision to buy the PPI. 
Mrs E says she was entitled  to sick pay from her employer if she couldnt work because  of 
sickness or accident, and that she had some savings and a pension.  But as Ive already 
said, I dont think Nationwide advised  Mrs E on whether or not to take the PPI. So it wouldnt 
have had to check  whether  her existing arrangements  meant  the policy was suitable for her. 
Overall, therefore, Im not persuaded that Mrs Es existing  arrangements  meant the PPI 
policy was mis-sold.
In summary,  I think Mrs E agreed to take out the cover, knowing she didnt have to. And 
given it provided  broadly  what  I think she expected  when she agreed to it, I dont think she 
would have made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if she had been 
better informed.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4824531