K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Mr J says Northern  Bank Limited  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Northern Bank had to make Mr J aware  the PPI was optional and gain his consent before 
adding the policy to his card. I cant be certain  what was said at the time Mr J applied for his 
card and PPI, but Northern Bank  has provided  a copy of the available paperwork. The 
application form that was completed at the time Mr J applied for his credit card had a 
separate section  for PPI where the policy was selected before  the form was printed. I think  
its likely  the option  to take the policy was made during a conversation Mr J had with a 
Northern Bank representative.  Mr J also signed the document in agreement  with taking the 
PPI separately to agreeing to take the card itself. So I think  Mr J would have been aware the 
PPI was optional,  and he chose to take it out.
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mr J so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him. Mr J has told us he was entitled  to generous  sick pay when he took the policy. He also 
had savings, death in service cover,  and redundancy cover. But the PPI would have paid out 
in addition to Mr Js sick pay, and for longer than he would have received full pay. It would 
also have protected  Mr Js savings and covered him for circumstances his other policies 
wouldnt have.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Js circumstances  at the time he wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information Northern Bank gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for him if something went wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But Northern Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because: 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because Northern Bank didnt tell 
Mr J, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Bank  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium. Northern Bank has now revised this offer 
Ref: DRN43850472because the way it previously worked this out wasnt quite right.  I think  that is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr J has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mr J any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4385047