K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) has registered  a 
default on his credit file incorrectly,  and without  providing the required notice beforehand.
background
Mr S took a loan for £1000 from Satsuma in February 2017.  It was repayable in 12 monthly 
instalments of £166. Mr S fell into difficulties repaying the monthly instalments as they 
became due in around August 2017. On 2 October  2017 Satsuma  says it sent Mr S a default 
notice.
Mr S called Satsuma in November 2017 and began the process of setting up a repayment 
arrangement of £75 per month. This was not completed at the time and Mr S made no 
payments to the account until 27 January 2018 when he paid £1. Mr S sent an email to 
Satsuma on 8 December  2017 asking why he was getting default  notifications as he had an 
arrangement to pay. Satsuma added a default  to his credit  file. The default was dated 13 
December 2018.
In early January  2018 Mr S contacted Satsuma about the default  and the collections 
department agreed  to remove  it. This wasnt actioned correctly and the default returned on to 
Mr Ss credit  file. In May 2018  Satsuma  again  agreed to remove  the default  and offered  to 
pay Mr S £250 to reflect the inconvenience.  By this stage Mr S had set up a repayment 
arrangement for £50 per month.  Satsuma explained  to Mr S that his account was defaulted 
internally by Satsuma and as such the default was automatically referred to the credit  
reference agencies  every month but there was a note for this to be cancelled  provided Mr S 
kept to the arrangement to pay. In June 2018 Mr S lost his wallet  and was late making the 
repayment and so the default was re-applied. Mr S says this is unfair.
Mr Ss complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She didnt think  that 
Satsuma had done anything wrong by reporting the default because Mr Ss account was in 
default as he had not been making  contractual repayments and he was then late in making a 
repayment under the arrangement to pay. She thought it was reasonable for the default  to 
be dated December  2017 as this was the date the account initially went  into default. So she 
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld.
Mr S didnt agree with that assessment. He said that it wasnt  fair that the default was 
applied because of such a short delay in making  the agreed  repayment in exceptional 
circumstances. He didnt  agree  that he had been  given  proper  notice of the intention  to apply 
the default and the December default was always an error. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been  passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last 
stage of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mr S and by Satsuma. And where  the evidence is unclear, or there  are conflicts, I have 
made my decision based on the balance of probabilities.  In other words I have looked at 
Ref: DRN47637842what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide  what I 
think is more likely  to have happened. I have  listened to the call that Mr S had with our 
adjudicator where  he fully explained why he did not agree that Satsuma had acted fairly and 
I have read all his emails to this service and the notes of his contact with Satsuma.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
I dont think there is any dispute here that Mr S borrowed money from Satsuma and was 
unable to repay that loan when it was due. It appears that Mr S fell into difficulties in August 
after he lost his job.
A lender is required, by the Consumer Credit Act, to provide  14 days  notice  before an 
account is defaulted. A Default Notice was sent to Mr S on 2 October  2017.  I can see that 
this is the period that Satsuma provided to Mr S. 
I can see that Mr S called Satsuma to offer payment  and made a partial payment on 6 
October 2017. This was not enough to bring the account up to date and given Mr Ss 
circumstances it is unlikely that he would have been able to prevent the default from being  
applied. However,  Mr S said he would call to set up an arrangement  once his circumstances 
were clearer.  On 3 November 2017 Mr S called to complete an income and expenditure form 
but this was not concluded as the call was terminated. Mr S didnt call back  or make  any 
repayments to the account.
It is clear from the information  that Mr S knew that Satsuma were looking to default the 
account in December 2017, but he says that he thought a repayment plan was in place  and 
he did email Satsuma to clarify  the position.
I dont agree with Mr S that the default applied in December  2017 was an error. The account  
was in arrears and Mr S was not making  his contractual monthly repayments of £166 and 
was not in a position  to bring the account up to date. He had not arranged a repayment plan 
and was not making the agreed  repayments. However, Satsuma did agree to remove  the 
default in January 2018 following Mr S making  further contact and so I think  it would be fair 
and reasonable for it to have taken  steps to do so.  
There were clearly problems with Satsuma removing the default and I agree that it was right 
to compensate Mr S for its failings and to do what it had promised. Satsuma explained in its 
letter of 9 May 2018 the difficulty with removing the default and stated,
I would like to explain  that as your loan has Defaulted  on our internal systems,  a 
Default will be shared  to the Credit  Reference Agencies on a monthly basis, however, I have 
arranged for an automatic  amendment to be put in place to prevent this Default showing with 
the Credit Agencies. This being said, should you not adhere  to the arrangement you 
currently have in place,  a Default  may be then be reported. (sic)
 
Ref: DRN47637843It seems  that because of the issue referred to above  the credit file was not automatically 
amended at the beginning of June and Mr S explains that the default was showing on his 
credit file on 6 June. However, Mr S was then late in making a repayment at the end of June 
2018 and so the default now shows on his credit file backdated to the original default in 
December 2017.
I can understand why Mr S thinks this is unfair and why he feels that Satsuma hasnt acted 
in accordance with the proper procedures. But I think  the default was issued correctly in 
December as Mr S wasnt making  the required contractual  monthly  payments and hadnt 
brought the account up to date. Satsuma considered that the default had been  entered 
correctly but it did agree  to stand by its offer remove the default but this was on the condition  
that Mr S kept to the repayment arrangement. This was made  very clear to Mr S.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr S and I dont doubt that he had a 
genuine difficulty with his debit card. But I consider that Satsuma provided him with sufficient  
notice that the default would be applied, and that the date of the default fairly reflects his 
failure to repay his borrowing  when it was due. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Provident Personal Credit Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4763784