K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) mis-sold 
her an unemployment  insurance policy.
background
In 1999, while in the process of obtaining a mortgage, Miss B met with an adviser from L&G 
and agreed to take out an income protection insurance policy  with unemployment cover.  The 
policy would pay a monthly benefit  in the event that Miss B was unable  to work due to illness  
or injury. The unemployment cover  meant  that the policy would also, after a waiting period of 
four weeks,  pay a monthly benefit for up to twelve months in the event that Miss B was made 
involuntarily unemployed.
In 2018, Miss B complained to L&G that the unemployment cover  had been mis-sold. She 
said that her job as a teacher had been secure and she hadnt needed the cover.
L&G didnt uphold  the complaint. It was satisfied that the recommendation to take out the 
cover had been appropriate.  It considered  that Miss B had chosen  to accept the 
recommendation but had been under no obligation  to do so and had been  free to cancel the 
policy if she decided she didnt want it.
Miss B was unhappy  at L&Gs response. She referred her complaint to us. She said that at 
the time of sale she was employed in an over-subscribed grammar  school  where there was 
no real risk of redundancy. She therefore considered the unemployment cover had been  
unsuitable for her.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In his opinion,  the 
recommendation had been suitable  and if Miss B had decided  she didnt want  the policy she 
could have cancelled  it at any time.
Miss B didnt accept  the investigators  findings. She said shed trusted the adviser  to make 
an impartial recommendation but hadnt been  made aware that the adviser stood to benefit 
financially from selling the insurance. She said shed never regarded unemployment cover 
as a priority her given her employment  situation. She wanted her premiums  to be refunded.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The evidence from the time of sale shows that Miss B wanted to protect  her income  so that 
she was still able to meet her monthly  mortgage repayments even if she were unable to work 
due to long-term illness or injury. Miss B doesnt  appear to dispute the appropriateness of 
this type of cover. The adviser  recorded  that Miss B also wanted unemployment cover and 
provided a quote  which  was inclusive  of this.
Miss B has explained that such cover was unnecessary because her job was entirely secure. 
However, while Miss B might have felt this at the time,  things can change and her 
Ref: DRN48167482employment wasnt guaranteed. Given that she was entering  into a long-term financial 
commitment, I consider  it reasonable for the adviser to recommend that Miss B take out an 
unemployment insurance policy.
Furthermore, Miss B was under no obligation  to accept the recommendation. If she 
genuinely thought there was very little prospect of ever losing her job, she could have 
decided against  taking out the policy. Or she could have cancelled it at any time since.
Miss B says she didnt  realise the adviser had a financial interest in selling her the 
unemployment cover. However, I can see that the adviser provided Miss B with an 
illustration showing the cost of the recommended policies  and this illustration included details 
of the fees payable to the adviser.
Miss B has drawn attention to a reference in the policy  which says it would be reviewed 
every five years. She says she received no such review. However, this review  is conducted  
by L&G to determine whether the premium  needs adjusting to deliver  the insured benefit.  It 
was not a promise by L&G to review  Miss Bs personal insurance needs every  five years.
Miss B hasnt argued  that she was forced  into taking out the unemployment cover. Nor has 
she argued that she was unaware of the nature  of the cover.  Furthermore, if Miss B had 
been made redundant at any time while the policy was in operation,  I have no reason to 
believe it wouldnt have paid her benefit.
Given that Im satisfied the advisers  recommendation was appropriate, and that Miss B 
voluntarily agreed to accept that recommendation and continue with the policy for nineteen 
years, I see no reasonable grounds for saying Miss B should be awarded a refund of 
premiums.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4816748