K820x#14complaint
Mr P, represented by Mr W, makes a number of complaints about HSBC  UK Bank Plc, 
trading as first direct, handling of his attempts to register a Lasting  Power of Attorney (LPA) 
on his account.
background
Mr P tried to register the LPA on his first direct account but says it refused to accept it. He 
says he was asked  for a form to be completed about the Attorney and that first direct also 
wished to carry out a credit search  on the Attorney. Mr P says he took the required forms 
into a branch as directed by first direct but was later told the forms needed  authenticating.  
He says he spoke  to first direct about this and was told the requirements were made in line 
with Money Laundering and Financial Regulation rules but it couldnt say which parts of 
those rules relate to this issue. 
Mr P says the information required about  the Attorney is not relevant and there  is no reason 
to carry out a credit check on him. He says first directs actions have affected his health  and 
it had no right to ask for the information  it did. Mr P says he wants the LPA registered and 
compensation for whats happened as well as evidence of first directs  right to request  this 
information.
first direct says it followed its rules on knowing a customer and says it requires the Attorney 
to complete an identification form and provide identity  evidence. It says Mr P and Mr W 
made clear that they would not complete the form. first direct says it gave Mr P the LPA 
documents that need completing  but says they were handed in without certification and 
provided Mr P with a list of persons that could certify them. It later said it would complete a 
soft search on the Attorney rather than a full credit  search.
Mr P brought his complaint to us but our investigator  thought  first direct had dealt fairly with 
the complaint.  The investigator thought first direct had applied  its judgement  in line with its 
own rules about registering a LPA and that it wasnt our role to tell a business what those 
rules should  be. The investigator thought  first direct had told Mr P what  documents  were 
required and that they should  be certified. And that the Attorney had refused to complete 
part of the one that related to him. The investigator  didnt  think there was any record  of Mr P 
being told to take the documents into a branch and also accepted that first direct hadnt been 
able to point to a specific  part of the Money Laundering Act relating to these issues. The 
investigator thought  first direct were entitled  to decide if it wished to continue  a business  
relationship with a customer as it had now closed Mr Ps account.
Mr P doesnt  accept that view and makes a number of points in response to the investigators 
view. In summary he says the investigators view is bias and has ignored the impact this has 
had on him and that the Money  Laundering  Act doesnt apply to LPAs. He also says the 
calls between him and first direct should be listened to and that it cant  ignore the law. Mr P 
says not everyone  has access  to persons  that can certify a LPA and that first directs 
requirements for information  about the Attorney are not relevant. He says other businesses  
have correctly registered the LPA.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
Ref: DRN45480492overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr P will be disappointed  by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened.
Ive no doubt this whole process has been a difficult experience  for Mr P and I accept that he 
has health problems.  I also accept that he has been left frustrated by the approach of first 
direct compared to the approach taken  by other businesses  since  his first direct  account was 
closed. I can see that the LPA has been registered on a new account and I accept that Mr P 
will no doubt  question why different businesses have different procedures for dealing  with 
LPAs.
But I make  clear to Mr P that we are not the regulator of banks and building  societies and so 
I think its up to a business to decide  what its approach to the registration of LPAs is and 
what its interpretation of the various rules and requirements its subject  to is. Im satisfied  that 
such decisions are for a business  to decide  upon  when  exercising its commercial  judgement  
and in making sure it complies with all regulatory requirements. I can see that first direct 
required the documents to be certified and that the Attorney completes a separate form. Im 
satisfied that the Attorney  refused to complete large  parts of that form and that the 
documents were  not certified. So In those circumstances I dont think  first direct made a 
mistake or acted unfairly  by returning the documents and by refusing to register  the LPA as 
Mr P had not complied  with its requirements.
I appreciate Mr P says that there was a cost involved in having the documents  certified and 
that there  was no need to do so. But whilst Im sorry to disagree with Mr P Im satisfied that 
first direct has followed its procedure and as I have  explained its not our role to decide if that 
procedure is fair or unfair. 
I accept that first direct could have been more  specific  about its requirements when Mr P 
challenged it about why it was requesting the information. But I dont think  that lack of 
specific information had a significant  impact  here or that it would have made any difference  
to the outcome, even if first direct  had explained in more  detail why it wanted for example the 
information about the Attorney.
I appreciate that Mr P will remain unhappy with what has happened and I accept he has 
raised a number of further questions and points about what took place. I accept that there 
will be unanswered questions, as Mr P believes that first direct has ignored the law. But as I 
have explained  it is not our role to adjudicate on such matters  as I think  it would be for a 
court to make such a determination. I also accept that Mr P believes that we should listen  to 
the calls between the parties  but I dont think that is necessary or that they are relevant. I say 
that as the main issue here is the request for documents to be certified  and information  
about the Attorney.  And I dont need  to listen to the calls to make  a decision on those issues.
I can see that Mr P has opened a new account with a different business after first direct  gave 
notice that it intended to close  his account. I am not asked to consider the fairness of that 
decision but I think its clear that the relationship between the parties had broken  down.
Overall I dont think first direct has acted  unfairly or made a mistake  and so I cant  fairly order  
it to pay the compensation Mr P would like or to do anything further in the circumstances of 
this complaint. I appreciate Mr P will remain unhappy with my decision but Im satisfied that 
brings to an end what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally  can do.
Ref: DRN45480493my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4548049