K821x#15complaint
Mr T says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about thirteen payday loans and a running account  (flex-credit) facility 
Quick Quid provided to Mr T from December 2009 onwards. Mr Ts last loan (the flex-credit  
facility) was provided  in July 2013. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ts complaint and thought the loans from loan five 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. 
Quick Quid disagreed with our adjudicators  view.  As the parties havent been able to agree 
on a resolution the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr T could repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid was required to establish 
whether Mr T could repay  his loans in a sustainable manner. And I think that this is wider 
than simply assessing  whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and 
Ref: DRN48309862pence calculation.  Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically 
follow this is the case. 
This is because the relevant rules and guidance  defines in a sustainable manner as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular without incurring or increasing  problem  
indebtedness, over the life of the credit agreement and out of income and/or  available  
savings. So it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that 
a borrower is unlikely to be able be able to make their repayments in a sustainable manner if 
they have a history  of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr T, I think that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Mr T was unlikely to have been able to make 
his loan repayments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan four. I say this 
because:
by this stage, Mr T was into his eighth  month  of owing  Quick Quid  money. In my 
view, Mr Ts loan history up until this point was in itself a clear demonstration of his 
inability to settle his loans  over the life of the credit agreement   hed had at least one 
deferral. And eight months after initially  approached  Quick Quid  he was looking to 
borrow a similar amount. By this stage  hed already paid Quick Quid  more than what 
he was lent in interest fees and charges.   
Mr T continued  to be provided  with new loans shortly after having repaid previous 
ones. So Quick  Quid ought to have realised  it was more likely  than not Mr T was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole the repayment of his previous loans left in 
his finances and that Mr Ts indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
Mr T was provided with loans for a period of more than three  and a half years. So   
Mr T wasnt making any real inroads into what he owed Quick Quid  and his 
indebtedness was being prolonged for an extended  period of time. The period of time 
Mr T was lent to cant in any reasonable circumstances be described  as short-term. 
Mr T being lent to in this way, in these circumstances, meant that he paid large  
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Quick  Quid over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr T lost out because Quick Quid continued to provide borrowing from loan five 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time Mr T owed Quick Quid money was likely  to have had 
negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans three to thirteen  and Quick  Quid  should put 
things right.
Ref: DRN48309863putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr T paid on the loans from loan five onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mr T owed  Quick Quid money  means that any information still 
recorded about loans five to thirteen and the flex-credit  facility  is adverse. So all 
entries about these  loans  (where they remain) should be removed from Mr Ts credit  
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ts complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr T compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4830986