K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy  about  the advice they were given by Admiral  Insurance Company 
Limited about whether or not to make  a claim on their motor insurance policy following an 
accident. 
background
Mr and Mrs D had a multicar policy with Admiral. After an accident their car was repaired 
after they made a claim against the third partys insurer  and not on their own Admiral  multi 
car policy. They were unhappy  with the quality of the repairs.  But in 2016 they werent able 
to pursue a complaint to this service against the third partys  insurers  as it wasnt in our 
jurisdiction as they didnt have  the required relationship with the third partys insurer.  
Mr and Mrs D now complain that Admiral shouldve told them  that if they made  a claim on 
the third partys policy they wouldnt be able to bring a complaint about the quality of the 
repairs to this service. They say if theyd known this they wouldve made a claim  on their 
Admiral multi car policy not against  the third partys  policy.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
Admiral assessed Mr and Mrs Ds original  complaint in 2016 and included  referral 
rights to this service. But its up to us to decide whether we can or cant  look at a 
complaint.
There arent any regulations in place about what Admiral shouldve told them  when 
they made a claim on the third partys  insurance policy.  Admiral  cant  have 
anticipated that theyd subsequently  want to make a complaint. And its not 
reasonable for Admiral to explain every  eventuality to a customer. 
It was Mr and Mrs Ds choice to decide which policy they claimed on and Admiral 
wasnt under any obligation to advise  them of this.
Admiral hasnt done anything wrong  and she cant reasonably  ask it to do any more.
Mr and Mrs D remained unhappy and have asked for an ombudsman  review. They said they 
werent given a choice of whose policy they were  claiming on. As far as they were aware it 
was on theirs. They only found out it was on the third partys  policy  when they complained to 
us in 2016.
The adjudicator responded that Mr and Mrs D had said in their previous complaint that they 
were aware the claim was made  against the third partys policy. So she cant  agree they only 
found this out when  they brought their complaint to us in 2016.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN44556722I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
Mr and Mrs D say they werent aware  the claim was being made against the third partys 
policy but as the adjudicator has said that isnt supported by what  they told us in their 
previous complaint.
Mr and Mrs D are now unhappy that Admiral didnt  tell them that if their claim was pursued 
against the third partys  policy, rather than against their own multicar policy,  they wouldnt be 
able to refer a complaint about  the way the repairs were carried out to this service.
But the simple  fact is Admiral wasnt under any obligation to advise  them of this fact. And I 
dont think it can fairly  be expected to outline every  possible eventuality  to them at the time 
or that it couldve reasonably foreseen that they wouldnt  be happy with the repairs  that were 
carried out on their car.
I recognise Mr and Mrs Ds frustration.  But taking  everything into account  I dont think 
Admiral has done  anything wrong. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask it to do 
anything more. 
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2019. 
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4455672