K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained to us about  a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy which  
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) sold to him with a credit card in 1998. 
background
Our adjudicator assessed this complaint and took the view that it shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint  and Ill explain the reasons 
for this.
First of all, given his circumstances I think that Mr M was eligible for the PPI. This means 
that hed have been able to claim on the policy  if he needed to.
Next, I looked at whether NatWest made it clear enough to Mr M that he had a choice  about  
the PPI. Mr M told us that he doesnt remember being informed of any insurance.  But 
NatWest has a copy of the application  form Mr M completed to get his credit card. Theres a 
section relating to the PPI headed:
CREDIT CARD  REPAYMENT  PROTECTOR
Below this were two further sections for Mr M to choose to indicate yes or no; whether he 
wanted to take out the PPI or turn it down. Mr M signed  in the yes section. 
Looking at all the available information,  I think having read the form its most likely that Mr M 
would have understood that the policy  was optional and that it was open to him to decline 
the PPI if he wished to do so. For this reason Im not upholding his complaint on this basis.
Next, NatWest didnt recommend the PPI cover  to Mr M. So it wasnt  required to make  sure 
the policy was suitable for him. However NatWest was required to give him clear enough 
information  in particular about the costs, benefits  and main  exclusions/restrictions in the 
policy  so that he could decide  for himself  whether  the PPI was right for him. 
Ive considered the possibility that the information  NatWest gave Mr M about the exclusions 
relating to pre-existing medical conditions wasnt as clear as it should have been.  Mr M has 
told us about some pre-existing medical conditions he suffered from. He described these as 
very mild. Based on his testimony, the impact  of these conditions  on Mr M was minimal. 
Overall Ive concluded that Mr M wouldnt have considered his pre-existing medical  
conditions to be the most likely reason hed need  to claim on the PPI. And hed still have 
been able to claim on the policy for other illnesses. So on balance  I dont  think  its likely that 
better information about the policy restrictions would have put him off taking out the PPI.
Ref: DRN41832652In addition, Mr M told us that if he was too ill to work or was made  redundant, hed have 
been entitled to pay from his employer  for between three and six months. But the cost and 
benefit of the policy  were  comparable to the cost of other, similar policies available at the 
time. The policy would have paid out for up to 12 months, longer than the sick pay or 
redundancy pay to which  Mr M was entitled.  So I dont think its likely  that clearer  information 
about these would have changed  his mind about  the policy.  Overall, having  taken  everything  
into consideration, I dont  think NatWest  mis-sold  Mr M this policy and so I dont require 
NatWest to put anything  right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4183265