K820x#14complaint
Ms B, on behalf of the estate of Ms M, complains that Sesame Limited failed to advise Ms M 
about protecting part of the equity  in her property when it advised her to take out an equity 
release mortgage  (ERM). She also complained  that Ms M wasnt informed that she could 
have made  additional payments on the interest  to reduce the final amount payable.
background
In 2005 Ms M saw an adviser for Lifetime  Independent Management Ltd, an appointed  
representative of Sesame. She was advised  to take out an ERM of £114,000 from Northern 
Rock. This was the most  she could borrow  based on a house value of £285,000  and the 
maximum equity  release percentage of 40% Northern Rock allowed. Ms B complains about 
the advice as the representative of the estate of Ms M. 
In response to the complaint Sesame  said that the ERM was appropriate for Ms M as it met 
with her recorded needs. It acknowledged  that she wasnt  recommended the Protected 
Equity Lifetime Mortgage through which she couldve protected part of her equity. But it said 
that as she was provided with the Northern  Rock Key Feature Document which detailed that 
mortgage it thought this was discussed with her. It also said that Mrs M wanted the 
maximum amount of equity release and could  not obtain that using the protected mortgage.
Sesame said it wasnt in Ms Ms interest  to use income from investing some  of the capital 
released by the ERM to reduce the interest on the mortgage.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
short, he thought  the advice to take out equity release was suitable  given Ms Ms 
circumstances at the time. He wasnt satisfied that the insurance  option that was available  
would have been suitable. He said the way this worked meant it would have reduced the 
amount she couldve  borrowed. 
Ms B said she wasnt satisfied with the findings of the investigator and asked for a review  by 
an ombudsman, although she didnt provide any further information  or argument in support 
of the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ERMs are designed  for elderly customers aged at least  55. When they were first introduced  
over 30 years ago lenders  recognised  the potential for family members  to complain, many 
years after the sale,  that the ERM was mis-sold. As a result,  the industry trade  association  
for equity  release mortgages  known  as Safe Home Income Plans  (SHIP) originally, but as 
the Equity Release Council since 2012  required businesses offering ERMs complied with 
strict and robust selling  standards.  The Northern  Rock  ERM was subject to SHIP  standards 
that included a requirement that Ms M take independent legal  advice before taking out the 
ERM.
It is not uncommon for family members  to raise concerns  about  equity release products they 
become aware  on the death  of a parent or other relative. It often comes as an unwelcome 
surprise to realise that a substantial part of the equity in the house is payable to a mortgage 
Ref: DRN42165952company. As I have  said,  it was in anticipation of this that strict  selling standards were 
introduced by the trade association.
It is important  to make clear that equity release is an appropriate way for people  to raise  
capital they need that cant be raised  in other  ways. It is the nature of such products  that 
interest is payable on a compound basis and this can lead to substantial  sums becoming 
due over time. This doesnt mean that there is something wrong with the recommendation.
One of the issues  with complaints raised  by family members for deceased  relatives is that 
they are not the customer (or werent at the relevant time) and they have  no direct 
knowledge of what the adviser may or may not have said or done. Ms M didnt make any 
complaint about  the ERM during her lifetime, so I dont have the benefit of any information 
from her to indicate that she was unhappy  about  the advice she was given. In the 
circumstances I need to rely on the available documents to decide if the adviser did anything  
wrong.
The adviser was subject to the rules and guidance  set out in the Mortgage and Home 
Finance: Conduct  of Business sourcebook (MCOB) which can be seen  in the Handbook  of 
the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority. In short,  the rules at the time required 
the adviser to take reasonable care to ensure  the suitability of his advice in relation to a 
lifetime mortgage based on the information  provided  by the customer  and, as I have 
referred to above,  the SHIP rules also applied.
The fact find completed  by the adviser  records that Ms M was 80 years  of age, had a low 
income of only £483 from a pension with outgoings just short of £400, savings of around 
£1,000 and a house worth £285,000. It shows that Ms M wanted  equity release of £114,000 
with £26,000 to be used for home  improvements, £10,000 to be kept as an emergency fund 
and the balance of £78,000 for IHT planning and to provide an income.
The suitability letter dated 12 October  2005  recommended an ERM for £114,000 with 
Northern Rock on the basis this met her needs as recorded in the fact find. The adviser  
stated that Ms M wasnt eligible for any state benefits currently,  so based  on what he had 
been told the ERM didnt affect any entitlement. He did note that she was entitled  to council 
tax benefit that would be lost because of the equity release but stated that she would be 
better off financially, which was more likely than not the case based  on her likely  income  
from the investment.  The adviser also stated that he had checked with the benefits agency 
and social  services and been told that the work Ms M wanted to do on the house wouldnt be 
paid for.
Having considered the information in the fact find and suitability letter I am satisfied that the 
overall advice to take out the ERM was suitable - it allowed her to do the things it is recorded 
that she wanted to do, namely  make  some home improvements, increase her income and 
have some money set aside for unforeseen eventualities.
I have considered whether Ms M shouldve been advised to invest in the Protected Equity 
Lifetime Mortgage. This would have allowed for protection  of a proportion  of the equity in the 
property if a customer wanted to guarantee a certain  percentage would be left as an 
inheritance  as explained  in the key features document from Northern Rock.
There isnt anything to show that Ms M wanted to leave a guaranteed  proportion of her 
equity as an inheritance. There is also nothing to show that this wouldve been a suitable  
recommendation given her recorded  needs and objectives. If she had protected  some of her 
Ref: DRN42165953equity this couldnt be taken into account  in calculating how much she could get as a lump  
sum from her equity. 
Sesame pointed out that if she had protected half her equity, as Ms B suggested  she should 
have done, the lump  sum she could have  got by way of equity  release  would  only have been 
calculated based  on the value of the other half  meaning she would only have been able to 
get a lump sum of £57,000. Given she intended  spending £26,000 on home  improvements 
and keeping £10,000 as an emergency fund this would have only left her with £21,000 to 
invest for the additional income she wanted.  Im not persuaded this would have been  enough  
to provide her with the additional  income  she wanted.
Ms B has also argued that Ms M should have been advised to pay some of the income  she 
received back into the ERM to reduce  the amount payable.  I wouldnt  have  expected the 
adviser, or any adviser,  to recommend that a customer use some of the income generated 
by investment of money from an ERM to pay off interest. 
Such advice  would be unsuitable, as if that is what the income is going to be used for you 
dont need the equity  release in the first place.  There is no purpose to take equity release to 
invest to provide an income that is simply going to be used to pay the interest  on the 
mortgage, as Ms M would get no benefit  from that. In other  words,  if Ms M didnt want  all the 
income to have a better standard of living then she should have been advised to take less by 
way of equity  release.
I acknowledge that the ERM allowed that payments  could be made  into the mortgage, as 
referred to in key facts  document.  However,  such payments are treated as capital 
repayments, and under the terms of the mortgage  there would be early  repayment charges 
applied to any such payments. Im not satisfied that there was any requirement for the 
adviser to state  in the suitability letter that Ms M she could make payments  into the 
mortgage. Even if he had there is no evidence to show this is what  she wouldve done.  
Im not satisfied that Ms M didnt  want the full amount  she took by way of the ERM. I dont 
have any information  about the investment she made, as any advice about this was after the 
adviser moved to a new firm. However, typically income would be 5% of the amount 
invested. Based on Ms M investing  the balance of monies not used for house improvements 
and an emergency  fund, she would have had around £78,000 for investment. This could 
have provided  an income  of around £3,900 each year - £325 each month.  This together  with 
her existing income would  have  given her an overall monthly income of £808. This isnt 
excessive given her outgoings, which would have  increased to some extent as a result of the 
loss of her council tax benefit.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing to Ms B. But the evidence  is persuasive 
that the recommendation made by the adviser to take out the ERM was suitable, given Ms 
Ms circumstances, wishes and needs  at the time.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B on behalf of 
the estate of Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 22 January 2021.
Philip Gibbons
Ref: DRN42165954ombudsman
Ref: DRN4216595