K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him. He wants  a refund with interest.
background
This complaint is about six payday loans  Uncle Buck  provided to Mr S between  December  
2013 and September 2014. Mr Ss lending history is as follows:
Loan 1 taken 13 December 2013 for £100  (£134.95 with interest)
Loan 2 taken 8 May 2014 for £100 (£135.91 with interest)
Loan 3 taken 7 June  2014 for £125  (£168.69 with interest)
Loan 4 taken 29 June 2014 for £250  (£337.38 with interest) and rolled over once
Loan 5 taken 30 August 2014  for £250 (£337.38 with interest)
Loan 6 taken 28 September 2014  £250 (£337.38 with interest)  and rolled over once.
As far as I can see, Mr S repaid all his loans. I cant  see that there were any significant 
breaks in the borrowing so Ill consider  the loans as one chain. 
Uncle Buck  told Mr S that it shouldnt have provided  loans  five and six, and it offered redress  
for these. But Mr S was unhappy with this. Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ss complaint 
and thought the loans  from loan four onwards shouldnt have been given. Uncle Buck  
disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ref: DRN41815982There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
I think Uncle Buck didnt lend unfairly for Mr Ss first three loans.  The loans were small 
compared to Mr Ss stated income of about  £2,500  a month.  Uncle Buck  asked Mr S for 
information about his income  and expenditure, which he said was about  £1,250  a month.  
And it carried out credit checks which it said found nothing  untoward. 
Given the loan amounts,  what  was apparent about Mr Ss circumstances at the time and his 
history with Uncle Buck, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate  to ask him for the 
amount of information  needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt  anything  
in the information Mr S provided or the information  Uncle Buck shouldve been aware of, 
which meant it wouldve  been proportionate  to start verifying what  Mr S was saying. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending  history with Mr S, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle  Buck should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
four. I say this because:
From  loan two onwards Mr S was provided  with a new loan within  days of settling a 
previous one. So by loan four Uncle Buck ought  to have realised it was more  likely 
than not Mr S was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous 
loan was leaving in his finances  and that Mr Ss indebtedness was increasing  
unsustainably.
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Uncle  Buck. Loan six 
was taken out nine months  after Mr Ss first. And it was for a larger amount. So Mr S 
had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Uncle Buck  over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr S lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing from loan four 
onwards because:
Ref: DRN41815983these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Ss ability  to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market for these  
high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans four to six and Uncle Buck  should put things 
right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans four to six;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan four onwards means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans four to six should  be removed from 
Mr Ss credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ss complaint. Uncle Buck  Finance 
LLP should pay Mr S compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4181598