K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains about the way Barclays Bank  UK PLC handled her chargeback claim.
background
Miss D purchased a wig in November  2018  for £459. Although she was initially  happy with 
the wig, after approximately one week she found  faults with it. She was unable  to resolve the 
issue with the seller so she raised  a chargeback claim  with Barclays  on 15 November 2018.
Miss D says she was given conflicting information  by Barclays  about  whether she should  
send the wig back to the seller.  Shes  also unhappy  that Barclays failed to keep her advised  
of the progress of her claim  and that it lost the evidence she sent in.
In its final response,  Barclays acknowledged that Miss D had contacted  them several  times  
between November 2018 and January 2019 to ask about the progress  of her claim. It says it 
cant say why the evidence sent in by Miss D wasnt received, but says it received it the 
second time she sent it on 14 January  2019. By this time, the 30 day time limit had expired  
so the claim was closed.
Barclays offered Miss D £25 for the inconvenience  caused and £25 call costs. Miss D wasnt  
happy with the banks  response and complained to this service. She wants  a full refund of the 
price of the wig.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said she was satisfied that Miss D posted her 
evidence to Barclays in time, and felt it more likely that the evidence  had been  lost by 
Barclays. The investigator thought the chargeback  wouldve been  successful  and 
recommended that Barclays reimburse  Miss D the price of the wig.
Barclays didnt agree. It said Miss D had raised  a chargeback  because  she wasnt  happy 
with the quality of the wig. It said that evidence provided by the merchant indicated  that 
Miss D was happy with the quality of the wig when she received it, and that because this 
was an item which  required care to keep  it in good condition, it was likely that the quality 
issues had arisen  whilst the wig was in Miss Ds possession.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D says she posted her evidence  to Barclays on 11 December 2018, which  was within  
the 30 day timescale. Barclays says it didnt  receive it.
Ive looked at the evidence which Miss D sent in. Its very well prepared. I can also see that 
Miss D confirmed to Barclays via online chat that she was sending  her evidence  on 11 
December 2018.  Ive got no reason to believe  that Miss D didnt send her evidence on 11 
December 2018.  Its possible that it went missing in the post but I think this is unlikely. I think  
its more likely that the evidence reached  Barclays mail centre and then got lost.
Barclays has said it closed the claim because the evidence wasnt  received within the 30 day 
time limit. This means the claim hasnt actually been  considered  on its merits. So Ive 
Ref: DRN48052742considered whats  more likely to have been the outcome if Miss Ds evidence had been 
taken into account  along with that of the merchant.
Barclays says that the merchants  evidence led it to conclude that the chargeback claim 
wouldve been successfully defended.  It says the evidence suggests that the wig was in 
Miss Ds possession for some time before any faults  were  reported, and that Miss D had 
been happy with the wig on delivery.
Ive thought about these  points. In relation to Miss D being happy with the wig on delivery, I 
dont think this is conclusive evidence  that the wig was of satisfactory  quality. Its very often 
the case that faults with products dont become apparent until the product has been used. 
Im not persuaded that an initial expression  of contentment on delivery amounts to evidence  
that any faults with the items  developed afterwards.
In relation to the wig being in Miss Ds possession for some time before the fault was 
reported, its pertinent that Miss D reported  the fault to the seller first. This happened  within  a 
week of delivery. So its not correct to say that Miss D was in possession  of the wig for 
almost a month before she reported any faults.  Even if a wig is an item which requires care 
to keep it in good condition (and Ive seen no evidence to support that assertion), I wouldnt 
expect a wig to become  faulty after only a week.
I appreciate that the merchants terms and conditions say that custom  made items cant  be 
returned. However, if an item is faulty,  or is of unsatisfactory  quality, the merchants terms 
and conditions cant override statutory rights and remedies.
Taking into account all of the available evidence, I think Miss Ds chargeback  claim wouldve  
been successful.  Its no longer  possible  for Miss D to pursue the chargeback claim. But 
because Im satisfied that Miss D provided her evidence  within  the time limit, I think  the bank 
should put Miss D in the position she would have been in had the claim been allowed. 
Therefore, Barclays should reimburse  the purchase  price of the wig.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Barclays Bank UK PLC must reimburse 
Miss D the sum of £459.00. This is in addition to the compensation already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4805274