K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Hartwell Finance Limited  (Hartwell)  mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) when  she bought  a car in 2006.  
background
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
That provisional decision is attached and it forms part of my final decision. I asked the 
parties for their comments and to send me any additional evidence  they wanted me to 
consider before I issued a final decision.  Both  parties have  confirmed they have nothing 
further to add. 
Miss Rs complaint has been  with this Service for a very long time. I reiterate my gratitude to 
the parties for their patience. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.
As neither party has provided me with any further  information, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings. Im sorry to disappoint  Miss R, but for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision, I havent upheld  her complaint. I dont  require Hartwell  to take any 
action to put things right.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Hartwell Finance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41852502COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss R complains  that Hartwell Finance Limited  (Hartwell)  mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) when she bought a car in 2006. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint  should be upheld. Through her representatives, Miss R 
disagreed with that view.  So the matter  has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
I want  to acknowledge  at the outset that Miss Rs complaint has been with this Service for an 
extremely long time. The delay was partly because we were  working through the impact a recent 
Supreme Court judgment had on cases like this. I am grateful to the parties  for their patience while 
that work was done. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case . 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss R, but I dont think this complaint should  be upheld.  As things  stand, I 
dont intend to tell Hartwell to take any further action in respect  of this complaint. Ill set out the 
reasons for my decision below.
It appears to me that PPI was sold to Miss R during a meeting between  the parties. I cant know what  
was said during  that meeting. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked  at 
what the parties told me about it. And Ive also looked at the paperwork thats available from the time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Miss R would have known  she didnt have to take this policy 
out if she didnt want it. I cant see that Miss R has alleged that Hartwell didnt make it clear that the 
policy was optional. From the documents Ive been given, it seems that a separate  application had to 
be made for the PPI policy.  And I can see that separate correspondence would have been sent to 
Miss R about  the cover. With that in mind, I think  she would  have also known that it was as separate 
product and not a condition of the loan. 
On the face of it, I think Hartwell probably advised Miss R to take this PPI policy out. So that means  it 
had to make  sure the policy was suitable for her. To help me decide  whether  the policy  was suitable, 
Ive looked at what  Miss R told us about her personal circumstances  at the time. And Ive also 
considered the terms and conditions  of the PPI. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim  on the PPI, Miss Rs loan repayments would have been 
covered for up to 12 months if shed been off work  because of sickness or if she lost her job. Miss R 
told us that she would have  had full sick pay if shed been out of work. She didnt tell us exactly  what  
that meant, but I think its unlikely that she would have been  paid full pay for 12 months.  So I think  its 
likely that the PPI would have covered her for longer than her sick pay would have lasted. 
If I am wrong in my assumption about Miss Rs sick pay, I invite her to provide any further information 
or evidence  she has about her sick pay arrangements at that time. 
Miss R told us that shed have been able to rely on help from relatives if she couldnt work. And I dont 
doubt that it would have been the intention of those family members to help out if Miss R ran into 
financial trouble. But circumstances can change and theres no guarantee that help would have  been 
available to Miss R as and when she needed  it.  It doesnt  appear that Miss R had any other means  to 
meet her repayments if she was out of work. 
Ref: DRN41852503Miss R appears to have  been in good health when  she took this PPI policy out. So I dont think shed  
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions  about medical conditions. I havent seen 
anything unusual about her circumstances that would have stopped her from making a successful 
claim if she needed  to. 
Miss R said she didnt  think the cover was suitable for her because her loan was for five years, but the 
cover only lasted for the first three years. After looking at the terms and conditions of the policy, I think  
the cover would have been running for the same time as the loan. I havent seen anything  to suggest  
that Miss R was likely to pay her loan back early, so I dont think  it would have made  a difference  to 
Miss Rs decision to take PPI out if it was difficult to cancel it. 
With all of this in mind,  I think  the PPI probably was suitable for Miss R. 
Hartwell also had to give Miss R enough information about the cover so she could decide for herself 
whether it was a good fit for her needs.  That information had to be clear, fair and not misleading. Its 
possible that Hartwell didnt tell Miss R everything it should  have done about the cover.  But Ive set 
out above  how I think  the PPI could have been helpful  if Miss R lost her job. And I think  she probably 
chose to buy the policy  at the time. I dont think Miss R would have acted differently if shed been 
given more  or better information about the cover. 
The offer the business made to Miss R
I can see that it appears Hartwell made an offer to Miss R to refund one PPI premium to her. Thats 
because Miss R initially said she repaid the loan early  and so she paid too much for her PPI policy. 
But Miss Rs representatives  accepted  that the loan had, in fact, run to term. So with that in mind, I 
dont think it would be fair for Hartwell to refund the final premium if it is now accepted that Miss R 
didnt pay too much. 
 
my provisional  decision
As things stand, I dont intend  to uphold this complaint  against Hartwell  Finance Limited.  So I 
provisionally wont  require it to take any further  action.  
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 9 
June 2019 after which I will issue a final decision. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4185250