K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B bought a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP) in 2001 to protect  their 
mortgage repayments. The sale took place  in one of the banks  branches. The TMPP 
included PPI. The PPI was in Mr Bs sole name and gave him accident,  sickness and 
unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the what  we know about 
how Halifax sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say without their paperwork from the sale how is it possible to be sure Halifax  
presented the PPI as optional. They say they were led to believe it was a condition  of their 
mortgage. It isnt surprising or unreasonable Halifax hasnt  got all the paperwork from the 
sale as it was so long ago. But it has provided  the section of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage 
application form that shows Mr B signed to indicate he wanted  to take out a TMPP. Theres 
nothing in that section that I think could reasonably have led Mr and Mrs B to think they had 
to take out PPI. 
Based on what we know about  the banks sales process at the time, I think  its most likely 
Mr B then completed a TMPP  application form selecting which elements of the cover he 
wanted, after discussion with the bank. Mr B only selected PPI, and not the life or critical 
illness cover.  This suggests to me he understood he had choices. Halifax  has provided 
samples of the documents  it used when selling TMPP at this time. And I cant find enough  
evidence to conclude  that it didnt follow its standard sales process here. Overall, I think  its 
most likely Halifax  made it clear Mr and Mrs B had a choice about  PPI - and they opted  to 
take it out for Mr B.
Ref: DRN43412742Halifax recommended  the PPI for Mr B to Mr and Mrs B so it had to make  sure it was 
suitable. And overall I think the PPI seems  to have been right for Mr B based  on what  Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time.  Mr B said he was entitled to six months  full pay and 
six months half pay if he was sick, but the PPI wouldve  paid out for each successful 
accident and sickness and claim for up to 24 months. It also gave up to 24 months  
redundancy cover. Mr B said he had savings worth less than three  months salary. The PPI 
would have allowed  him to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to 
keep them intact for his future needs.  
He also said he had a serious illness policy but this is a different  kind of insurance  and 
wouldnt help with monthly mortgage  repayments,  or pay out in the same circumstances as 
PPI. Given the consequences for Mr and Mrs B of defaulting  on debt secured against their 
home, I think  the PPI would have been  useful  for them if Mr B was sick or lost his job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs B all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was first made clear but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. I also dont know that Halifax pointed out the 
main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr B doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of 
those things. It follows I dont think better  information wouldve changed  their decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs B paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs B back  some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr and Mrs B.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4341274