K820x#14complaint
Mr Ds complaint concerns how he was treated  when he tried to make  a transfer in a branch 
of Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide).
background
Mr D had recently been added as a signatory to a Treasurers Trust Account, and he went 
into a Nationwide  branch to make  a deposit  and arrange a transfer of £600  from that account  
to his personal account with another bank. 
When he was told the CHAPs transfer would  cost £20, he agreed  to take a cheque  instead. 
In attempting  to complete  this procedure, branch staff applied  their security  process  for 
withdrawals of over £500, which meant that Mr D was asked some security questions. When 
he got the account address incorrect, he was asked for ID instead. 
Mr D obtained further information, and queued again  to produce his ID. 
Exactly what  happened  next is in dispute,  but ultimately Mr D took back his ID and left the 
branch on bad terms. He says he then complained by phone.  
When Mr D complained in writing to Nationwide, it didnt uphold  it. It said its staff had simply 
followed its authentication process  for security purposes,  and hadnt made a mistake.  
Mr D didnt agree, and complained to our service.  He said hed been humiliated in branch, 
and treated like a criminal  in front of other customers. He wanted compensation. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint, and obtained statements from Nationwide branch 
staff, as well as taking  Mr Ns version  of events.  She concluded that she didnt have 
sufficient evidence to uphold the complaint.
She noted that the events  of the branch visit remained  in dispute. Mr N maintained  
Nationwide treated him unfairly and embarrassed  him, and Nationwide said it was simply 
following its proper published security processes and that Mr N had become very annoyed.  
On the basis that she could  never know for sure what happened,  on balance she didnt think  
Nationwide had treated Mr N badly. And she agreed  that it was entitled  to follow its security 
processes to ensure the safety of its customers money. 
Mr N didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said that hed since  visited 
another Nationwide branch, and again had had problems with the account. He said he was 
told that this was because he hadnt been  added as a signatory, and that this confirmed that 
the branch he was complaining about  had been  wrong.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator,  and I cant uphold this complaint,
Ref: DRN41708662I know this will be disappointing for Mr N, and I dont doubt he feels deeply  and genuinely 
that he was treated poorly. But Im afraid  there isnt the evidence  there  for me to safely 
conclude that this is correct.
My role is to look at everything  and decide what I think is fair to both parties.  In cases  where 
much of the evidence is oral/anecdotal, it can be difficult  coming  to a position. Thats where 
we have to use our discretion to make  findings  of balance of probabilities.  Thats to say, 
what we think most  likely happened,  based  on what we know. And this is what  Ive done.
Firstly, on the matter  of the process Nationwide followed  before drawing  the £600 cheque, I 
cant say this was wrong. It was an established process, for genuine security reasons. Mr N 
was a very new signatory to the account, and the withdrawal was large.  In the circumstances  
I think Nationwide did the proportionate and correct thing to ensure the security of its 
customers money. Particularly after a security  question  was failed. While it may have been 
somewhat irritating and embarrassing  for Mr N, I think thats better  than the account being  
compromised. And I dont  think the additional  checks would have taken too much longer, so I 
cant say it was hugely inconvenient.
When we decide  a complaint, a compensatory award is only made  after weve  made a 
finding of a mistake, fault or poor treatment of a customer  by a business. If we dont have  
any of these findings, we cant make  an award  of damages. In these circumstances  a 
business might be willing  to make a goodwill  offer, but thats all it would be.
Not only do I not think  Nationwide make a mistake  here, I also cant agree that Mr N was 
treated badly. As I said before,  I dont doubt he genuinely felt humiliated,  and perhaps that 
the Nationwide staff were  less than helpful  to him. But its not enough that this is his own 
personal perspective. I need more evidence  than that, and need to believe that his version of 
events is most likely to be accurate when set against Nationwide's.
Ive seen the staff statements from Nationwide. Each staff member comes  across as 
professional, and aware of the necessary protocols in branch. I cant  say Ive seen evidence 
of any malice, or deliberate intent to cause Mr N any distress  or inconvenience. 
Its unfortunate that the inter-action  between Mr N and the branch deteriorated as it did. I 
appreciate he said he left because hed been told to go to another branch, and was very 
embarrassed in front of a queue of onlookers. But the branch says it would never have 
suggested this, and that what  it actually  said was that it needed to authenticate the fact Mr N 
had recently been  added as a signatory with the branch concerned. This version of events 
sounds plausible and reasonable to me.
Overall, Im afraid Im not persuaded that Nationwide  made  any mistakes,  or treated  Mr N 
unfairly. As such, it wouldnt be fair for me to award him compensation.
Having said that, I am sorry  to hear about  his experience, and do hope Ive been able to 
explain why this is the only fair conclusion I can reach on the evidence  before me.
Ref: DRN41708663my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4170866