K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc T/A M&S Bank wont refund a 
payment made on her credit card to a secondary ticket  selling website (the Website) for 
concert tickets.
background
In July 2018, Mrs C says she bought four tickets for a concert  which was due to take place in 
December 2018  on her M&S credit card. Mrs C says each ticket cost around £250 each, and 
that the total cost charged to her card was £1,135.13. Mrs C says she thought  she was 
purchasing the tickets  from another ticket selling website but later realised she had been 
directed to the Website. 
Mrs C says a week  before the concert,  alternative  tickets had been arranged  for her as the 
ones she originally bought were no longer available. The alternative tickets were  in the upper 
tier of the venue whereas  the original  ones were much lower down in the venue. Mrs C says 
getting to the alternative ticket seating impacted  her health as shed had an operation  shortly 
before which  made her mobility difficult.  Mrs C also complains that she had to pick up the 
tickets from a different  location rather than them being delivered  to her house.
Mrs C also says when she received the tickets, she realised the face value of the tickets 
were around  £65 each  and not the £250 shed paid for each ticket. So, Mrs C has asked for 
a refund of the difference between the face value price and the price she paid per ticket as 
she feels shes been a victim of fraud.
M&S looked into the matter, but they didnt think they could help.  This was because they 
didnt think they could do a chargeback because they didnt have  a reasonable prospect of 
success. They also thought a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974 
(CCA) should also be unsuccessful. They said there wasnt  the necessary relationship  
between Mrs C, M&S and the Website for a valid claim. M&S credited Mrs Cs account  with 
1,000 loyalty points  (equivalent to £10) as a gesture of goodwill for the disappointment  
caused and the Website offered Mrs C a £200  voucher as compensation for the alternative 
tickets that she was given.
Mrs C didnt think this was fair, so she brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator  
looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think M&S  had acted unfairly by declining Mrs Cs 
request for a refund.  Mrs C didnt  agree.  She reiterated that she wasnt medically fit for the 
seats in the upper tier and that she struggled  to get there. Mrs C also remains  unhappy she 
didnt pay face value for the tickets. So, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about M&S, as Mrs Cs credit card account provider. Its not about the
Website, which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Im only
considering whether Mrs C authorised M&S to debit the account with the value of the
payment, and whether it should  have  helped with the dispute with the Website  in any other
way.
Ref: DRN42321112Mrs C says she made the transaction for these tickets, knew  the amount she was paying
and was willing to purchase the tickets at that price. It was only afterwards that Mrs C found 
out the face value of the tickets (around £65 each)  and is unhappy that she didnt pay this 
amount for them. She doesnt argue she didnt  buy the tickets  on her credit card.  I also 
understand Mrs C says she was attempting to buy the tickets through another ticket  selling  
website, but was directed to the Website. I cant be sure exactly  how Mrs C got directed to 
the Website. However, having considered the Website, I think  its clear that it is a secondary  
ticket selling website.  Im not persuaded the Website looks  like the ticket  selling website Mrs 
C thought she was on. And I think its clear the tickets are being purchased through  the 
Website from a seller  (who isnt representing  the Website). 
So, having  considered what Mrs C has said (including that she made this purchase and paid 
for the tickets) and the evidence of M&S, Im satisfied the transaction  was properly 
authorised and correctly  applied  to Mrs Cs credit  card account with M&S.
could M&S  challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant,  as Mrs C does
here, M&S (as the card issuer)  can attempt  a chargeback. Generally, we say its fair for a
card issuer  to attempt a chargeback - or to challenge a payment  - if theres a reasonable
prospect of success,  for example where goods  or services arent received, or it appears that 
the payment wasnt properly authorised  by the cardholder.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features  to this one, where chargeback  has
been successful.  But I dont think M&S  couldve  challenged  the payment on the basis
Mrs C didnt properly authorise  the transaction, given the conclusion  Ive already set out.
M&S said they were  unable to raise a chargeback  as no terms and conditions were broken 
by the Website,  therefore, there  wouldnt be a reasonable  prospect of success.
Mrs C thinks she was overcharged for the tickets because  she later found  out they had a 
face value of around £65 each. I dont think theres a reason  code  M&S  could  have used 
under the chargeback scheme rules to get Mrs Cs money back  on the basis that she was 
being charged more than a tickets face value. So, I think it was reasonable for M&S not to 
challenge the transaction on that basis. Likewise, I dont  think theres a chargeback scheme  
rule for how a website  describes itself. So, I think it was reasonable for M&S not to challenge  
the transaction on that basis too.
Mrs C says she was given  alternative tickets when the original tickets she bought,  were  no 
longer available. The alternative  tickets  needed  to be picked up from a different location  
one closer to the venue on the day. I understand Mrs C accepted the alternative tickets and 
that they were  provided in time for the event and Mrs C was able to attend the concert.  So, I 
dont think M&S could have challenged the chargeback on the basis that Mrs C didnt get the 
tickets or that she was unable to gain entry using the tickets.
M&S are required to consider whether there  is a reasonable prospect of success when they 
are considering whether to go through the chargeback process  or not. Bearing  in mind Mrs C
authorised the transaction, accepted the alternative  tickets and got the tickets, M&S  
decision that there wasnt a reasonable prospect of success  in a chargeback is fair and 
reasonable in my opinion. So, I think they acted  fairly in not raising  a chargeback.
how about Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974?
Ref: DRN42321113As the payment was made using a credit  card, I have also taken  into account how
Section 75 applies  to the transaction. M&S  argue that Mrs C doesnt have a valid claim 
because of the arrangements involved in the transaction. But I dont fully agree,  and Ill 
explain why.
The transaction was made using Mrs Cs M&S  credit  card. Under  Section 75, in certain
circumstances, Mrs C has an equal right to claim against M&S as she does against the
supplier (the Website) if theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the
supplier.
My role isnt to decide M&S liability under Section 75. Instead, as statute requires me to, I 
need to decide whats fair and reasonable, taking into account any relevant law, such  as the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
For a valid claim  under  Section 75 there must  be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement  in
place. The Websites terms and conditions say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange.  [Websites  name] provides a service that allows  members who
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Websites
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the
Buyers and Sellers.
This satisfies me that the tickets arent  supplied by the Website. But that the Website  does
provide a service.  And for this it charges buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website  says
it:
charges  a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed  in the check-out
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform, guaranteeing
tickets and providing customer service.
So, in effect,  there  is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mrs C, M&S and the
Website, albeit  not for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website
provides a service.  The service consists of two main things - the platform  and the guarantee.
So, I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information (such  as venue, date, time,
seat location and the asking price) is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the guarantee,
the Website is responsible for providing  replacement  tickets or a refund if the seller  doesnt 
fulfil their obligations around  supplying the tickets.
Another condition  necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided
by the Website must have  a cash price of more  than £100 and up to £30,000.  I havent  seen  
a breakdown of the amount Mrs C paid.  She was charged £1,135.13 for the four tickets on 
her credit card.  Ive found - from looking at screenshots  of a number of purchases  through 
the Website - that the Websites fee makes  up about a third of the total cost.  One third of 
£1,135.13 is around £378.38. So, I think its more likely than not the Websites  fee for its 
service in this case was more than £100  and up to £30,000. This means I think  Mrs C could 
have a valid claim under Section 75.
So, Ive established  that the necessary  arrangements exist for a claim under Section 75 
about the service  the Website provided, and that the cash  price of that service is sufficient 
for Section 75 to apply. Next, I need  to consider whether theres been a breach  of contract or
misrepresentation on the part of the Website.
Ref: DRN42321114Mrs C says she realised the face value  of the tickets  she bought  were  only around £65 each 
and that as she paid around  £250 per ticket, Mrs C has asked to be reimbursed for the 
difference in cost for each  ticket. I appreciate Mrs Cs concerns; however, Im not persuaded  
there is a misrepresentation here.  I say this because Mrs C knew  the price she was paying 
for the tickets and went through the purchase process to get them.  She told us she received 
the tickets and Im not persuaded shes been  told anything untrue which materially 
persuaded her to buy the tickets she otherwise wouldnt have. Similarly, Mrs C bought the 
tickets and received  them  - albeit alternative ones  which had been arranged  - so Im not 
persuaded there has been a breach of contract either. In any case,  its the seller which sets 
the price of the tickets, not the Website.  This means  the difference between the face value of 
each ticket, and what Mrs C paid for each  ticket, went to the seller,  not the Website.
Mrs C says she was told shortly  before  the concert that the original tickets shed bought  
were no longer available.  So, the Website arranged for alternative tickets to be provided to 
Mrs C which  were in a different seating  location to the original seating location. Because  of 
this inconvenience,  the Website offered Mrs C a £200 voucher as compensation. Im sorry to 
hear of the difficult time Mrs C had in reaching  the alternative seats  due to her recent 
operation and I have  a good deal of sympathy for Mrs C. But Im unable  to say there has 
been a breach of contract here. The Website fulfilled their obligations under their guarantee 
which was to provide  alternative seats  which Mrs C accepted, as she went  along  to the 
concert.
Mrs C says the alternative tickets werent delivered  to her and instead, she had to travel to 
the venue to pick them up. I can see from the information M&S provided that the Website  
emailed Mrs C the night before the event date to let her know  where she needed to go to 
pick up the tickets and provided a timeframe which she could do this in. I understand Mrs Cs 
frustration that the tickets  were no longer going to be delivered to her house and instead, 
she was required to collect them from a different  location. Ultimately, Mrs C still accepted 
these tickets and was able to gain entry to the venue. Therefore, Im not persuaded Mrs C 
didnt get what  she agreed to. 
In summary,  I think M&S acted fairly  in the handling of Mrs Cs chargeback claim. I also think  
that there  is the appropriate relationship for a Section 75 claim and I think  it does meet  the 
financial limits. So, I dont  think it was right for M&S  to not consider Mrs Cs Section 75 claim 
for the reasons they gave. Although, had M&S  done  so, I dont think they wouldve acted 
unfairly by declining Mrs Cs claim.  So, I dont think M&S  need  to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Marks & Spencer 
Financial Services Plc T/A M&S Bank.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2020.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4232111