K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) returned the money that 
she paid into her direct Individual Savings Account (ISA), which meant  she missed out on 
using her allowance for that tax year.
background
In March 2018, Miss L paid £20,000 into her direct ISA with NS&I. As she hadnt paid into 
her ISA for the previous  tax year, NS&I needed  her to sign a declaration and so it wrote  to 
her about  this. It sent a further reminder  letter but didnt hear back from Miss L so the
£20,000 was returned to her the following month.  
This was after the start of the new tax year, so it meant Miss L had missed out on using her 
ISA allowance  for the previous year.
Miss L complained when  she realised the money  had been  returned. She said she hadnt 
received any letters  about completing  the declaration.
NS&I said it wasnt able to backdate  the deposit.  It said that, when opening the direct ISA, 
customers sign a declaration to subscribe to the ISA for that tax year and each subsequent 
tax year until further notice. But if the customer doesnt make a deposit one tax year, another  
declaration needs to be completed to meet HM Revenue & Customs  rules.
It explained that in accordance with the provisions of the ISA Regulations, if an account 
holder doesnt  subscribe to their account  for a whole tax year or longer, it will send  them a 
new declaration  form which they will need  to sign and return within  30 days  before any 
further subscriptions can be added. And that if it doesnt receive the signed declaration 
within 30 days, the subscription is returned.
our investigators opinion
One of our investigators  thought the complaint should be upheld. She said there  wasnt 
anything to show that NS&I gave Miss L any indication that she needed  to complete a form 
before her ISA payment  could be accepted.  She didnt think it was likely that Miss L wouldnt 
have signed and returned this form if she had known about it. The investigator also thought
Miss L hadnt been given the best advice to wait before making her subscription for the new 
tax year as shed then lost out on the interest from the ISA.
Our investigator thought NS&I should  calculate the interest that wouldve been applied  to 
Miss Ls ISA if the payment of £20,000  had been  accepted when it was originally  made, 
assuming that Miss L will pay £20,000 for each  of the next three years until she turns 65.
She said NS&I should calculate the additional  tax she will have to pay on this interest over 
the next three years and refund this to her. She also said it should  backdate  the payment of 
£20,000 to the date Miss L complained, and pay Miss L £150 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN46377012NS&I didnt accept  our investigators  findings. It said its advisers wouldnt have been aware 
that Miss L hadnt  subscribed to her ISA in the previous tax year from the information they 
had access to. But they did refer her to the terms and conditions  of the direct ISA which sets 
out the need for a declaration form. It believes it followed the correct procedure and wrote  to
Miss L twice. It also said she was made aware that it couldnt agree to backdate the payment 
to the previous tax year two days  after her complaint call, so she couldve made her next 
payment then.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May 2019. I said that I didnt think the 
complaint should  be upheld.  
I listened to the call recording from when Miss L originally  put her money  into her direct ISA, 
and acknowledged  that the adviser  made no mention of Miss L needing to complete a 
declaration before her payment would be accepted as her ISA subscription for that tax year.  
The adviser did ask whether  Miss L wanted  them to go through  the key features and benefits 
of the direct  ISA before the payment was put through,  however Miss L said what she 
understood them to be  that she could draw  money out and it wasnt taxable.
But I also considered  what NS&I told us about  the information the adviser would have 
access to as this didnt include a transaction history. So I said it seemed that they wouldnt 
have been aware  that Miss L hadnt made  a subscription in the previous  tax year which 
would mean  a need to complete a declaration, and there wasnt any system alert or warning 
to let the adviser know this. Earlier in the conversation the adviser had asked if Miss L 
wanted to receive  her paperwork  by email, but she didnt.  This meant  it would be sent to her 
in the post.
I said that the need to complete this declaration is outlined in the terms and conditions of the 
direct ISA which says In accordance with the provisions of the ISA Regulations, if an 
Account holder does not subscribe to their Account for a whole tax year or longer, we will 
send them a new declaration form which they will need to sign and return within  30 days  
before any further  subscriptions can be added. If we do not receive the signed  declaration  
with 30 days we will refund the subscription  that caused the new declaration  form to be 
issued. No interest will be earned or paid on that subscription for the intervening period.
I said NS&I had explained that its systems recognise when there  has been a gap in the ISA 
subscriptions for a least one full tax year and a letter is then generated to the customer  
which asks them to sign the declaration. I saw a copy of this letter  and the reminder letter  
sent two weeks  later.  These appeared to be correctly addressed to Miss L, although I said I 
appreciated that she didnt receive either of them, and was away from home for a period  
through this time.
Ref: DRN46377013However, after considering these circumstances,  I didnt  think  it would be fair to require NS&I 
to compensate Miss L for this missed tax allowance and the interest she wouldve earned 
over the next three years. This was because the need to complete a formed  part of the terms 
and conditions of having the direct ISA, and NS&I wrote to Miss L twice,  giving her a 30-day  
time period to reply. Shed chosen  not to receive any paperwork by email and the adviser 
offered to go through the key features and benefits  with her. I said I couldnt be certain that 
this wouldve  included  that a declaration would be needed if no subscription had been  made  
for the previous tax year,  but it didnt seem that the adviser she was speaking to wouldve 
been alerted that this was the situation for Miss L.
I also listened to the call recording from when Miss L made her complaint about  the payment 
being returned and questioned why this was. I thought it was fair to say that the adviser she 
spoke to didnt  have all the information about  the missed  tax year and declaration either.  
They needed to speak to a senior colleague and registered the issue  as a complaint as they 
werent sure how it would be resolved. In this call Miss L asked about reinvesting the 
£20,000 but the adviser said she should  talk to the complaints department  first to make sure 
it wouldnt cause any issues.
NS&I sent its response letter to this complaint two days after this call, and this set out why it 
wouldnt backdate  the payment to the previous tax year. So, although Miss L was advised  
not to make  a payment  during the call but to wait for the matter  to be looked  at, she then 
wouldve been aware of NS&Is decision, or couldve  called again at that stage  if she wanted 
to make this payment.  Because of this, I didnt  think NS&I should be required to backdate 
the payment to the date of the complaint call. 
Overall, I thought NS&I  had taken reasonable steps to let Miss L know that the declaration  
was needed.
the responses
NS&I responded  to say it accepted my provisional decision.
Miss L discussed her response to my provisional  decision with the investigator and asked 
that I listen to the recording  of this call, which I have done.
In summary,  she feels that I havent  taken into account or referred to her responses to the 
questions Id asked  before  reaching my provisional decision, which she hadnt  felt 
comfortable in answering. She feels that NS&I  had a responsibility  to let her know that it 
required more paperwork completing  after shed made the initial  payments to her ISA. She 
found it difficult to believe  that NS&Is representatives didnt have access to her transaction  
history, as when she called to make the deposit for the tax year 2018/2019   the 
representative had let her know that the declaration was needed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN46377014I am sorry  to hear that my provisional decision has caused Miss L upset, and how the 
questions that I asked before made  her feel. At the same time as requesting  this information 
from her, I also asked NS&I for copies of the relevant call recordings of when it spoke to 
Miss L. My intention in asking for this further information from both NS&I and Miss L was to 
make sure I felt I had the full picture  of the background circumstances; Miss Ls situation and 
what was said during these calls, to allow me to take all of the wider  aspects  into account 
when reaching  my decision. 
And I have  listened  again to the call recording where Miss L made her payment to her direct 
ISA that shes referred to. The representative takes  the details and is initially  unable to 
process it but isnt sure why. It seems to me that its when he looks further into it, that he 
understands the issue with the payment in March  and NS&I not receiving the declaration,  
and this is discussed with Miss L. He is able to then process the payment and let Miss L 
know that the declaration would be needed.
So although  I do appreciate Miss Ls point about not being told this back in March, from 
listening to the call recording  I dont  think it was clear to the representative  initially  that 
Miss L hadnt made a contribution to her ISA in the previous  year. So it seems  unlikely the 
first representative wouldve had access to this information when they were able to process 
the payment.
Taking everything into account,  my decision remains that I think NS&I  gave Miss L sufficient 
information that would let her know that a declaration would be needed to accept a 
contribution to her direct ISA for that tax year,  through its terms and conditions  and through  
the letters it wrote to her.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4637701