K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  about Legal  & General Insurance Limited (L & G) and its rejection of part of 
his claim for an escape of water.  
background 
I issued a provisional decision on the case as follows  
Mr L made a claim for an escape of water  from an upstairs bathroom, which also damaged
the lounge and kitchen below it. L & Gs agents  inspected the house and only offered to pay
part if the claim. They felt that whilst  there had been a burst pipe a considerable amount of
the damage had been caused  by ongoing  leaks from poorly maintained  aspects of the
bathroom. The policy doesnt cover damage arising from poor maintenance. Mr L
complained to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and felt that L & G should reconsider the
claim. L & G did not agree, stating that the evidence as they see it doesnt  confirm the
damage is from just one escape  of water. The case has therefore been  referred  to me for
review.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think the evidence supports paying this claim in full. Both sides have provided
extensive reports and photographs, and to me these show two types of damage.  One
caused by a sudden escape  of water over a short period of time, and one an ongoing  leak
due to poor maintenance. Whilst I appreciate neither side will agree it seems to me that
these two issues cannot reasonably be separated as far as damage goes, so my current
view is that L & G should pay 50% of the claim, subject to the rest of the policy conditions.
With regard to Mr Ls views I dont agree that some of the damage described and seen in the
photographs could  reasonably be caused  by one escape of water over a few days maximum
duration. Whilst I note the comments on mould and rust it does appear that some of this
damage has been going on for some time.
Equally I dont accept  L & Gs view that the majority of the damage has been caused  over
time, and equally important that the remedy here would  be mainly down to Mr L making
repairs. Where  it not for the burst pipe it does appear that only more  minor repairs would be
needed.
So as I consider part of the claim is covered and part not I think each side should bear the
repair bill equally, subject  to other  policy constraints. I say this as to go through  and itemise
each issue and apportion liability would most likely not result  in a very different outcome,
would be time consuming and probably require additional specialist reports at the expense  of
both sides. With that in mind I think the 50 / 50 compromise is an appropriate way forward.
However if either wishes to contest  this they can, but please bear in mind the potential  lack
of conclusive proof  over some of the issues here.
My current  view is that L & G should meet 50% of the claim,  subject  to the other  policy
conditions.
Ref: DRN44212292Since my provisional decision both sides have responded, both sides  have concerns over 
my views. 
L & G consider that their agent will have to return and Mr L will need to cooperate  with this. 
That their contractors wont  do part insurance  part private work, so they will have to offer a 
cash settlement. And that any cash settlement should be based on their contractors rates  to 
them (L & G) not private rates.  
Mr L contends  that his home was fine before the water damage  and he has had 11 months 
of living  in a home in a terrible state.  He restates  his issues with L & Gs agent, and states 
they have told lies. He has also provided evidence from a website as to reviews of the 
agent that are less than positive. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be changing my provisional view as to settlement, but I do need to clarify some 
issues here. 
I know Mr L doesnt agree with me but the photographs I have seen do in my opinion show  
some longer  lasting issues. It doesnt seem to be damage  that would be caused so soon 
after what  I dont doubt was a cascade of escaping water which originated  the claim. So, I do 
think the 50% contribution is the right answer,  as any other percentage would most probably 
be equally  imprecise. 
I think from their comments  that both sides may accept  that decision,  albeit  grudgingly, but 
the problem will be with the actual amount needed to resolve this. I dont think  I can resolve 
that in this decision. This decision needs to stand or fall on the 50 / 50 issue,  and if in future 
the actual amount at stake cannot be resolved the matter can come  back  to us a new case  
about that. 
I would though like to suggest  some  guidance  for both sides. This cant form part of the 
binding (if accepted) part of this decision as its for events in the future  but both sides  should  
consider it. Its clear Mr L doesnt  get on with L & Gs agent, and equally the agent doesnt 
appear to be particularly believing of Mr L. This might be expected  in a case  such  as this 
where both sides are so opposed on the causes  of the claim, but if L & G arent prepared to 
arrange a different agent, and I dont  expect them to as their agent is their choice in these 
circumstances, both Mr L and the agent  should try and look at these matters  constructively, 
with a view to reaching a fair conclusion, rather than continuing to disagree over the subject 
matter of the claim. 
As to the extent  of work I would hope that both sides can agree  a list of works, and apply the 
50% factor to that. As for cost Im not sure that L & G can entirely  enforce their own 
contractor costs, as many  contractors would  be prepared  to split private and insurance work. 
But until that position has been reached this service cannot judge that. 
Ref: DRN44212293my final decision
Legal & General Insurance Limited  should meet 50% of the claim,  subject  to the policy 
conditions. If it isnt possible for them and Mr L to reach  agreement  on the amount that 
equals, Mr L may come back  to us with a new complaint  concerning the settlement amount. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4421229