K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Premium Credit Limited  (PCL)  wrongly added an insurance  premium 
payment to his credit  agreement. My references to PCL include its agents.
background
Mr K had an insurance policy through a broker. PCL provided the credit for the item Mr K 
insured. Some payments  were added to and then removed from the credit agreement, so 
were resolved before Mr K complained to us. Mr K complains about  the outstanding matter;  
that PCL wrongly added an additional  premium of £60.22 to his credit agreement, failed  to 
quickly remove it from the account and didnt pay him enough  compensation.
PCL said in January  2019 it received instruction from the broker to apply an additional 
premium of £60.22  to Mr Ks credit agreement  so he should complain to the broker. But PCL 
accepted that in March 2019  it failed to follow the brokers  instruction  to remove the £60.22 
from the agreement  which meant  Mr K made  a higher credit  payment for March. PCL offered 
Mr K £25 compensation for his inconvenience  caused by it not removing the £60.22  earlier.
Mr K complained to us about the broker. One of our investigators thought PCL,  rather  than 
the broker, was responsible for the £60.22  being wrongly added to the agreement. On Mr Ks 
complaint about  PCL another of our investigators thought it more likely than not that PCL 
was responsible for the error and it should  increase  the compensation to £75.
Mr K accepted our investigators recommendation of £75, PCL didnt  and wanted  an 
ombudsmans decision. It said the request to add the £60.22 had been submitted to it by the 
brokers external system  which PCL couldnt access.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  that I was intending to uphold this complaint for different 
reasons than given  by our investigator. I said:
PCL and the broker dont dispute the £60.22 was wrongly added  to Mr Ks agreement,  but 
they say the other is responsible.
Ive read the evidence  provided by PCL and the broker.  PCL provided a transaction  report  
showing the transaction of an additional premium at £60.22 being  made  on 9 January 2019 
at 10:03:11. The sender ID was recorded  as the broker. However the report  isnt evidence of 
who gave instruction to process the transaction.  The broker says it didnt give instructions to 
PCL for the transaction and has asked PCL to provide evidence of instructions, which  its 
failed to provide.
Our investigators opinion  letters detailed her investigation into the brokers  audit trail for the 
insurance policy and other internal records including the broker's transaction  record. Ive 
also seen PCL and the brokers points about how the sender ID changes  depending on how 
the instruction  is sent. I won't repeat  all the details but in summary there are no records of 
the transaction for £60.22 in the brokers internal records. And if the transaction on 
9 January 2019 had been carried  out directly by the broker the sender ID should state the ID 
of the individual who carried out the instruction, which the sender ID on PCLs record 
doesnt. All that evidence suggests its more  likely  than not that PCL,  not the broker, is 
responsible for the £60.22  being  added to Mr Ks agreement.
Ref: DRN49196282However, PCL says the way the additional premium has been submitted to it is only 
processed by the brokers web service.  PCL says it cant access  the brokers  external web 
service, log in or submit  business on the brokers behalf. That evidence suggests its more  
likely than not that the broker, not PCL, is responsible for the £60.22  being added  to Mr Ks 
agreement.
On the evidence Ive seen  its not clear to me whether  PCL or the broker is responsible for 
the £60.22 being  added  to Mr Ks credit agreement.
But the important  point is Mr Ks distress  and inconvenience arose from PCL not quickly 
removing the £60.22  when instructed to which resulted in him having to make  a higher 
payment for March  2019.  PCL has accepted  it was at fault in not removing the £60.22  when 
instructed to by the broker. I understand that the £60.22 was removed shortly  after 
March 2019.
PCL accepts Mr K was inconvenienced by its error but I dont think PCLs offer of £25 was 
enough. I think £75 compensation in total (including  the £25 its already paid) is a fair 
amount so it must pay Mr K additional  £50 compensation.
responses to my provisional  decision
PCL and Mr K accepted  my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As PCL and Mr K accepted my provisional decision Ive no reason to change  my mind.  For 
the reasons Ive given in my provisional  findings I uphold this complaint. PCL must pay Mr K 
£75 compensation  in total (including the £25 its already paid) for his  inconvenience  due to 
its error that Ive detailed  above.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Premium  Credit  Limited to pay Mr K £50 compensation in 
addition to the £25 its already paid for his distress and inconvenience, as it now agrees.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4919628