K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc gave him a business loan and overdraft 
that he couldnt afford to repay.  He asks that it writes off interest and charges and accepts a 
token payment to repay the capital.  
background
Mr D has had an overdraft facility with NatWest since 2009. He says it continued to offer 
more loans and credit when he couldnt repay  existing debts. Mr D says hes paid about 
£30,000 in interest  and charges. Hes struggling with repayments and says NatWest has 
threatened to put a charging  order on his house.  This has caused him a great deal of stress.
This service previously issued a decision to NatWest and Mr D saying that our rules only 
allow us to look into events since November 2012.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He said NatWest 
had responded  positively  and sympathetically when made  aware of Mr Ds circumstances. 
Mr D had stopped  making  contractual monthly payments to his loan account in November 
2012. NatWest had asked for information about his income and expenditure. It stopped 
applying interest  to Mr Ds loan account  and overdraft in 2013  and has been accepting  token 
payments. 
Our investigator said Mr D should contact  NatWests recoveries team if he wants to discuss 
the charging order or make an offer towards the debt.
Mr D didnt agree and so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
I understand Mr D is disappointed that we cant look into events  before November 2012,  in 
particular his concerns  about when he took out the overdraft and loan. But, as the 
ombudsman explained  in her decision, our rules dont allow  us to do so. So here I will only 
consider Mr Ds complaint  about events since then.
In November 2012 Mr D had a business  loan and an overdraft with NatWest.  Mr D was 
unable to maintain  contractual  monthly payments to the loan account. 
I think NatWest  responded sympathetically to Mr Ds financial difficulties. It stopped applying 
interest to the loan account and overdraft  in early 2013. NatWest says no charges were 
applied to the loan account  since November 2012  and provided statements  to support this. It 
also provided statements  which show no charges were applied to the business  account after 
February 2013. In September 2013 NatWest wrote  to Mr Ds representative confirming that 
interest and charges were suspended and that it would accept reduced payments to both 
accounts.
Ref: DRN48929112Although Mr D made some repayments  a significant amount of debt remains outstanding. 
NatWest is looking at how it can be repaid. One of the options its considering is to apply to 
court for a charging  order on Mr Ds house.  I can understand  that Mr D is worried  about this. 
Mr D has been in touch  with a charity  that offers advice about debt. NatWests notes show  
its discussed with Mr Ds representative what other  options might be available,  including 
settling the debt for less than the outstanding  balance or taking out an equity  release  
mortgage. While there  are several options  potentially available  to Mr D, I appreciate that 
each will have disadvantages. 
However, Mr D took out the loan and overdraft  and had use of the money.  Its reasonable for 
NatWest to expect lending to be repaid in accordance with the account terms. Im sorry that 
Mr Ds circumstances have made this difficult. 
NatWest responded  positively and sympathetically  when it became aware of Mr Ds financial 
hardship. It suspended  interest and charges and accepted token  payments  for a significant 
period of time. Its notes of discussions with Mr Ds representative suggest NatWest is 
flexible about  reaching an agreement to repay  the debt. I dont think  its fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances to require  NatWest  to write off all or part of the outstanding balance.
Id expect NatWest to continue to treat Mr D fairly. And Id encourage Mr D to stay in contact 
with NatWest with a view to agreeing how to repay the debt. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4892911