K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr G says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr G says he was told over the phone that he had to take the PPI for the credit card 
application to be successful. Capital One has said Mr G took out the credit card and PPI 
policy through a postal  application, so he wouldnt have discussed the PPI over the phone. 
Capital One has given me a copy of the signed  credit agreement from the sale. Looking  at 
this, I agree  it was a postal application. Mr Gs address was typed out in the top left hand 
corner of the form which,  from my experience, is typical of a postal application.  
The form had a separate section for PPI with a yes and no option. I can see Mr G ticked 
the yes box and in my opinion, both options were equally  prominent.  So I think  Capital One 
made it clear  that Mr G didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. And 
nothing on the application form suggested taking the PPI would affect the credit card 
application in any way.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr G got the information  he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. 
Mr G had no sick pay or savings available to him when he took out the PPI. The policy 
couldve covered  his repayments for up to 12 months if he was too ill to work, had an 
accident or was made redundant. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr G, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN47239462To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr G any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4723946