K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that the benefits of a solar panel  system installed at his home  were  
misrepresented to him. In particular, Mr B says he was told that the solar  panel system 
would be self-funding, and generate a profit for him, from day one. Mr B is represented and 
his representative  says that Shawbrook  Bank  Limited (Shawbrook), is jointly and severable 
liable for the misrepresentation under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (the Act). 
It also says that there is an unfair relationship in respect of s140A of the Act.  
background
In or around February 2014,  Mr B was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel  system  (the system)  to be installed at his home. Mr 
Bs representative says that Mr B was told that the system would be self-funding  and there 
would be no cost to him. After being  visited by a representative  of P, Mr B decided to 
purchase the system  and finance  it through  a 15-year fixed  sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system  was subsequently  installed.
Mr Bs representative says that he was promised a year one benefit of about £1,100. 
However it wasnt pointed  out that that, taking  into account of the loan payments,  there  
would be no benefit  and there  would  actually be a deficit. It says that Mr B would not have 
entered into the agreement had he known this. In practice the system had not been  self-
funding and he faces a shortfall  between the costs  of the system and the savings or benefits 
it generates. It also said that the cost of the system was advised to Mr B as about £7,500 
when in fact it was nearly £15,000 when interest on the loan was included. He was also 
misled about the extent  of the savings  he would achieve. It said that the financial benefit was 
only about £1,200 after 20 years and it does not believe it logical to make such  an outlay if 
that was the only benefit. 
Mr Bs representative said the credit  agreement should be cancelled  and the money paid to 
Shawbrook (plus interest) by Mr B should  be refunded to him. 
Shawbrook said, in response to the complaint, that having reviewed the information  it held 
on file, as well as information provided  by P, that it didnt agree  the system had been  
misrepresented to Mr B. It said that he was receiving the estimated  level of savings and he 
was also saving money on electricity costs.  It also said that Mr B had been provided  with all 
the relevant paperwork  and been advised  that the savings were estimated.  
The complaint was referred  to this service and it was considered by an investigator. Having 
considered all the information and evidence provided, our investigator thought  that P had led 
Mr B to believe  that the system would be self-funding  when this was not the case. He 
advised Shawbrook  of this. The investigator later reviewed the complaint having received  
details of the benefits Mr B had received. She thought that the system was generating less 
benefits than Mr B had been led to believe by the sales literature. She suggested redress  
that compensated Mr B in respect  of the first two years the system had been operating. 
Mr Bs representative did not believe that the redress was appropriate  submitting  that Mr 
Bs losses would  extend into the future. Compensating him for two years was not sufficient. 
The complaint was then reviewed by a different investigator. She considered  all the 
documentation Mr B had been  provided  with at the time the solar system was sold to him. 
She thought  that the documentation suggested to Mr B that the solar system would be self-
Ref: DRN43933652funding from outset.  She thought this supported Mr Bs comments about being misled.  She 
also thought the true cost of the system including the cost of the loan was not made  clear.  
She thought  that Mr B would  not have opted  for the solar system if he was aware his 
outgoings would increase.  She suggested redress  so that Mr B would not be disadvantaged  
over a 15 year term. 
Mr Bs representative accepted the investigators assessment.
  
Shawbrook responded and said that it believed the system was self-funding as the financial 
benefits of the system at least equalled the cost of the system.  The investigator reviewed the 
complaint, comparing  the costs and the benefits provided by the system.  She thought that 
Shawbrook was correct  that, including the likely benefit of the hot water  controller, the 
system was self-funding  and so didnt believe Shawbrook should do anything further.
Mr Bs representative did not agree. It did not agree that the investigators calculations as to 
energy savings were  correct. It said that the electricity usage before the system installation  
on which the investigator had based her findings, were estimated. And so they did not likely 
represent the true cost. It said that the energy savings should be based on an agreed rate of 
37% of the generation rate of the solar panels  which was significantly less than the 
investigator had estimated. And it didnt agree that it was possible to establish  what  savings 
or benefits the hot water controller was generating and so that shouldnt  be taken into 
account. 
Mr B was contacted for his comments. He said that he had an LPG supply and therefore 
couldnt supply  gas bills. Consequently there was no way to know  how much  gas was being 
used or what the savings  would be. The savings were speculative. He also said that the hot 
water controller was battery  powered  and it was installed on an external meter that kept 
failing  so he couldnt say if the water was being  heated by solar  at all times.   
Mr B said that the solar  system  was sold to hm on the basis  that it would be self-funding  and 
generate an additional income.  He doesnt  believe  the system generated the benefits that P 
told him it would. He asked whether we had sight of the original sales literature and what 
they might  have projected the FIT payments  to be? He remained of the view he had been 
mis-sold. 
Consequently the complaint has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes  section  56 and section  75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services  bought  using credit. It states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
Ref: DRN43933653the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly  be jointly and severally  liable to the 
debtor.
As Mr B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, section 75 applies to this 
transaction. This means that Mr B could claim  against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  by P in the same way he could have claimed against 
P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section  75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations  between Mr B and 
P, as the supplier,  are deemed to have  been  conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision  Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made  by one party (or his agent) to a second party which  induces 
that second party to enter  the contract, thereby  causing them  loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising  out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair  to the debtor  
because of one or more  of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related  agreement;
(c) any other  thing  done (or not done)  by, or on behalf of, the creditor  (either before 
or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall have
regard to all matters it thinks  relevant (including  matters relating to the creditor  and matters
relating to the debtor).
There are several documents that have been provided by Mr B and Shawbrook.  These  
include the credit agreement and Mr Bs solar Quote document. Ive considered these in 
detail.
The Quote  is a detailed  document  that sets out key information about the system, the
expected performance, financial benefits  and technical information. Im satisfied that it
formed a central part of the sales  process  and is therefore relevant when considering  if there
have been any untrue statements of fact, taking into account Mr Bs recollection of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being  borrowed, the interest to be charged, total
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual  monthly repayments.
Shawbrook does seem  to have acknowledged in response to the investigators assessment 
that the documentation could have led Mr B to believe  that the system would be self-
funding from day one. But, in any event, the investigator discussed in detail how the 
information Mr B was given was likely  to create  the impression  that the system would be 
self-funding. 
Ref: DRN43933654I will not go into detail considering that, as I will explain, I do not believe this matter materially  
affects the outcome of the complaint. However,  in brief,  the investigator set out, and I agree 
with her assessment,  that the documentation  Mr B was given would likely create  the 
impression that the system would be self-funding. The System Analysis, particularly the 
Putting It All Together section, and the System Performance and returns  document, 
suggest that there will be a profit  from the scheme, from the start. However this does not 
include the costs  of the loan Mr B was to take on. Where there are tables and data that 
include loan payments, it is still projected that the system will be self-funding from the start. 
However, in practice,  this was not guaranteed.
But, considering the evidence available,  it is more likely that the system is effectively self-
funding  that is, it is providing  benefits at least equal to the costs.
I appreciate that Mr Bs representative has said that a particular assumed rate should be 
used for system energy  generation.  That might  be appropriate in certain situations but where  
we have, as here, information about the actual real benefits being provided,  I think it is more 
appropriate to use that in an assessment. I also recognise the comments that have been 
made about the estimated  nature of the energy usage in Mr Bs energy  bills. However  I 
believe that it remains appropriate to use those bills as a reasonable and appropriate  
estimation of typical energy usage.
The investigator set out the FIT payments Mr B had received  using September  2014 to 
December 2015  as an indicative period for which information was available. This showed 
that, for a full year, Mr B had received FIT payments of about £675.  Furthermore,  Mr Bs 
electricity bills before and after the system  installation indicated  that he was achieving  
savings of about £260 a year.  The cost of Mr Bs system is about £984 a year.  The evidence 
is that Mr B received about £935 in combined FIT payments and energy savings. As the 
investigator highlighted, Mr B also had a hot water controller installed with the system. The 
estimated savings from this are said to be about  £140 a year,  albeit that is not certain 
because bills cannot be provided for gas usage.  But even if the hot water  controller is 
yielding savings less than that, I believe it is likely that it is generating savings at least equal 
to the approximate £50 a year difference between the system cost and combined FIT and 
energy savings.  
So, in my view it is more  likely than not that Mr Bs system was effectively self-funding from 
the start.  And this does  not take account  of the fixed cost of the loan but increasing  benefit of 
the system  given  likely  and actual increases in energy costs.
Mr B has also queried how the benefits  of the system were set out at outset  were the 
benefits exaggerated? Whilst,  as discussed,  I dont  believe the costs and benefits  were set 
out adequately, I dont  believe the evidence is that the returns  themselves were exaggerated  
(bearing in mind they were estimates).  In practice  the evidence  is that the system generated 
FIT payments and energy savings at least equal to the estimates set out in the original 
documentation. 
In conclusion I believe the evidence is that the system was self-funding is the respect that it 
was generating  benefits from the start at least equal  to the costs. And it is likely it would 
continue to do so  in fact likely  to provide an increasing benefit to Mr B. So my view is that 
the system operated generally as Mr B was led to believe. Therefore  I do not believe it would 
be fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint or require Shawbrook  to pay an award or 
take any further action in respect of Mr Bs complaint. 
   
Ref: DRN43933655S140A
Given that the system  is self-funding as Mr B was led to believe, Shawbrook  has confirmed
that it paid no commission to P and the underlying assumptions (as discussed) used by P 
were reasonable, I dont  believe that a court is likely to conclude  that there  is an unfair  
relationship under the Act.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2021.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4393365