K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has unfairly agreed to settle her car 
insurance claim as 50/50 when she wasnt  at fault.
background
In March 2018 Mrs Hs vehicle was involved in a car accident. Mrs H says she was 
stationary at a roundabout  when a third party  collided  with the rear of her car. 
The third party disagreed, and said instead  Mrs H had approached the roundabout across  
painted road markings.  And the accident  occurred  because  Mrs H changed lanes in front of 
their correctly proceeding vehicle.
Mrs H explained her version of events  to UKI and it wrote to the third partys insurer   
Insurer A  in May 2018.  And UKI said based  on the photos it had seen, it didnt think  it was 
possible Mrs H could have undertook the other vehicle past the white hatched markings.
UKI reviewed Insurer As position and questioned its version of events. Some  back  and forth 
discussion took place  but there was no agreement about what  happened. Overall UKI said it 
did believe  Mrs Hs account of events,  but it said due to the nature of the damage both 
accounts were plausible. And as there  wasnt enough independent evidence to support 
UKIs case in a court of law  such as CCTV or witnesses  so it didnt  believe  there  was a 
realistic prospect of success  if it pursued  the matter.
So UKI agreed to settle this claim as 50/50 on a without prejudice basis   meaning Mrs H 
could take the matter  to court if she wished to. And it said if Mrs H did take her own 
independent legal action and obtained a judgment  fully in her favour it would  amend its 
records accordingly.
Mrs H disagreed, and argued  it had agreed  to do this on the basis  of the two insurers being  
part of the same parent group company. She said the third partys  account of events had 
been inconsistent  and UKI had only agreed  to settle  the claim to resolve  this matter quickly.
Mrs H brought her complaint to our service. She has asked that UKI reassesses the claim 
using an independent expert  using  collision  reconstruction software.  And shes  asked for her 
no fault claims history to be reinstated.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. He explained our role 
isnt to consider  the claim itself, but instead to say whether UKI had acted fairly and 
reasonably when making a decision about the claim  based on of the information available.
The investigator said the information  given  by both sides was similar  meaning both cars 
were loosely in the same  position and taking  the same route  in both accounts. UKI said this 
meant both versions  of events are plausible, even  if it believed  Mrs H.
The investigator said it isnt unusual for there to be disputes following accidents. But 
because there was no CCTV, camera footage or independent witnesses, theres little 
information to indicate that disproves either  account.  And having  looked through the 
evidence UKI said it didnt believe it had a reasonable prospect of success  in court   so it 
agreed to a 50/50 split. In the circumstances the investigator said this was reasonable.
Ref: DRN40551112Mrs H said she had notes from Insurer A which indicated it wanted to settle  the claim as 
50/50 because  of an intragroup arrangement between  the two insurers. But our investigator 
said there was no evidence to suggest this had been a factor for UKI when deciding whether 
to settle the claim.
The investigator also said UKI doesnt  use accident reconstruction software. And overall 
based on its actions  he felt it had acted reasonably.
Because Mrs H disagreed, the complaint has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans  final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Under the General Conditions of Mrs Hs policy, it says UKI is entitled to:
take over and carry out the negotiation,  defence or settlement of any claim in your  
name
This means  UKI is able to make  decisions about how it proceeds  with a claim  whether to 
attempt negotiation, defend, or settle.
Ive also thought about UKIs obligations under ICOBS 8.1.1 which says it must:
(1) handle claims promptly  and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress; 
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed
Taking into account these  obligations and policy terms,  Ive thought about whether UKI acted 
fairly when  deciding to settle Mrs Hs claim on a 50/50 basis.
 
Ive seen that UKI did challenge Insurer A on the third partys version of events a number of 
times. But Insurer A didnt  agree to settle  so it had to decide on next steps.  
I will not go into detail about  all aspects  of the conflicting versions of events within this 
decision. But I agree  with UKI that both accounts  could be considered  plausible  based on 
the road position of the vehicles and commentary  given by respective drivers. So it seems to 
me UKI did consider all of the evidence that was provided by both sides when making  this 
decision.
UKI has said it doesnt doubt  Mrs Hs version of events, but it has said it doesnt see there 
being a reasonable  prospect of success if the case was taken to court. I can understand 
UKIs reluctance to begin legal action as there  isnt much supporting  evidence  in this case  to 
support Mrs Hs claim  such as CCTV or independent witness  statements.
Ref: DRN40551113Ultimately it is up to UKI to decide whether to negotiate, defend or settle the claim. Ive seen 
no evidence to show that UKIs relationship  with Insurer A has impacted its decision when 
agreeing to settle this claim.  And in this case Im satisfied its done this fairly taking into 
account the available evidence.
The claim has been settled without prejudice   meaning Mrs H still has to the option of 
taking legal action  if she wants  to. But this would be without the support of UKI.
Mrs H has also asked that UKI uses collision  reconstruction software to assess her claim. 
UKI isnt required to use this and overall  Im satisfied  its acted fairly when investigating and 
settling this claim. So I wont be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4055111