K820x#14complaint
Miss B says she was misled by Mercer Limited into transferring  her occupational pension pot 
into a personal pension plan. She says shes been  financially  compromised by what  
happened.
background
Miss B took redundancy in 1992  from a company  where shed worked for 14 years.  As part 
of the exit package, Mercer  (then trading under a different name)  was appointed  to provide 
support and advice  about pensions. She says that as a result of this advice, the fund shed 
accrued with her former employer was transferred  into a personal pension  plan in 1993.
As Miss B approached retirement in 2018,  she took financial advice about her pension  
arrangements. She was shocked to find her situation wasnt as healthy  as shed anticipated. 
She was also informed about features  of her plan she hadnt been aware of and which had 
the effect of restricting  what she could do with her funds.
Miss B says that Mercer had effectively told her she couldnt remain in her occupational 
pension scheme. She also said she wasnt given any comparisons between  the deferred  
benefits of her then company scheme  and the personal pension  plan she bought into.
Miss B says shes been seriously disadvantaged  by the transfer  of her fund. She says even 
the minimum pension  plan illustrations provided through  Mercer in 1993 werent achieved.  
She wants significant financial compensation.
Mercer says Miss Bs pension transfer  was reviewed in 2000  following an industry wide 
intervention by the then regulator. It says the review found that at that time shed  suffered no 
financial loss from her decision to transfer.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Miss B disagreed and so her case  has come  to me 
for a final decision.
Separately, Miss B has expressed concerns about  the handling of her personal pension  by 
the provider she had at the time she was approaching retirement. Shes told us about the 
impact this had on her financial and life plans. These matters  were subject of a separate  
complaint raised  against that firm. My decision  here only focusses on what Mercer  is 
responsible for.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Having done  so, I wont be upholding Miss Bs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Im grateful  for Miss Bs detailed testimony, which was very helpful  to me. While I wont  be 
responding to each  individual  point shes made,  I can assure her Ive considered  everything  
shes told this Service.
Ref: DRN42309682Miss Bs main  complaint points relate to advice she received in 1992.  She says she was 
effectively told she had to transfer the benefits from her occupational pension  scheme  
because otherwise her pot wouldnt grow. She says the illustrations she was given showing 
potential returns for a personal  pension plan were excellent  but shes  been  disappointed 
by actual performance. She now thinks the plan was mis-sold  to her.
Where people are advised  to transfer  from occupational pension schemes the responsible 
business should provide  a full explanation of the benefits being given up. And the reasons 
for transferring need to be sound.  We take the view that there has to be reasonable and 
material potential for consumers to be better off to make any such  advice suitable. 
We also expect an advisor  to be able to show  a comparison  was made between the benefits 
that were being  given  up and the benefits  that might  be provided by an alternative  plan.  A 
difficulty we encounter sometimes with complaints about pension transfers which  happened  
a long-time ago is that before January 1995  there wasnt  a strict requirement for detailed  
advice to have  been set out in a reasons  why letter.
However - significantly for Miss Bs case  we do have evidence  resulting from the Pensions 
Review which was established in 1994 by the then regulator, the Securities and Investment 
Board. The Review was industry-wide  and looked  at the practices  of certain  authorised firms 
between April 1988 and June 1994.
The regulator was concerned some  consumers mayve been  given inappropriate  advice to 
transfer deferred pension benefits  from employers occupational schemes  to personal 
pension plans. As Miss Bs transfer happened  in 1993 her case  qualified for a review.
Mercer wrote to Miss B in 1999 and asked whether she wanted her pension  transfer 
reviewed. The letter was titled Your pension: were you badly advised? A leaflet wouldve 
been enclosed  from the FSA. Together these  alerted her to potential  problems with some 
pension transfers.
Miss B was asked whether she wanted her case reviewed. And she was asked for 
information. I can see she engaged with the review process. I say this because Ive seen  a 
copy of the questionnaire  she completed  in August 1999. She returned this to Mercer 
confirming shed like a review to be undertaken.
Mercer sent Miss B an outcome letter in October 2000. This reported that as at the review 
date she hadnt  suffered  a loss on her personal  pension plan. Ive seen the calculations 
underpinning this conclusion. The capital value of her personal  pension in September 2000 
was about £111,000. The equivalent value of her occupational scheme benefits wouldve 
been about £106,000.
Mercer then used financial and economic data laid down by the regulator  to project the value 
of her plan at retirement in 2018.  This included assumptions about plan growth and annuity 
rates.
This part of the exercise again found that if the regulators assumptions were realised then 
the value of Miss Bs plan at retirement would provide benefits that were equivalent to those 
of her former employers  pension scheme. She was given the opportunity  to review the 
calculations if shed  wanted to.
Ref: DRN42309683Miss B said she didnt know if shed received Mercers  outcome letter. I think its more  likely 
than not she did. I say this because it was sent to the correct address. And because  I think 
she wouldve chased up the result if she hadnt heard back because shed asked for the 
review and its importance wouldve been clear  to her.
Miss B said that even  if shed received the letter it wouldnt  have given her cause  for concern 
because it simply told her that she hadnt  been disadvantaged by the transfer.  It wasnt  until 
she retired that the effects of moving  to the personal  pension plan became obvious.
While I understand the point Miss B makes,  the assumptions that the regulator required 
businesses to use for reviewing pension transfers  were realistic based on what was known 
at the time. I recognise, with experience we can see they werent  perfect. In particular,  
investment returns were lower than predicted  and annuity rates  fell significantly.
Nevertheless, the aim of the Pension  Review was to draw a line under any mis-selling 
concerns the regulator had about transfers that had taken place between  1988 and 1994. 
This provided for putting matters right at that time where necessary  once and for all.
It was the judgement of the regulator at the time that if it had directed pension transfers be 
assessed at the point  of retirement  many  people couldve been denied  redress  because  a 
number the businesses wouldve ceased  trading by then.
So, where businesses  have reviewed pension transfers in accordance with the regulators 
instructions, we wouldnt usually require it to look at those again  when plan holders  reach  
retirement. I know  Miss B will be unhappy  about  this.
Miss Bs has raised a question about  whether the review of her pension  transfer  had been 
conducted properly.  Id note the regulator placed strict requirements on businesses and 
acted to ensure  compliance with its guidance  at the time. Firms wouldve utilised standard  
review modelling tools. And they wouldve had internal assurance mechanisms in place.  
Mercer has provided us with a copy of the documentation related to the review  of Miss Bs 
case. Ive not seen  anything which makes me think this wasnt carried out properly.
Miss B can ask Mercer for a copy of the pension review calculations related to her case. If 
she has concerns about these, she could of course  commission expert actuarial advice. But 
she would  need  to meet the costs  of this herself.        
Miss B has brought my attention to another decision made by this Service about a pension 
transfer case which was upheld in favour of the complainant. Ive read the decision and 
thought carefully  about the points  shes made.  But it hasnt changed my mind.
Every case we consider  is determined on its own merits, taking into account the particular 
evidence and circumstances associated with that complaint. The case  Miss B has referred to 
is significantly different to hers. For example, a key factor  in her situation has been the 
review of her pension transfer in 2000, as required by the regulator.  The case  she refers  to 
wasnt subject to that exercise.
Miss B raised various other points about  the transfer  of her occupational  pension scheme 
benefits into a personal pension  plan.  For example,  she says she wasnt aware  of certain  
features, benefits, protections and restrictions associated  with her plan.
Ref: DRN42309684We know that Miss Bs transfer was covered by provisions in section 32 of the Finance Act 
1981. These plans  were  also sometimes called deferred annuity  contracts  or buy-out 
policies. Many of these pension plans were  invested  in with-profits funds, as in Miss Bs 
case. And her plan provided the protection of a guaranteed minimum pension  (GMP).
Miss B says that she didnt become aware  of certain  key features of her pension  until she 
approached retirement.  The events here happened  a long time ago, pensions are a technical 
subject and I appreciate  memories can and do fade. I cant  know  what  was discussed  
between her and Mercers in 1993.
I simply observe that in a letter she was sent by her former employer  in October 1992 about 
the pension benefits shed  accrued, reference  is made to a GMP as a significant feature. I 
also note that in the documentation she received about her new arrangements  reference 
was made  to her pension  transfer plan (section  32), and contract  details were  attached.  
Miss B raised the issue of the pension freedoms that were introduced in 2015  and her 
inability to make the most of these because  of the sort of personal pension plan shed ended  
up with. Clearly, it wouldnt  be reasonable for me to be critical of a business because it didnt 
anticipate the impact of changes in regulation that were 20 years into the future.
In any event, none of Miss Bs remaining arguments  are telling in terms the outcome Ive 
arrived at. Mercer conducted a review of her pension  transfer  in 2000, and based on what  
Ive seen I dont  require it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4230968