K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 1994. Mr C says Allianz  Insurance Plc mis-sold  him the PPI.
Mr C took out the store  card and PPI in a shop  but Allianz  has taken responsibility for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to Allianz  in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr C says that he doesnt recall what happened  when  he took out his store  card and 
PPI. But this isnt surprising for a sale that took place so long ago. So the first thing I 
need to consider is if Allianz gave Mr C a choice  in taking out the policy   and I think that 
it did. I say this because  Allianz  has provided a copy of Mr Cs store card application, 
and I can see that the PPI is presented  as an optional  product, and has been selected.  
Mr C has then signed the application, agreeing to the information on it.
Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said, but these points dont change my decision. And 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the policy was mis-sold.
other considerations
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how lenders should  deal with complaints about the non-disclosure 
of commission where  PPI was sold. 
But Allianz Insurance Plc wasnt Mr Cs lender. So I dont  think  these rules apply. 
Ref: DRN47057972my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
 
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4705797