K820x#14complaint
Mr U complains the vehicle he acquired on hire purchase financed by Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited  was not of satisfactory  quality. He wants to end the 
agreement, reject the vehicle and receive compensation.
background
Mr U tells he acquired the vehicle in late March  2017 - and first complained about 
squeaking brakes  in early April 2017.  And despite a number  of inspections and 
replacement brake  pads he says the problem still exists.
Initially, Mercedes did not provide information and this led to the investigator indicating  her 
intention to uphold  the complaint in March 2018. Subsequently Mercedes did provide 
evidence and this persuaded  the investigator  to change her mind. Mercedes told us it had 
replaced the brake pads in September 2017  - even though it felt they were still serviceable.  
And later the steering  shaft had been  replaced in January  2018  under warranty.
The investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She issued three  views  
as additional information had been  provided by the parties after the first two assessments. In 
her final view she said she was not satisfied the current problem with the brakes was present 
at the point of supply.  She thought a second hand  vehicle had to be safe and driveable. And 
there was no evidence to say the noise meant the vehicle was unsafe.
Mr U wasnt happy with this outcome and wanted  an ombudsman to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr U has not had the level of satisfaction  he might have expected from this vehicle 
when he acquired  it. And I can see theres quite a complex history regarding  whats  taken 
place. I should  also acknowledge  and apologise  for this complaint taking longer to deal with 
than should have been the case. Unfortunately, it was initially  being  considered  against the 
wrong division  of Mercedes. 
Under present  legislation as the supplier  of both the vehicle and finance under the hire 
purchase agreement  Mercedes is responsible for the vehicle being of satisfactory  quality at 
the time of supply.  And whilst I dont apply the law - directly - I do take it into account.  So if I 
thought the vehicle was not of satisfactory  quality when supplied  Id expect Mercedes to put 
things right.
As the vehicle has been subject to a number of inspections and/or repairs  Ill outline  the 
history from the outset. The vehicle was first registered in September  2014. Mr U acquired 
the vehicle when the mileage is recorded  as 26,677. So it can fairly  be described at that time 
as a vehicle of average mileage for its age.
Mr U made  a complaint  about squeaky  brakes within a few days of acquiring the vehicle. 
The vehicle was examined on 24 May 2017  and - whilst I cant see any specific fault was 
identified - the brakes were de-glazed. Following another report  by Mr U of squeaking brakes  
and a knocking  sound the vehicle was again  inspected by a Mercedes garage in July 2017. 
Ref: DRN49233472The mechanics did not identify either of the two issues reported.  And the brakes were 
reported as being in good condition.
Mr U continued to express dissatisfaction and Mercedes replaced the brake  pads in 
September 2017. It said it had done  this - even though the brakes  were  within  the used car 
tolerance - to try to bring the matter to a close.
In January 2018 - after a noise was identified from the steering mechanism - the steering 
shaft was replaced  under  warranty.
In March 2018 the investigator issued her first view - saying she intended to uphold  the 
complaint as shed  only been provided  with information by Mr U and not Mercedes.
In May 2018  the investigator issued  a second  view having received information from 
Mercedes. This information  - including details of the previous inspections and change of 
brake pads  - caused her to change her mind. She explained that without further  evidence  to 
show there was a fault with the vehicle  - which was present at the point  of supply - she 
wouldnt be asking Mercedes to do anything else. But she said if Mr U supplied  evidence 
from an expert to show there  was such a fault shed  consider it.
Following this, on 14 May 2018,  Mr U had the vehicle seen by both a local mechanic who Ill 
call A and an RAC breakdown mechanic. The RAC  report stated the brakes had been 
checked and a road test had been  completed. But no fault had been found. It recommended  
the vehicle be taken to a garage for a full inspection. The mileage recorded at that point was 
31,339. The report  by A referred to hearing  a squeak from the rear brake pads and 
suggested they may require cleaning or replacing.
In order to consider  this vehicle was not of satisfactory quality when supplied Id have to 
think a reasonable  person would not consider it satisfactory.  This was a used  vehicle and as 
such it neednt be perfect.  The squeak which Mr U has referred to appears to have been  
intermittent as its been identified at certain inspections but not at others. 
Ive considered all the reports  following inspections and repairs.  None of these  has identified 
any specific issue apart from the intermittent squeaking. The reports  which have resulted 
following a brake  inspection have each concluded there is no safety issue. Nor have they 
stated that the cause  of the noise  - whatever it may be - was present at the point of supply.
And whilst Mr U has chosen  not to use the vehicle as much as might have been expected - 
theres no evidence  of any mechanical or safety  reason why he is not able to do so.
On the evidence available Im unable  to conclude there is sufficient evidence to say the 
cause of the current squeaking  is due to any defect present at the point of supply. The RAC 
inspection states  there  is no fault with the brakes. So its not clear  that stripping down and 
cleaning and lubricating the brakes - for which a Mercedes estimate  has been provided - will 
solve the issue. The brake pads were replaced  in September  2017  and the vehicle had not 
travelled much more  than another 1,000  miles at the time of the latest  inspections.
Whilst I can see why the intermittent squeaking sound might be an irritation  Ive not seen 
persuasive evidence  to make me think the vehicle  was not of satisfactory quality when 
supplied.
So whilst I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr U Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN49233473my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4923347