K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in 2003. 
Mr and Mrs S applied  for the MPPI  over the phone.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint because Santander recommended  the 
policy to Mr and Mrs S but I dont think it was right for them. Mrs S had a medical condition 
when they bought the policy which wouldnt have been covered. And 
I dont think Mr and Mrs S wouldve  bought the policy if Santander  had made clear it wasnt  
right for them. So, I think Mr and Mrs S have lost out because  of what Santander  did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Santanders comments,  including that its said Mrs Ss medical 
condition wouldve been discussed at the point of sale, with the adviser asking questions and 
informing them of how this would affect  their cover. But Santander has provided no evidence 
to support what it says  so I cant say that Santander informed Mr and Mrs S of the ways in 
which the policy wasnt suitable to them and that they chose to take the policy  anyway. So I 
still think I should uphold  the complaint.
putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs S in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S the amount they paid each  month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.  
If Mr and Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN46929242my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Santander UK Plc should 
put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4692924