K821x#15complaint
Miss Bs unhappy with the way Advantage  Insurance  Company Limited  settled a claim on 
her motor insurance policy and that its recorded  a fault claim against  her. 
background
Advantage was contacted by a third party insurer alleging  Miss B had been  involved in an 
accident. Advantage said this was on 30 January 2018. Miss B said she hadnt as she was 
in hospital and provided evidence of that. 
Advantage subsequently realised itd given her the wrong date as the incident was on 24 
January 2018  and there was an independent  witness whod identified Miss Bs vehicle. 
Miss B was upset by the request for more information and said given the time thatd passed  
shed now find it difficult to prove where she was.
Advantage also obtained an engineers report which showed  some damage to Miss Bs car 
which it considered  was consistent with what the third party  and witness had said. 
Advantage decided to accept liability for the accident as it didnt feel it had enough to defend 
the claim.
Miss B maintains she wasnt involved in an accident  and is unhappy that this has affected 
her premiums to the extent she cant now afford  to insure her car.  
Advantage said in its final response that itd taken the engineers report and witness 
evidence into account. And the terms and conditions of the policy allow  it to conduct  the 
defence or settlement of a claim.  It was entitled  to settle the claim as itd done. But it offered 
to pay £70 compensation for the inconvenience itd caused.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be partly upheld. He said:
The terms of the policy  allow Advantage to decide how a claim should be settled. 
Here there was an independent  witness who identified Miss Bs car and an engineer  
found damage on her car consistent with what was alleged. Miss B also said the 
engineer found  traces  of white paint  on her car which was consistent with the colour 
of the third partys  car. The damage  to the other car wasnt significant but it was 
expensive to repair. Based on the available evidence Advantage's  decision to accept 
liability was reasonable.
Miss Bs unhappy with the increase in her premium. But as shed paid extra  to protect  
her no claims  bonus even though her NCB wasnt affected and was applied  on 
renewal, her overall premium increased  because of the risk represented by the claim 
made against her policy.
Advantage has acknowledged its mistake  in giving Miss B the incorrect accident 
date. That delayed  the claim being dealt  with and was at a time Miss B was in 
hospital following  a very distressing family event. Having to relive  that was 
particularly upsetting for her and resulted in her wasting  her time. Advantage has 
offered her £70 compensation  but that isnt enough to compensate her for the 
prolonged distress  shes been caused.  It should  pay her £200  for this.
Ref: DRN40001432Miss B doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. She and her representative 
say the amount offered  is too low. She didnt have an accident  and was elsewhere the week  
before going into hospital.  The car also had no damage on it and she doesnt know how 
Advantage blamed her. Even  the eye witness changed the date of the accident and it was a 
scam and false claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Its not our role to decide whos at fault for an accident. But we can look into whether 
Advantage has conducted a reasonable investigation into a claim, when making its own 
decision on liability.
Under the terms of the policy Advantage is entitled  to defend  and settle a claim as it sees  fit. 
It also doesnt need Miss Bs approval  of any decision to admit liability,  settle a claim  or 
make a payment  to a third party. 
Overall I think  Advantage has investigated matters reasonably. Once it identified the correct 
accident date it considered the vehicles damage  and what  each party  and the independent 
witnesses said. It also took account of the independent engineers  report on Miss Bs car. As 
a result it concluded it didnt think it could successfully defend  the third partys  claim. And it 
decided to accept  liability and settle it.
Miss B disagrees with Advantages interpretation  of the evidence  and decision to settle the 
claim in favour of the other party but I dont think its failed to comply with the policy terms or 
exercised its discretion  unfairly or unreasonably when deciding  to settle the case  as its 
done. 
But Advantage accepts it made an error  when  first referring to the accident  date.  I think  that 
error inevitably increased the amount  of distress and inconvenience Miss B was caused over 
and above what  wouldve  occurred if the correct  date had been  given right from the start. It 
forced her to reconsider for a second time whatd happened at a time shed  experienced 
very stressful and upsetting  personal  issues. That warrants an award  of some 
compensation.
Advantage has offered £70 for this. But I dont think thats enough.  Taking everything into 
account, including the level of awards we make, I agree with the investigator that an award  
of a total of £200 is fair and reasonable for the additional distress and inconvenience caused  
to Miss B by Advantages error. She would like more than this but although Im sympathetic 
to what she went through  I dont  think I can reasonably ask Advantage to pay any more than 
this.
I understand Miss Bs strength of feeling  and frustration. But taking everything into account I 
think the investigators proposed resolution  of this complaint is fair and reasonable. And I 
dont see a compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
Ref: DRN40001433my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Advantage Insurance  Company Limited should, if 
it hasnt done  so already, pay Miss B £200  compensation.
Advantage must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss B 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Advantage considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Miss B how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4000143