K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, have  taken  responsibility  for the sale.  To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
Mrs H bought the policy in 1998, at the same time as taking out a store card.  It covered her 
card in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
The credit agreement had a section for PPI. It briefly explained what it was for, and then 
there was a box Mrs H could tick if she wanted to pay for it, or which could be left blank if 
she didnt want it. The box was ticked and Mrs H signed the agreement. So I think that Mrs H 
wouldve been aware she had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs H, so they didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Mrs H enough  information  to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information FICL gave Mrs H about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs H chose  to take out the policy, which implies she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations. While Mrs H did 
have sick pay, the PPI covered her more comprehensively and paid out on top, and she 
doesnt seem to have  had any other  cover in case she lost her job  which was a risk even if 
it was unlikely. So the policy would have been useful for Mrs H in case something went 
wrong. And so I dont  think better  information about  PPI was likely to have put her off taking 
out the cover.
Ref: DRN47580552my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4758055