K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the poor service he received Assurant General Insurance  Limited 
concerning his mobile phone insurance.
background
Mr M is unwell and has disabilities and relies on his phone. He said Assurant didnt take him 
seriously on a call and he collapsed. He said Assurant told him he needs to pay around £500 
or return his phone as it had doubly indemnified his claim and he doesn't feel that its fair. 
Mr M claimed for the loss of his phone,  but said the replacement was damaged  in transit.  He 
said the next replacement was faulty.  A further  replacement wasnt available  and Assurant 
offered a different model or a cash settlement of £500. Assurant said it told Mr M that if he 
wanted the cash settlement, his phone should  be returned before payment  would  be made. 
Assurant said Mr M said he wanted the cash settlement  and to keep the phone  until payment 
was made  as he couldnt be without a phone. Assurant  said it offered him a payment so he 
could buy a temporary phone, but Mr M said his health wouldnt allow him to do this. 
Assurant said Mr M then agreed to the collection of his phone,  but changed his mind,  but 
Assurant said the £500 payment had already been  processed.
Assurant said it sent Mr Ms phone back to him in error and not realising this it processed  a 
claim from him for accidental  damage. It said when it realised  it had double  indemnified  Mr 
M it asked for the return of the £500  cash settlement or the phone. Assurant  increased  
compensation to Mr M to £100 in light of a poor call by one of its operators.  Mr M declined  to 
return the £500 payment saying this had been made as compensation to him.
The investigator said Assurants offer of £75 compensation for delays was fair as some 
delay was due to Mr M. He said on a call Assurants call handler wouldnt put Mr M through  
to a manager and the call cut out. He said this may have been due to Mr Ms collapse but 
the call couldve been handled better and the £25 compensation paid by Assurant was fair.
The investigator said Assurant offered Mr M an alternative phone , or cash  settlement. He 
said it was reasonable for Mr M to use the phone returned in error. The investigator said Mr 
M couldnt  benefit  from the policy and Assurant should refund his premiums. He then 
reconsidered and said Assurant shouldnt have to return his premiums, but should pay him 
£100 further compensation for the stress and inconvenience its error caused  Mr M.
Mr M said he will return his broken phone to Assurant. He said he wants Assurant to stop 
chasing him for the £500 settlement  and he will accept further £100 compensation in 
settlement of his complaint. 
Assurant disagreed saying Mr M ought to have known that having the phone and payment 
meant an error had occurred. It said it was clear the payment wasnt compensation and this 
was clarified to Mr M. It said it hadnt  told him he couldnt use the insurance  and when the 
payment is returned  it will consider his claim for the loss of the phone. It disagreed  with the 
further £100 compensation saying that the compensation it had already paid was fair.
Ref: DRN43006372my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked closely  at Assurants handling 
of Mr Ms account to see if it has acted in accordance with the terms and conditions  and 
treated him fairly.
Mr M said it wasnt fair for him to be penalised  for Assurants mistake in returning  his phone  
to him. And he would like more compensation for the poor call with Assurants call handler.  I 
can see that Mr M accepted £25 compensation for the call as he should have been put 
through to a manager. Assurant also paid him £75 compensation for its delay. I can see that 
Mr M also caused some delay and I think the total of £100 compensation is fair for the call 
and delay.
I can see that Assurant acted in line with the terms and conditions  of Mr Ms account in 
offering Mr M an alternative phone (as his model was no longer available), or a cash 
settlement. Assurant made a mistake in paying the settlement to Mr M in lieu of a phone, 
and then returned his phone. I dont think its fair to Assurant for Mr M to benefit twice from 
the same  claim and so I think it was reasonable for it to require him to return  the phone, or 
the payment.
Mr M said he thought the £500 payment from Assurant was compensation. I can see that 
this payment was made as an alternative  to returning his phone and this was properly 
explained to Mr M at the time. Additionally Assurant paid Mr M £100 as compensation after 
discussing this with him, so I cant say there  was any reason for him to be confused about 
what the £500 was for.
Assurant pointed out that it had bypassed its normal warranty  procedures  because  of Mr Ms 
health conditions  and paid him £100 compensation. This is correct but the compensation 
paid doesnt cover the stress Mr M suffered through the mistaken return of his phone and 
what followed. Mr M has said on a number of occasions that because  of his health 
conditions his phone is his lifeline, and he was extremely stressed  at the prospect of being 
unable to contact  the outside  world and the choices he had to make. I agree with the 
investigator that Assurant  should pay Mr M further compensation of £100 for the stress and 
inconvenience that its mistake caused  him. 
Mr M said hes willing to return his phone  but wants his insurance  premiums returned. I can 
see that Mr M has benefitted from his policy and Assurant  has said that when he returns the 
settlement payment it will consider his latest claim for the loss of his phone. This indicates a 
continuity of cover for Mr M and so I dont  think it would be fair to require Assurant to cancel 
the policy and return Mr Ms premiums.
I sympathise with Mr M for the problems  he has suffered and I think  further compensation of 
£100 will properly reflect the stress  and inconvenience hes been caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld.  I require 
Assurant General Insurance Limited to pay Mr M further compensation of £100  for the stress 
and inconvenience  hes been caused.  
Ref: DRN43006373Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4300637