K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (trading Barclaycard) used a refund to reduce  
the outstanding balance  of his credit card thats  been transferred to a third party.  Mr R would 
like the refund to be paid to him. 
background
Mr R had a Barclaycard credit card that fell into arrears  and was defaulted. The outstanding 
balance was later transferred to a third party  business. 
In September  2018 Barclaycard wrote to Mr R and told him it wanted to refund £53.59  of 
interest and charges because of the way it had managed his account  while  he was in 
arrears. Barclaycard explained that the third party would be asked to reduce the amount 
Mr R owes by £53.59  as a result  of the refund. 
Mr R complained as he wanted  the refund to be paid directly to him. Barclaycard said that 
because the credit card debt hadnt been repaid  with the third party  it thought it was fair to 
use the refund to reduce  the amount Mr R owes. Mr R didnt agree so he referred his 
complaint to this service.  An adjudicator  looked  at whatd happened but didnt ask 
Barclaycard to take any further action because  they thought the decision to pay the refund  
towards the outstanding balance was reasonable. 
Mr R didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be appealed so its been  passed to me to 
make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by giving  a bit more information  about what the refund Barclaycard paid was 
in relation to. In Mr Rs recent response  to the adjudicator  hes said that the PPI refund 
should be paid directly to him. But this refund isnt related to any PPI Mr R mayve held. 
Barclaycard has refunded  £53.59  of charges  and interest applied to Mr Rs credit  card before 
it defaulted. Barclaycard  looked at the support  Mr R received while he was in financial 
difficulties and didnt  feel all the charges his account incurred were fair. The refund wasnt  in 
relation to any PPI. 
Barclaycard has told us that it paid the refund to the third party that took over Mr Rs credit  
card debt so the funds  could be used to reduce what he owes.  I understand why Mr R would 
prefer to receive the refund directly  but I dont think Barclaycards decision is unfair.  
Ultimately, Mr R will still receive the benefit  of the refund as he now owes  less so has less to 
repay. And I think its reasonable to note that the refund isnt for items Mr R has paid,  its in 
relation to additional charges and interest that were applied to the outstanding  balance. So 
the interest and charges in question  dont represent  money Mr R has spent but items that 
have been added to the account and increased the size of the balance  owed, because of 
how the account was managed. In light of that, I think the decision to use the refund to 
reduce the size of the debt is fair. 
Ref: DRN49069672Im sorry  to disappoint Mr R but, for the reasons  given above, Im satisfied Barclaycards 
decision to use the refund to reduce the amount he owes to the third party is reasonable. As 
a result,  Im not telling Barclaycard to do anything  else to resolve  this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject  my decision 
before 14 March 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4906967