K820x#14complaint
Mr O and Mrs Y complain  about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision not to pay their home  
insurance claim for storm damage in full. They also complain about  the customer  service 
they received.  
background
In January 2018 a garden wall at Mr O and Mrs Ys home was damaged during a storm. The 
damaged wall was around  1.2 metres high and divided one part of the garden from another. 
Attached to the wall was a trellis. It extended  above  the top of the wall by about 2.4 metres 
with established  foliage attached. 
Mr O and Mrs Y called AXA to make a claim under their home insurance. AXA declined the 
claim. It said that whilst  there  were  high winds at the time the damage was caused it didnt 
think they were the main  cause of the damage to the wall. It said the trellis had acted like a 
sail, pulling down the wall. It said the poorly installed trellis was twice the height of the wall 
and wouldve rocked and swayed in the breeze. It said the dominant cause of the damage 
wasnt the storm but the weight (due to the foliage) and height  of the trellis. 
Mr O and Mrs Y werent happy  with AXAs decision  so they complained. AXA agreed to 
appoint an assessor  to look at the damage. In the meantime it said it accepted  there were 
storm conditions around the time the damage  occurred so it offered to pay 50% of the cost of 
the repairs less the policy excess of £250. AXA had calculated that repairs would cost in the 
region of £525 - £600.
Mr O and Mrs Y got their own estimates  for the repairs and sent them  to AXA - they ranged 
between £1,600 - £1,950. Although AXA felt these estimates were high, it agreed to pay Mr 
O and Mrs Y half of their lowest  estimate of £1,600 less the policy excess (a total of £550).
Mr O and Mrs Y were  still unhappy. They thought AXA should pay their claim in full. Mrs Y 
had also raised  a separate complaint with AXA that she had been spoken  to inappropriately 
during the course of the settlement negotiations.  In its final response letter,  AXA paid 
compensation to Mrs Y of £75 in recognition of the issues she had experienced. It also said 
it had provided feedback  to the agent in question. In the same  letter,  AXA said it was happy 
it had made  the right decision  is respect  of Mr O and Mrs Ys claim. It said the claim was 
declined due to faulty workmanship  namely  the single block wall being insufficient to hold 
the height and weight  (due to the foliage) of the attached  trellis.  It said the recent storm had 
only highlighted this. 
It wasnt until after the final response letter was sent to Mr O and Mrs Y that AXAs appointed 
surveyor sent its report in. The report said: 
The damage [to the wall] was caused  by due [sic] to a combination of poor design and poor 
workmanshipthere is however, no damage  sustained that can be attributed  to storm.
Mr O and Mrs Y then complained to this service. Our investigator looked  into their complaint 
and recommended it was upheld.  He said the policy terms didnt include an exclusion for 
damage caused by poor workmanship so he didnt think that was a valid reason to decline 
the claim.  He said AXAs  other reason  that it was the trellis the caused the damage rather  
than the storm  wasnt fairly relied  on either. He said the wall was standing before the storm 
and would still be standing had it not occurred.
Ref: DRN46349812AXA disagreed with our investigator.  It said it had declined the claim because the cause of 
damage wasnt related  to any of the insured perils  (events) listed  in the policy.  It said it 
referenced faulty  workmanship but hadnt relied on any non-existent specific exclusion. It 
said it didnt think Mr O and Mrs Y had shown the damage was the result of a storm. It 
reiterated that the wall was of single brick construction with a trellis attached that was too tall 
for the wall size and method of construction  used. 
I issued my provisional decision on this case in June  2019. I made the following provisional  
findings: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr O and Mrs Y, I dont  think their complaint  should be upheld.  Ill explain 
why. 
This service has a long standing approach  to assessing complaints related to storm claims.  
When looking at such complaints we consider three main issues:
1.    were  there  storm conditions  on or around  the date the damage happened?
2.    is the damage  claimed for consistent  with damage a storm typically  causes?
3.    were  the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were likely to uphold  the complaint if the answer  to all three is yes. If the answer  to one of 
the questions  is no, were unlikely to uphold  the complaint.
I can see that there were  very high winds on the date the damage occurred. AXA has 
conceded that the weather on the date in question  amounted to storm conditions.  That 
means the answer to the first question is yes. 
Similarly, the answer to the second question  is also yes. It is very possible for winds of the 
strength recorded  on the date in question to blow a wall over.  
But it is the third question that poses the greatest difficulty to the success of Mr O and      
Mrs Ys claim and complaint. I dont think I can reasonably conclude   based on the 
available evidence that, the storm conditions that were undoubtedly present  on the date in 
question were the main  cause of damage. In reaching this conclusion  I cant reasonably 
ignore the comments  made by the surveyor that attended and assessed the damage. I think 
the construction of the wall  that it was only a single block wide played a part. I also think 
the height of the attached  trellis   in relation to the height of the wall - was a decisive factor  
in bringing the wall down. Ive seen  the photographs  of the damage and can see how high, 
and how much foliage is on, the trellis. I think that the single block wall was insufficient to 
hold the height and weight of the trellis in the high winds  present on the day in question. 
AXA has said that it declined Mr O and Mrs Ys claim because it thought the dominant cause 
of the damage  wasnt the storm (or any of the other  insured events in the policy). Based on 
the evidence available, Im minded to agree. I think that the storm winds  (as strong  as they 
were) highlighted an existing problem with the wall. Namely that the trellis as attached  was 
too high, and the foliage now too established,  for a low single block  wall. 
Im satisfied that AXA hasnt tried to rely on a faulty  workmanship/design exclusion that isnt 
actually in the policy terms. Im satisfied  it has referenced faulty workmanship in support of 
Ref: DRN46349813its view that it wasnt  the storm that was the dominant cause of the damage (rather  that the 
wall wasnt sufficiently strong  enough to withstand  high winds  with the additional forces 
exerted upon  it due to the attached trellis and foliage).
Despite holding this view, AXA has gone  on to pay Mr O and Mrs Y 50% of the cost they 
were quoted to repair the wall (less the policy excess).  That seems  fair to me in the 
circumstances.
Ive also thought about Mrs Ys complaint about the customer service  she received from 
AXA. I appreciate  that she and Mr O made a number of phone  calls to AXA in their attempt 
to get the claim  paid.  All insurance claims by their very nature come with a degree of stress 
and inconvenience  attached. Thats to be expected.  But where an insurer contributes  to this 
un-necessarily we would look to award  compensation.  Here,  AXA has apologised for the 
customer service  issues  Mrs Y experienced and paid her compensation of £75. I think thats 
fair in the circumstances and Im unlikely to have awarded any more than that if the 
complaint had come before me with no compensation having  been offered already. So I 
dont propose to make AXA pay Mrs Y anymore.
Both parties  replied to say that theyd received my provisional decision but had nothing  
further to add. Mr O and Mrs Y said they felt let down by AXA and had since moved their 
business elsewhere. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any substantive comment in response to my provisional 
decision, my provisional findings and provisional  decision remain unchanged.  For the 
reasons I gave in my provisional decision,  Im satisfied that this is a complaint that should 
not be upheld.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 August  2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4634981