K821x#15complaint
Mr C and Mrs C (Mr and Mrs C) say TenetConnect Limited (Tenet)  through  its 
associated company Tenet Platform Systems  did as follows:
Failed to inform them that two of the 14 funds in their portfolio  an income 
generating Tenet model portfolio  automatically reinvested income, instead of 
distributing it; this conflicted with the purpose of the portfolio  and their instruction to 
distribute income. [issue 1]
Unduly and excessively delayed remittances, to their cash  account, of some of the 
distributed income from their portfolios funds.  [issue 2]
Artificially  backdated the delayed distribution  transactions to the dates on which the 
distributions were paid from the funds, thereby essentially creating a fiction -based 
cash account. [issue 3]
Mr and Mrs C say Tenets conduct  (as summarised  above)  damaged their trust in it and led 
them to terminate its appointment and to liquidate the portfolio.
background
Issue 1  
On 2 April 2019 Mr and Mrs C discovered  that income from their holding  in the 
Fidelity Strategic Bond  (FSB) was reinvested  within it on 25 March  2019; on 1 May 
2019 they discovered that further  income  from the holding  was reinvested within it on 
25 April 2019.
On 24 April 2019 they discovered  that income  from their holding in the Dodge & Cox 
Worldwide US Stock fund (D&C)  was reinvested within it on 26 March 2019.
Issue 2  
On 20 March 2019 income from Mr and Mrs Cs holding in the M&G Property 
Portfolio I Inc fund was received in their account,  despite  the distribution having been 
credited to the client account on 28 February  2019. 
On 10 April 2019 they discovered  that income  purported to be from their holding  in 
the James Henderson  Preference  & Bonds I Income fund had been credited to their 
cash account on 9 April 2019, despite  the distribution having  taken  place 18 weeks  
earlier on 30 November 2018.
On 20 May 2019 income from their holdings in the Blackrock Continental European 
Income D fund, the JPM Emerging  Markets Income C fund and the JPM US Equity 
Income C fund was credited to their account, despite the distributions having all 
taken place three weeks earlier on 30 April 2019.
In an update to this service, after referral of their complaint, Mr and Mrs C said in the 
six months leading  to August 2019 around 25 distributions had been processed to 
their account, at least eight of these were delayed by three  or more weeks and the 
others were delayed by up to eight working  days.
Under issue 3, Mr and Mrs C mainly say the delayed transactions in issue  2 have not been 
properly explained  by Tenet  and they have had the effect of creating unreliable entries  in 
their cash  account. They  say their overall claim extends to compensation for loss that was 
crystalized in the course of them liquidating the portfolio  around  £3,000   because of 
Ref: DRN43151052Tenets breach  of their trust; and to compensation of £700 for the trouble and inconvenience  
the complaint  has caused them.
One of our investigators  addressed the complaint and concluded mainly as follows:
Tenet has upheld the complaint and that it offered £500 compensation to Mr and Mrs 
C for the level of service they received; they consider £700 to be more appropriate 
compensation in this respect; but the offer of £500 is a fair and reasonable basis 
upon which to compensate them  for the trouble  and upset they have been caused by 
the complaint.
Tenet concedes its wrongdoing in issue 1. The portfolio should not have included the 
FSB and D&C funds  given that they conflicted with Mr and Mrs Cs income-based 
instruction; they should be compensated for any loss incurred in this issue. 
The erroneous reinvestment in the FSB fund produced a beneficial  gain for them  
when the fund was liquidated  but the opposite was the case  for the D&C fund, where 
they received  less, upon liquidation of the reinvestment, than the income they would 
have received. Mr and Mrs C should  be compensated (with interest) for any net loss 
between the gain from the FSB fund and the loss from the D&C fund.
Tenet ought to have  managed the income distributions in issue  2 in a timely  manner; 
it should also have  notified Mr and Mrs C about  any delays that arose and about how 
the funds were to be deposited in the context of the delays;  such transparency  would 
have avoided confusion  on their part and allowed them to monitor  the payments in a 
more informed way.
Tenet has given some  explanations for the delays in issue 2 and in relation to issue 
3; it has also explained that the remittances were backdated in order to ensure Mr 
and Mrs C did not lose the benefit  of interest  (on the distributions) from the relevant 
dividend distribution  dates; this purpose was not unreasonable;  and the regulators 
rules under  CASS 7.13.36 allow firms  10 business  days,  from receipt, to distribute 
client money such as distributed  income.
Tenets offer of £500 adequately covers the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs 
C from issues 2 and 3; it would not be fair for it to increase this offer or to cover the 
portfolio loss (and refund  of charges), especially as Tenets wrongdoings are isolated 
and there is nothing to suggest  that the portfolio as a whole was unsuitable for them.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with this outcome. In the main, they considered  that the matters in 
issues 2 and 3 were still  without proper and complete explanations from Tenet; that the 
investigator did not give due weight to the fact that Tenet directly caused their loss of trust 
and confidence  (in Tenet) which led to their liquidation of the portfolio and the portfolio loss 
they have claimed  for; and that, in this context,  their claim has merit. The complaint was 
referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The merits of the complaint  issues  do not appear  to be in dispute. Overall,  Tenet  broadly 
accepts that relevant distributions were remitted late and that the income  reinvestments  
should not have taken  place. 
Tenet concedes that Mr and Mrs C were misinformed to believe they could elect  to draw 
income from the funds,  whereas neither fund allowed  such withdrawals and both applied 
Ref: DRN43151053automatic reinvestment  of income.  The investigator proposed a reasonable basis  for the 
redress of this issue, aimed at correcting  any net financial loss that Mr and Mrs C incurred 
from the matter.
Redress for issue 1 is inevitably defined  or influenced by liquidation  of the portfolio   as this 
produced a final value for the respective reinvestments. In this context, it is fair to 
compensate Mr and Mrs C for any net loss they incurred, from when the erroneous 
reinvestments were made and up to when the reinvested assets were liquidated. I endorse 
the netting approach proposed by the investigator. Redress for issue 1 should restore  Mr 
and Mrs C to the position  they would have held but for the erroneous reinvestments,  so this 
reasonably includes  the offsetting  of any gains made from the error against any loss made 
from the error  and then net compensation if the loss is greater than the gain.
I also uphold issues 2 and 3 for reasons  similar  to those given by the investigator. Again, 
Tenet essentially concedes both issues. I understand the points made by Mr C about why he 
considers Tenets  explanation of issues 2 and 3 to be inadequate.  He and Mrs C are indeed 
entitled to an explanation  and, on balance, I consider that Tenet has made a sincere attempt 
to provide one. I also note the explanations conveyed to them by the investigator, based  on 
information she obtained from Tenet  and a related hub service.  I do not suggest that Mr C 
should be satisfied  with these explanations. He and Mrs C are entitled  to their discretion in 
this respect. However, overall, on balance and having reviewed  what Tenet and the 
investigator have said,  I am also not persuaded that the explanations  have failed  to provide 
reasoning behind the events in issues 2 and 3.
Furthermore, and in terms of addressing the complaint, the pursuit that covers both issues  is 
ultimately akin to that in issue 1  that is, a pursuit for compensation. Issues 2 and 3 have 
been upheld  in Mr and Mrs Cs favour  and even  if they consider Tenets explanations for 
these issues to be inadequate the main  point is that the issues  have  been  upheld. In terms 
of compensation,  part of Tenets explanations sufficiently confirms that they were not denied 
interest that was (and should have  been)  due to them as a result  of the delayed remittances 
 so they need not be compensated in this respect.  There also appears  to be no missing 
remittances or outstanding payments  in dispute  so no compensation arises  in this respect. 
The remittances were  income payments, so there is no issue  about missed investment or 
reinvestment opportunities caused  by the delays. 
The surviving basis for compensation is the trouble  and upset caused to Mr and Mrs C by 
the issues (and by Tenets overall service in the complaint). Tenets offer of £500 is a fair 
and reasonable amount for this. It is broadly consistent with the sort of award (for trouble 
and upset)  this service  would consider  for comparable cases. It should also be noted that 
separate compensation applies to issue 1 and separate compensation could have applied to 
any financial  loss arising from issues 2 and 3 (if such loss existed), so this amount  which I 
order as an award below  is sufficient to address the matter  of Tenets service alone.
I have considered Mr Cs argument  about  loss of trust and confidence, termination of Tenets 
service and liquidation of the portfolio for this reason and the claim for loss arising from 
liquidation of the portfolio. I consider that the investigator gave due weight  to this argument 
and reasonably concluded  that in the absence of evidence that the portfolio was unsuitable 
for Mr and Mrs C the compensation they seek would  not be fair. I agree and I address an 
additional point  below. With regards to suitability,  I acknowledge that the FSB and D&C 
funds were essentially unsuitable, but they were two out of 14 funds in the portfolio and I 
have not seen evidence that the portfolio, overall, was unsuitable.
Ref: DRN43151054I do not suggest that it was unreasonable for Mr and Mrs C to conclude that the problems 
they discovered were  enough to break their trust and confidence  in Tenet. They  were  
entitled to draw that conclusion and I can understand  why they did so. However, their 
reaction cannot  wholly, and fairly, be blamed on Tenet. Even if they were  committed to their 
idea of terminating Tenets appointment and liquidating the portfolio they ought  reasonably  to 
have mitigated their position in the process.  I have not seen enough evidence that they did 
this. I have not seen  evidence  to establish, on balance, that the portfolio had to be liquidated 
in the manner that it was  at the times  and prices at which its underlying  fund holdings  were 
sold  and that the loss that arose could not have been avoided by their reasonable 
mitigation efforts.
Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded that Tenet  should  be responsible for the 
portfolio loss that has been claimed.
fair compensation 
In deciding what is fair compensation, my aim is to compensate  Mr and Mrs C for any net 
financial loss they incurred in issue 1; no financial loss arose from issues 2 and 3 so no 
compensation is due in this respect;  and my aim is also to compensate Mr and Mrs C for the 
trouble and upset  caused to them by the complaint as a whole and by the service they 
received from Tenet.
what Tenet  must do
Tenet must compensate Mr and Mrs C as follows:
Calculate the total amounts of income  from their holdings in the FSB and D&C funds 
that were reinvested  known  as FSB(a) and D&C(a).
Calculate the total numbers of shares  or units in each respective  fund that were 
purchased by each  total income  that was reinvested   known as FSB(b) and 
D&C(b).
Calculate how much  value was realised for FSB(b) and for D&C(b) respectively  when  
the funds were liquidated  known as FSB(c)  and D&C(c). 
If FSB(a) is less than FSB(c) the difference will be FSB profit; if FSB(a) is greater 
than FSB(c)  the difference will be FSB  loss; if D&C(a)  is less than D&C(c) the 
difference will be D&C profit ; and if D&C(a) is greater than D&C(c)  the difference  will 
be D&C loss.
Pay Mr and Mrs C the result of any applicable FSB loss amount and/or D&C loss 
amount minus any applicable  D&C  profit amount and/or  FSB profit  amount; the net 
result in this respect will be compensation that is due to Mr and Mrs C for issue  1.
Pay Mr and Mrs C interest on this compensation  at the rate of 8% simple per year 
from the first date of erroneous reinvestment  to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr and Mrs C £500 for the trouble and upset caused to them in this matter. 
Ref: DRN43151055my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint on the basis set out above.  
I order TenetConnect Limited to pay them compensation as I have also set out above  and to 
provide them  with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format.  Under  the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4315105