K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Mrs C have  complained about their home contents insurer Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc (RSA). Following a claim they made  to RSA after a burglary it avoided their 
cover (treated it as though  it never  existed),  and as a result  refused to deal with their claim.
background
Mr B and Mrs C took out cover with RSA via their financial advisor,  whom  Ill refer to as 
Ms M. Ms M used a proposal  form from one of RSAs agents  to gather details from Mr B and 
Mrs C. The form said that when selecting  contents cover the amount selected should  reflect 
what it would  cost to replace  all your belongings.  Mr B and Mrs C selected the lowest  value 
option available  £20,000. The form also asked for any items  over £2,500 to be specified,  
none were disclosed.
A month later Mr B and Mrs C were notified that their home had been burgled. RSA began 
assessing the claim and noted the low value of cover against some high quality missing 
goods. Plus an amount  of jewellery.  It had a jewellery specialist value the jewellery based  on 
photographs Mr B and Mrs C had provided and arranged to take a statement from Mr B.
Ms M was present to translate when the statement was taken  and read it back  to Mr B. Mr B 
signed the statement to say it was correct. 
The jewellery specialist  determined that based  on average values only,  as the photographs 
werent of great quality,  the jewellery was worth around £70,000. It noted that seven of the 
items valued totalled around £50,000  on their own.
RSA referred to its cover guidelines and noted  that it wouldnt offer cover for so much 
jewellery. It avoided  the policy.  Mr B and Mrs C felt this was unfair and complained.
Our investigator felt that RSA had acted fairly  in the circumstances. Correspondence was 
translated for Mr B and he made various objections to our findings.  He asked for an 
ombudsman to consider  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and with regret for any 
upset this causes  Mr B and Mrs C, Im not persuaded that RSA did anything wrong. Ill 
explain.
I know Mr B has disputed  the content of the statement  he signed but really the content at the 
heart of that dispute  the currency  and likely quality of the gold  isnt the main problem for 
Mr B here.
Mr B has acknowledged  that he was told by Ms M that he should get his jewellery valued. 
But he didnt  do so. Hes said he didnt think it would be worth as much as RSAs  specialist 
has said but he hasnt  produced a valuation of his own to challenge that either.  But crucially 
Mr B has also said that he was happy to be insured for £20,000 and thought that if he lost 
more than that in an insured event hed just accept settlement to the value of £20,000. 
Ref: DRN47988762Unfortunately for Mr B that isnt how insurance  works. And that means that as well as not 
checking what his jewellery was worth   which would have equated to taking reasonable 
care, he knowingly (albeit through  an honest and general lack of understanding), answered 
RSAs question incorrectly.  RSA was clear  it wanted to be told what  it would cost to 
replace all Mr B and Mrs Cs belongings  but they told it what value they were happy  to be 
covered for.
When a policyholder takes out cover they are required  to take reasonable care to answer 
clear questions that are asked by insurers to the best of their knowledge. If they dont take 
reasonable care and an incorrect answer is given, then an insurer is entitled to re-set 
things. In other words  it can do what it would  have done if the correct information had been 
given to it. Here RSA has satisfied me that if it had known about the true value   as 
determined by its specialist  it wouldnt have offered cover. Therefore, RSAs action of 
avoiding the policy is fair and reasonable.  
I fully accept that Mr B and Mrs C have  been  disadvantaged somewhat by not fully 
understanding the insurance process, and I know theyve relied a lot upon the translations 
they received  from Ms M. But I cant fairly penalise RSA in this respect by making it provide 
cover it otherwise wouldnt have offered. Not when  it has asked a clear  question and offered 
cover in good faith based on the answer it received.   
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4798876