K820x#14complaint
Miss B says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about five payday loans Uncle Buck provided to Miss B between 
July 2009 and March 2010. Miss Bs borrowing history  is as follows:
loan 
numberstart date loan amount 
(£)repayment 
(£)end date
1 24/07/2009 200 260 31/07/2009
2 04/08/2009 250 325 28/08/2009
3 28/08/2009 350 455 30/09/2009
4 30/09/2009 450 585 30/10/2009
5 03/03/2010 450 585 outstanding
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Bs complaint  and thought the loans  4 and 5 shouldnt have 
been lent. Uncle Buck disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
At the time of these  loans  Uncle Buck was regulated  by the Office  of Fair Trading (OFT).  
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Miss B could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN47773382Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Miss B could sustainably  repay  her loans   
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. 
Loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) guidance defined sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties  in particular without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness, out of 
income and/or savings.  And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to repay without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Theres limited  information available on this case as Uncle Buck  hasnt told this service  the 
checks it carried out before lending to Miss B. So Ive relied  on the limited  information 
available. And I think Ive been  able to fairly decide this case with the information I have.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that loans 1 to 3 should be upheld. Miss B hasnt disagreed with 
this and having looked at these loans I agree with the adjudicator. As these loans are no 
longer in dispute, my decision has focused  on loans 4 and 5 as they remain in dispute.
Loan 4 was Miss Bs fourth loan in about two months and it was for a higher amount than 
any of her previous  loans,  so I think before lending this loan, Uncle  Buck should have been 
looking to build a clear picture  of Miss Bs finances  before  lending  to her.
Uncle Buck  in its response  to the adjudication  says that the gap in lending between  loans 4 
and 5 was long enough to have broken the lending chain.
Ive thought carefully about this but I dont agree with this. Miss B had borrowed four loans 
for increasing amounts within about  two months  and by the time she was requesting loan 5, 
she was borrowing a similar amount to her previous loan, in those circumstances, it wasnt 
reasonable for Uncle Buck  to consider that Miss Bs circumstances had improved by the time 
she applied  for loan 5.
So before lending loan 5, Uncle Buck should  have been checking to understand Miss Bs 
circumstances including  verifying some of the information shed provided.
Had Uncle Buck carried  out proportionate checks before lending loans 4 and 5, its likely to 
have found that Miss B was borrowing  from other short term lenders. Miss B has provided 
copies of her bank statements, these show her living  costs including things  like transport,  
utilities and housing were  around £720.  Miss B also had more than £750  outstanding to 
other short term lenders.  Given that Miss Bs income  was around £1,489, she wasnt in a 
position to sustainably afford loan 4, so Uncle Buck shouldnt have lent it to her.
By loan 5, Miss B was still borrowing from other short term lenders and she had at least 
£937 outstanding to other short term lenders and the repayment of loan 5 was around £585, 
Miss B wasnt in a position to sustainably afford loan 5 and Uncle Buck  shouldnt  have lent to 
her.
Ref: DRN47773383As well as loan 5 being unaffordable for Miss B on a pounds and pence calculation,  I think 
by the time of loan 5, Miss B had formed a pattern of dependence on these loans that 
shouldve concerned Uncle Buck. I think Uncle Buck ought to have been aware that Miss B 
wasnt using these loans  as a short term solution to a temporary cash flow problem and so it 
shouldnt have continued lending.
Miss B has lost out because Uncle Buck lent her loans 4 and 5 when it shouldnt  have and 
Uncle Buck  needs  to put things right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss B paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 4 from Miss Bs credit  file;
re-work Miss Bs account for loan 5 by removing any interest and charges applied  
and treating all payments Miss B has made  as payments towards the principal. 
Uncle Buck says its sold the debt to a third party, so it should buy the debt back if it 
wishes to use the redress from loan 4 towards  the debt on loan 5. Most importantly 
Uncle Buck should ensure Miss B doesnt  pay more  than the principal amount of 
£450 towards loan 5;
any surplus after re-working the account  should be paid to Miss B with 8% interest 
but if theres still a balance outstanding  after, then Uncle  Buck should work with Miss 
B on a repayment plan;
after loan 5 has been repaid, Uncle Buck  should remove  all entries  about  this loan 
from Miss Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Miss B a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Bs complaint.  
Uncle Buck  Finance LLP should pay Miss B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2019.
Tola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4777338