K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complains  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) treated them  unfairly when Mr M 
went into a branch to ask about some cheques  hed recently paid in.
background
On 27 March 2019 Mr M paid in two cheques totalling £90 into his BoS bank account. He 
says he had a direct debit  for £60 due to go out the following day but this was declined as 
his account had insufficient funds.  Mr M says this isnt fair as his balance  had reflected  the 
additional £90 so he thought he had enough  money in the account. And as a result he had to 
pay an unnecessary  fee.
Mr M then went into a branch to find out what happened,  and says following a discussion 
with staff BoS told him it would be closing their account. He said it initially  gave him a 60 day 
account closure notice  but then closed it earlier than this. Mr and Mrs M say BoS decisions 
about the account and the cheque were  unreasonable.
BoS investigated and said Mr and Mrs Ms cheques were still waiting to be cleared  when the 
direct debit was due. So it said there were insufficient funds in the account and there wasnt 
a mistake. BoS also said that Mr Ms behaviour in branch caused concern  saying he had 
been verbally abusive and threatening to a number  of staff members.  As a result  it said the 
police had to be called, and it chose to close his account.
BoS initially gave  Mr and Mrs M an account closure  notice of 60 days. But it said Mr M then 
made a large  number  of unproductive calls to its branch. Around two weeks  later a branch  
manager reviewed  Mr Ms behaviour towards its staff overall  which it described as 
threatening  and it chose to close Mr and Mrs Ms account with immediate  effect.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint  to our service and one of our investigators  looked into 
things. She said the terms of the account say a cheque will take up to four working days  to 
clear so she didnt think  something had gone wrong.
The investigator considered Mr M had given a different account of what  happened in branch, 
but shed looked at all of the supporting evidence that suggested Mr M had made a large 
number of calls following the incident.  And she found that the police and security  had 
attended on the day in question, alongside  multiple staff members  raising  concerns.  So she 
felt it was more likely that BoS had acted in line with its abuse policy by calling the police  and 
closing the account. And she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the investigator so the complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
The terms of Mr and Mrs Ms account say it can take up to four working days for a cheque to 
clear into an account. This isnt uncommon  across most major banks and building  societies. 
Ref: DRN47000262In this case, its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs M paid in their cheques  the day before a 
direct debit was due to go out. So, put simply,  Mr and Mrs M didnt pay in their cheques with 
enough time for them to be cleared and then used for the direct  debit  the next day. So Im 
satisfied BoS didnt make a mistake in relation to Mr and Mrs Ms payment.
Mr Ms account terms says BoS can close an account in the event that a customer  has acted 
threateningly, abusively or violently towards staff.  And this says it can close  the account  
without notice on this basis. And for most other  reasons, it says it will give two months 
notice in writing. This means if BoS staff felt Mr Ms behaviour was threatening, abusive, or 
violent it was able to close the account without giving him or Mrs M notice.
Mr M said BoS descriptions  of the events  were inaccurate and its decision to close his 
account was unreasonable. Ive looked at the notes left by staff members alongside what  
hes told us. BoS staff members describe Mr Ms behaviour as threatening and verbally 
abusive. And from what Ive been given it seems both security  and police had to attend to 
remove Mr M from the branch. This suggests to me that the situation did escalate, and BoS 
staff members did feel threatened  and abused  even if this hadnt been Mr Ms intent.
Ive also seen internal  notes  that suggest  Mr M repeatedly called BoS after he was told the 
account was due to be closed. These say Mr M was told BoS wouldnt speak to him any 
further, yet it seems he still continued  to call many times. At this point a branch manager 
looked again at what happened  and made  the decision to close the account immediately. 
This decision was made based on Mr Ms behaviour as BoS felt hed been  threatening and 
abusive. So it wasnt required  to give Mr and Mrs M any notice under the policy terms. 
Overall, I think BoS decision  to close  the account  with immediate effect  was fair and 
reasonable and in line with its policy terms. And Im not asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 July 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4700026