K820x#14complaint
Ms B says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Ms B bought the policy  at the same time as taking out a credit card. This was during a 
meeting with BoS in 2001.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
BoS shouldve  made  Ms B aware  she had a choice  about taking out the policy. Ms B says 
the policy was added  without her consent.  BoS has provided a copy  of Ms Bs application 
form.
The form has a section  for the PPI which required applicant  to sign to opt for the PPI to be 
added to their account. On Ms Bs form, she has signed to have the policy  added. Ms B 
wouldve been given  the form to sign so I think if there was anything on the form she wasn't 
sure about  or hadn't agreed to she would've  had the opportunity to question  it at the time. 
 There isnt anything in what Ms B has told us that makes me think  BoS did anything 
differently here. 
So - on balance - I think its likely  Ms B chose to take the policy  although I can understand 
why she cant remember this. 
Ms B says BoS didnt recommend the policy her. BoS says it did. It says this because  it was 
sold during a meeting in branch, and branch sales at the time were  advised. So it had to 
check that the PPI was right for her. And based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time,  I think that it was. For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. 
Ms B says she would have received  sick pay and redundancy benefits from her employer. 
But the policy wouldve  paid out alongside  these  benefits. And it doesnt look like Ms B had 
any other means  such as savings  she could have used. So BoS wasnt wrong to 
recommend the policy to her. 
Ref: DRN44904652Its possible the information BoS gave  Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And for the 
reasons Ive explained above, it seems like it would have been useful for her if something  
went wrong. Ms B has said she was struggling  financially  at the time, but I havent  been 
given any substantial evidence to show that the policy was unaffordable  for her. So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Overall I dont think Ms B has lost out from anything  BoS might  have done wrong. So BoS 
doesnt need to refund everything Ms B paid for it. 
 
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms B because:  
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Ms B about that. Because BoS didnt tell Ms B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms B has said - including what  she have said about managing 
to keep up her repayments  when she was made  unemployed in 2005. But this point doesnt  
change my decision for the reasons  Ive explained  above. 
But Ms B may be entitled to make  a retrospective claim. If shed like to do this, she should 
get in touch with BoS to see if she can start a claim.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Ms B any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.  
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4490465