K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Tesco Personal Finance  PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr L bought the policy  in 2001 at the same time as taking out a credit  card through  the post. 
Tesco offered to pay back the undisclosed  commission and profit share  that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI was mis-sold,  and thought  Tescos  offer in respect  of the 
commission and profit share was fair. 
Mr L disagreed, so the complaint has been  passed to me. In particular, Mr L pointed to the 
postal application  form, which  said of the PPI: We strongly recommend you take out this 
cover.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Tesco made Mr L aware  that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it. This is because he ticked a box on the application form to indicate he 
wanted it.
 Tesco didnt technically recommend the PPI to Mr L  by which  I mean Tesco didnt  
consider his personal circumstances   so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But even if it had, from what  I know of his circumstances at the time, I think the PPI 
was right for him. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay, leaving that 
available for other things. It also covered  unemployment. Mr L had no other way to 
keep up with his credit card payments if hed been unable to work. And he wasnt 
affected by the main  exclusions  or limits  on cover. 
 Its possible the information Tesco gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
wouldve put him off taking out the cover.  
 Which means Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
Ref: DRN46022672But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about  that. Because  Tesco didnt tell Mr L, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has offered to pay back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr Ls has said, including what hes said about  the wording on 
the application form. But these points dont  change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Tesco has to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should  also pay back to Mr L any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr L the difference  between 
what Mr L owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share  it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco  should also pay Mr L 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off their credit card at some point.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mr L any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4602267