K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs W bought the policy in 2000  at the same  time as taking out a loan. Nationwide 
isnt sure how it sold the loan and PPI to Mr and Mrs W, but they say they applied  for the 
loan and PPI policy in branch.
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £543.33  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  of £141.03 over the term of the loan. The 
loan was repayable over a 48-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan. The 
monthly cost of the PPI was £14.07, and the total loan and PPI repayment was £119.44.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr W for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr and Mrs Ws monthly loan repayment  
for up the remaining term or when Mr W returned to work in the event of a successful 
disability claim and 12 months the event of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr W was employed as a laundry  service representative. He has told us he was 
entitled to some redundancy pay and they didnt have any other means of repaying their loan 
should Mr W be unable to work.  Mr W has said he had an adenoidectomy in 1958. 
Nationwide has provided account information  which shows that the loan account closed in 
2004
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ws representative  says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ws representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr and Mrs W about  the poor value;  
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
Ref: DRN49883752The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs W 
and the impact they would  have had on their chances of making a claim; 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN49883753The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for Mr and 
Mrs W given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate  and timely  
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN49883754-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs W, I must then go on to consider  whether  and to what  extent  Mr and Mrs W 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs W 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs W know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide a copy of the application form that was completed at 
the time Mr and Mrs W took out the loan and PPI. This is unfortunate but isnt surprising 
given how long ago the sale took place, and businesses arent expected to keep records 
indefinitely. Nationwide  has provided  a sample  application form which it says is similar, if not 
the same  as the one that would have been completed when Mr and Mrs W were sold the 
loan and PPI. Looking at this sample I can see there are sections which  prompt the adviser  
to discuss the PPI and provide details of the cover on offer.  So I think its likely  there  was 
some discussion  with Mr and Mrs W about the policy. 
Following the application  process Mr and Mrs W were given a credit  agreement.  Nationwide  
has provided a copy  of the agreement they were  given and within this I can see there is a 
separate section  detailing  the cost of the Optional Credit  Insurance. I wouldve expected  Mr 
and Mrs W to read over this agreement and raise any questions they had at the time before 
signing it.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs W knew the policy was 
optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says that advice wasnt provided during  this sale.  Mr and Mrs W havent said 
whether they were  given advice or not. Based on what Nationwide  has said and what we 
know in general  about how it sold PPI at the time I dont think  it did give Mr and Mrs W 
advice.
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Instead, it had to give 
them sufficient, appropriate and timely  information  to enable Mr and Mrs W to make  an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W were  given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr W was unable to work  through accident,  sickness and unemployment.) I have reached 
this conclusion because  the likely application form and the credit agreement they received 
refers to the cover and that it was being added to the loan.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs W would  have taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy  was. And I think 
Ref: DRN49883755Mr and Mrs W knew that the single premium being  added to the loan was £543.33, the 
interest added  to the premium was £141.03,  the total cost was £675.36 and the monthly cost 
was £14.07 as this information was, in my view, sufficiently clear on the loan agreement  Mr 
and Mrs W signed.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit - or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr 
and Mrs W agreed  to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ws. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ws representative  considers  to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs W has suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that [Business] ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs W? To what extent  
did Mr and Mrs W suffer  loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs W. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr 
and Mrs W suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether or 
not Mr and Mrs W would have still taken  out the policy, had Nationwide  done  things properly. 
Mr and Mrs W say they would  not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN49883756As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs W had to weigh up in their own minds  the cost 
of the policy  against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if they didnt insure 
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs W chose  to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs W thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs W have  suffered  any loss 
or detriment.  
As Ive already  said, the information Mr and Mrs W were given about the cost was clear. But 
the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs W would get back  in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ws 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their loan payments)  were significantly different to what  the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs W thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or disease  that Mr W knew 
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy.  Or any 
medical condition  or disease which Mr W received treatment or advice  for in the 12 
months before the start date and which recurs within 12 months of the start date of 
the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr W be unable to 
do his own job or any work.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs W pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs W from 
taking out the policy.  
The evidence about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.  Mr W was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr W says he had a medical  
condition when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had he 
needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think better information about  this 
exclusion would have  put them off agreeing to it. I say this the medical condition Mr W has 
referred to was dealt  with by surgery many years before the sale.  Mr W hasnt told us of any 
ongoing issues he had that was related to this condition. And based on what  he has told us, 
he doesnt seem to have  had any extended  periods of time of work due to his condition.  
Ref: DRN49883757And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs W would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr W needed to be totally  unable  to do his normal job and any 
other work. I dont think this is likely  to be too different  to what  they would have expected to 
make a claim. After  all, the loan agreement says Mr W is insured for disability,  
unemployment and life. So it seems unlikely they would have thought theyd been able to 
make a successful claim if Mr W was still working, whether that be in his job or any other job. 
Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Mr and Mrs W cancelled  the policy 
early, there is nothing to suggest (at the time) that Mr and Mrs W had plans to repay  the loan 
early. The purpose of the loan was not debt consolidation or anything  else which might 
suggest a need to repay the loan early, or that this was likely to happen.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs W would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  were  Mr W made redundant,  or unable to work  through accident 
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs W would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Ws circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr 
and Mrs W found themselves in as result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
Ref: DRN49883758to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs W in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs W compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ws representative says a court might take 
if it were to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. But this 
doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs W in a better position than if everything  had happened  as 
it should have  done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 January  2021.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4988375