K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Home Retail  Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos Card  
(Argos), lost her payment and took too long to find it. 
background
Miss D has an Argos Card and paid the full balance in March  2018. But she wrote her name  
as the reference and didnt include her Argos account number. So Argos couldnt  allocate 
the payment as they didnt know which account to allocate it to. When  Miss D complained to 
Argos they refunded  the interest  and the late payment  charge  that had been added. But 
some confusion, about how the payment had been  made, led to delays in Argos returning 
the money to Miss Ds bank account and Miss D found herself  having  to chase progress with 
Argos. 
Argos apologised for the delay  in returning Miss Ds payment to her bank account  and 
explained that this was because Miss Ds payment had been  incorrectly  allocated  as a debit 
card payment and not a bank transfer. They offered £20 to compensate  Miss D for the 
distress and inconvenience this had caused. They explained that as the payment hadnt  
been accompanied by the account  reference they couldnt pay it in. So they didnt think  they 
could be held responsible for this.
Miss D didnt think £20 was sufficient compensation. She said shed  waited almost  20 days  
for the money to be returned and if she hadnt  pursued Argos  she didnt think  anything 
wouldve happened. She was also disappointed that theyd not credited her payment of the 
full balance when  it was made  and she explained that shed made  many  payments to them 
before via the same bank transfer and without the payment being rejected.
She referred  her complaint to this service and our investigator took a look at the evidence. 
She didnt  think Argos could be held responsible for the payment  not being  credited to 
Miss Ds account as it didnt have  the correct account reference on it and the investigator 
understood it would  be difficult for Argos to allocate it correctly.  She thought it was right that 
they compensated Miss D for the delay in returning her payment but she was persuaded that 
£20 was sufficient  compensation in the circumstances.
But Miss D was still dissatisfied. She wasnt able to provide evidence that shed made  
previous payments using the same  reference  so she accepted the investigators view on 
Argoss inability to allocate her payment. But she still thought  £20 was scant compensation 
for the inconvenience  shed suffered chasing  the repatriation  of her funds. She therefore 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im persuaded that Argos have done enough here and whilst I know  it will disappoint Miss D 
I dont think it would  be reasonable to ask them to take any further  action. Please let me 
explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN44766772Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the allocation  of the payment
As Argos are likely to have customers with the same surname and initial as Miss D its 
clearly not possible  for them to accurately  allocate  credits to an account without the account 
number. As Miss D didnt  provide this it would be unreasonable to suggest Argos  has done 
anything wrong  here.
Its their process to return any payments lost in this fashion to the customers  bank account  
and ask them to pay again using the correct account reference. I can see that was done in 
this case. Argos were following their internal procedures here, theyre  not unusual 
procedures in such circumstances and I dont think they were  wrong  to do so, although I do 
understand that Miss D would have been  a little frustrated not to have had the payment 
redirected to her Argos account,  as she had originally intended.
the delay in repatriating Miss Ds money
This must have been frustrating for Miss D; especially  as she had to chase  Argos for 
progress. But Ive not seen evidence that Miss D was out of pocket as a result: Argos  has 
returned the late payment charge and interest  and the compensation theyve paid is, to my 
mind, reasonable in the circumstances.
So whilst I can understand that this issue has been  troublesome for Miss D, I think Argos  
has been fair in the way theyve responded and I wont be asking them to take any further 
action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4476677