K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  that she was mis-sold  a 123 Account in November 2016  by 
Santander UK Plc (Santander). She says that she was told that she needed to upgrade to 
this account in order to get an overdraft facility.
Prior to this complaint being  brought  to this service Santander refunded  eight account fees 
totalling £40 as a gesture of good  will.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  into this complaint  already  and they did not think that the account 
was mis-sold. Miss B did not agree with this and asked for the complaint to be reviewed.
This complaint will only be looking at the sale of the 123 Account. I can see that, since  
this complaint was first raised, Miss B has mentioned  issues downgrading the account. If 
Miss B is still concerned about this, she would have to in the first instance raise this 
directly with Santander.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. Ive used this approach  to decide 
what to do about  Miss Bs complaint. 
After considering everything available to me, I dont think Santander  mis-sold the 123 
Account. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I will consider whether Miss B was given a fair choice in taking out the account. Miss 
B had held a free account with Santander  prior to the upgrade  and therefore I think  that she 
wouldve been aware that Santander did free accounts and that they were  an option for her.
I note that Miss B has said that she thought that she had to have the account to get an 
overdraft and it does  appear that she tried to apply  for an overdraft on the same day as she 
upgraded her account but was not successful. But importantly the upgrade was carried  out 
online without the input of Santander  staff and therefore I cant  say that it was Santander that 
mis-led her into thinking she needed  a 123 Account in order to get an overdraft. In addition, 
given that Miss B did not actually  get an overdraft, I wouldve expected her to downgrade if 
that was the reason that she took out the account.  So overall, I cant say that Santander did 
not give Miss B a fair choice into taking out the account.
As this account was taken out online, I am satisfied that Santander did not make a personal 
recommendation to Miss B. So, Santander  did not have to make sure that the account  was 
right for her. I did though  have to give Miss B the information to allow her to make her own 
choice as to whether the account  was right for her. I think that it is more  likely than not that 
the main benefits  wouldve been  highlighted to her during  her application.  After  all, 
Santander wouldve  wanted the account to seem attractive. I also cant see anything  specific  
that Miss B was not told that I think wouldve altered her decision to take out the account.
Ref: DRN43187502I note Miss Bs comments  that Santander shouldve realised that the account was not 
suitable for her and told her to downgrade the account after it was sold to her. But I cant  see 
that Miss B told Santander that she had mental health issues,  so I dont think  that Santander 
needed to treat her differently. Ultimately it was up to Miss B to downgrade her account  if 
she no longer wanted  or needed  it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4318750