K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr H says Canada  Square Operations Limited trading as Egg mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr H bought a PPI policy whilst he was applying for his credit card on line.
The policy covered him if he was off work  because  of an accident, illness or if he lost his job. 
It cost around £0.59 per £100 of the outstanding balance on his credit card and would  have 
paid out 10% of that balance for up to 12 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr H disagreed with this view. 
He said it was never made clear the policy  was optional and the information about the costs 
wasnt clear.  He asked that his complaint  be referred to an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Although I realise Mr H will be disappointed with my 
decision I will explain  why.
Mr H says that it wasnt made clear that the policy  was optional. And he says he thought he 
had to take it as a requirement to get the card. Egg has sent me examples  of screenshots  
Mr H would have seen  while he was applying for his credit card and the PPI. Mr H would 
have had to select  the PPI by marking a box yes to say he wanted it. He could  have marked 
the box no if he didnt  want  it. I also think he likely  received  a welcome letter and I can see 
the PPI appeared on Mr Hs credit card statements  so if he didnt want  it or didnt know  he 
had it he could have  questioned it with Egg at any time.  I havent  seen he did so.
Overall, I think Egg made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this now after so many years.
As the PPI was taken out via the internet, I dont think its likely Egg recommended  the PPI to 
Mr H. That meant it didnt  have to check if it was suitable for his circumstances. But it did 
have to make sure Mr H got the information  he needed so he could make  an informed 
decision about whether it was right for him.
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. This 
wasnt an advised sale so it was for Mr H to decide if he wanted  the PPI taking into account  
his existing means. But I have thought about  his circumstances. Mr H says he was entitled  to 
three months sick pay from his employer.  This policy would have paid out for up to 12 
months - so it would have  paid out in addition to and likely for longer than Mr Hs full sick pay 
lasted. 
Ref: DRN43306802He also says he would have been able to rely on help from family and friends  if he fell into 
difficulty. But such type of help isnt always guaranteed, particularly for long periods as 
circumstances can change. So I still think the policy could have been useful if Mr H lost his 
job or couldnt work through  accident and sickness.
And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he would 
have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example, he 
didnt have any pre-existing  medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable for him. So I dont think  better  information about  the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has told me, including that he had PPI on a loan which 
was repaid. But we look at each  case individually and take each case  on its own merits, so 
the considerations applicable to one case may not apply to another.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4330680