K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policies 
taken out in 1995 in connection with two credit cards. Mr B says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC 
mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Barclays made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this. I note that the 
policies were  sold the year after the credit cards had been taken out and so its likely 
that Mr B would have  known he didnt have to take PPI to get the credit.
 Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  
and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
 Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
 Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
 Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should  have told Mr B about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair. 
 To put that right,  Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what he has said about his existing 
repayment provisions.  But these points  dont change my decision. The policies would  have 
paid out in addition to Mr Bs sick pay and for a much longer period of time.  They  would also 
have paid out if he lost his job.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
Ref: DRN48114652But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4811465