K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr G says Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr Gs signed credit card application has a tick in the box to request PPI. Mr G didnt 
have to tick this box if he didnt want the cover. So I think  BOS  made  it clear  Mr G didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out.
BOS didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr G got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
The information BOS  gave Mr G about  the PPI might not have been clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what  Ive seen of Mr Gs circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. And as Mr G says he wasnt entitled to any sick pay and had no other 
means of making his card payments, I think the policy wouldve proved useful if he had 
to stop working suddenly. So I dont  think better  information about the PPI would have 
put him off taking out the cover  in the first place. 
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything  
Mr G paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Mr G back  some  of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
I understand BOS  has already paid this to Mr G. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4162141