K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with FirstRand Bank  
Limited, trading  as MotoNovo  Finance  (MotoNovo), has not been of satisfactory  quality.
background
I provided my provisional decision  in May 2020. In that decision I explained that I wasnt  
expecting to uphold  Mr Ms complaint. An excerpt from that decision is attached  below:
Mr M took receipt of a used car in March 2016.  He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo. At the point  of supply the car was about five years old and had 
already completed  58,000.
In December 2018 he told MotoNovo that the car had been recalled by the manufacturer to 
check whether the chassis was suffering  from corrosion problems. The car failed that 
inspection and Mr M says the manufacturer advised  him that it would need  to be taken  to 
Spain to have  the chassis repaired. Mr M was told this would  take a couple of months.
He therefore complained  to MotoNovo. He said the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality and he 
wanted them  to replace  it. But MotoNovo thought the liability  for the problem hadnt been 
established and it was for the manufacturer to keep  Mr M mobile whilst they assessed the 
vehicle. So they didnt think they needed to take any action.
Mr M therefore referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator provided his 
opinion. He understood that the issues  had been identified two and a half years  after Mr M 
took receipt of the car, but as this was a manufacturers recall  he thought it was most likely 
they were present or developing  at the point of supply;  when  MotoNovo were  responsible  for 
the cars  quality. He explained that when a fault was identified,  that was present at the point 
of supply, the business were entitled to an opportunity to repair  the car. But he noted that in 
this case the repair  may take several months  to complete and he didnt think that was 
reasonable. He therefore suggested  that MotoNovo allow Mr M to reject the car and cancel 
his finance agreement with them. He didnt  think  there  should  be a refund of any of the 
finance instalments  as he noted Mr M had been able to drive  the car unhindered, but he did 
think Mr M had been inconvenienced by the problems hed experienced and, in the 
circumstances he thought MotoNovo should  pay him £200 in compensation.
Mr M didnt  agree with the adjudicators view. He wanted MotoNovo to provide him with a 
replacement car and to compensate him for the stress hed experienced and refund  the 
money paid out. MotoNovo didnt agree either. So the complaint was referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M but I dont currently agree with the adjudicators  view and Im 
not expecting  to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN40613862Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr M. The car here 
was around five years old and had travelled 58,000  miles.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask MotoNovo to put this right. 
It was more than two years before Mr M complained to MotoNovo about the quality of his 
car. But he was responding to problems with a recall from the manufacturers who said that 
some of their cars may have a manufacturing  fault that meant they were  subject to 
premature chassis rusting.  Mr M says that when  they inspected  his car they found that 
problem affected  his vehicle and they said theyd have to send it abroad for repair.  
So, if I had sufficient evidence that Mr Ms car had been the subject of a manufacturing  recall  
and had failed  the inspection then I may be persuaded there was a fault developing  with his 
car at the point  it was supplied to Mr M, even though  it was two years ago. 
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) allows a business one opportunity to repair a fault that is 
present at the point of supply. But it says it must  do so within a reasonable time and 
without significant  inconvenience to the consumer.
Mr M says he is being asked to wait for several months to have that repair  completed  and I 
dont think thats  a reasonable period of time. So, I think, if it was demonstrated that there 
was a fault with the car at the point of supply and if it was demonstrated that the car has to 
go abroad to be repaired,  MotoNovo should allow  Mr M to reject the car rather  than being 
allowed to repair it.
However, I dont think I currently have enough  information to support that action. Ive seen 
pictures Mr M sent of significant damage  to a vehicles chassis. Ive asked him to 
demonstrate that the vehicle in the pictures is his but Ive not been provided  with any 
evidence of that, such as a comment  from the dealership who completed the inspection; an 
independent engineers report or even an email  trail that shows  the photographs were  
provided by a dealership and related to his car. In the absence of that information I dont 
think it would  be fair to suggest  the damage  in the photographs is damage to Mr Ms car. 
Ref: DRN40613863I also asked Mr M for evidence to confirm  the car required work to be completed abroad  but I 
havent been provided with any. So, in those  circumstances, I dont  think its possible to 
suggest that, even  if there was damage to the car in line with the manufacturers  recall, a 
repair wouldnt be possible in the UK in a reasonable time frame.
Mr M also asked  us to consider the costs hed incurred  for repairs  to his car. He suggested  
these equated  to about £1,000. I asked for evidence of these repairs  but Ive not, as yet, 
been provided with any.
In those circumstances I dont think it would be reasonable for me to suggest there is 
evidence that there  was a fault with this car that was developing at the point of supply and is 
MotoNovos responsibility  to rectify.  And I dont think theres sufficient evidence that Mr M 
has incurred repair costs  as a result of problems that were  present, or developing, when he 
took control of the car.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
MotoNovo agreed  with my provisional  decision  but Mr M didnt.
He said thered been many complaints about these issues and the problem had meant  that 
the car was no longer driveable. He explained  that the problem had caused his family 
hardship and he said, amongst  other  things, that he shouldnt be asked to pay for a vehicle 
he was no longer able to drive.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained  that I was lacking evidence  that the photographs 
provided were of Mr Ms car. I also explained that Id need evidence  to demonstrate the car 
needed to be repaired abroad and evidence  of the expenses Mr M had incurred.
But Ive not been provided with any of that evidence, so Ive not had sufficient information to 
change my initial opinion.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4061386