K822xcomplaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the settlement  AXA Insurance UK Plc (Axa) offered under her home
insurance property  following a claim she made for an escape  of water. Mrs B is represented
by her son, who Ill call Mr B.
background 
I issued my provisional decision on 28 March 2019,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms 
part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained why I was not intending to 
uphold Mrs Bs complaint  against Axa. 
I invited all parties to let me have any further comments before I reached  a final decision.  
Mr B, representing Mrs B responded, but Axa did not. 
Mr B said I failed  to consider the issues he raised about the skirting board.  He also doesnt  
feel its fair that his mother  is responsible for bearing  the cost of replacing it when it was 
damaged by Axas contractor. 
He also feels that my findings about  the invoice supplied  from their plumber are unfair. Mr B 
says they acted in a timely manner in arranging for a plumber to come  out to find the source 
of the leak, but theyre out of pocket for doing  so. 
And finally, Mr B feels it was unfair for me to make  the finding  that responsibility  for finding a 
contractor to carry out the repairs had shifted to Mrs B. Hes especially unhappy with this 
because its been  accepted by all involved that the first contractor appointed by Axa caused 
some of the damage  to Mrs Bs property.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  However, having done so, Im not 
upholding Mrs Bs complaint for the reasons I reached in my provisional decision  and for 
those Ive set out below.  
the plumbers report
I can appreciate Mr Bs point that he and Mrs B acted  quickly  to arrange  for the leak to be 
repaired, with the aim of preventing more damage than might have otherwise have occurred. 
However, this doesnt take away from the fact that, when looking at the invoice, there are 
inconsistencies between  how much time the plumber spent at the property against how 
much was charged for the works he said were carried out. Axa told us, during the course of 
the investigation, it would consider refunding these costs if another invoice was presented. 
Given the circumstances, I think this is a fair approach. 
the skirting board and how Axa settled the claim
Before I reached my provisional decision,  I carefully considered all the available information 
on the file. This included  reviewed several scopes  of works detailing  a number of repairs that 
needed to be completed.  I didnt feel it was necessary for me to make a finding  on each and 
every repair detailed; instead I focussed on the issues  at the heart  of the dispute.
Ref: DRN42394492From what  I had seen, Axa was willing to complete any repairs  directly caused  by the leak 
itself, including  the damage to the skirting  board  caused by the leak and contractor, which  is 
in line with the policy terms. However, I dont agree Axa need to meet the costs of boxing  in 
the pipes for the reasons  I gave in my provisional decision.
I dont agree that Axa are placing emphasis on Mrs B to carry out repairs. My role here is to 
decide if I think Axa acted  fairly  in taking  the steps it did to settle the claim.  It was clear to me 
that Axa took a number  to steps  to try and find a contractor to complete the works  at Mrs Bs 
home. But when  it became  apparent  that this wasnt possible, they arranged  for a cash 
settlement. I remain of the opinion this was a reasonable step for Axa to have taken, given 
how long the matter had been  unresolved  for. It puts Mrs B in the position of being able to 
approach the contractors  she favoured, but had been unable to complete the works at that 
time, if she still wishes to do so. 
While I realise  this isnt likely  to be the answer Mrs B, on behalf  of his mother is hoping for, I 
dont intend to direct Axa to take any further  actions in respect of settling their claim for the 
reasons given here and in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
extract decision dated 28 March 2019
Ref: DRN42394493complaint
Mrs B is unhappy  with the settlement AXA Insurance UK Plc (Axa) offered under her home
insurance property  following a claim  she made for an escape of water. Mrs B is represented
by her son, who Ill call Mr B.
background
A pipe leaked in Mrs Bs living  room  which  caused some  damage to the floor and wall. Axa
sent a loss adjuster  out to arrange for a scope of works to be completed. These identified
that the living  room floor needed to be replaced, and some  other remedial  works needed  to
be completed.
After the initial scope of works was broadly agreed, a contractor was instructed. When the
contractor was replacing the flooring in the living room, they damaged some tiles on the
adjacent kitchen  floor.  Understandably, Mr B was very unhappy  with this. He also said the
living room floor hadnt  been  fitted to an acceptable standard. He asked Axa send the loss
adjuster out again to inspect the works  that had been done, and agree how things would  be
put right.
Mr B also said part of the skirting board  in the living room had been removed by the original
contractor when they were  carrying out the works  to the floor. He said the pipes had needed
to be rerouted to prevent any future leaks. Therefore, Mr B said he also thought the scope of
works needed  to be amended to arrange for the pipes to be boxed in. He also thought the
pillar in the living room needed to be re-rendered,  and this should also be included in the
scope of works.
The loss adjuster  visited  the property again and agreed that the flooring in the living room
hadnt been fitted to an acceptable standard. She also said works needed  to be carried out
to repair the damaged kitchen floor. But they didnt  agree that they needed  to pay for the
pipes to be boxed in and the pillar  theyd been routed round to be rendered because  it was
Mr B who had decided to reroute the pipes. Therefore Axa considered these  were private
works and said it wouldnt cover the cost of this. Mr B disagreed with this, but asked  for a
different contractor to come  and repair the living room and kitchen floors.
There was a significant amount of discussion over the next few months about the best way
forward. Mr B was initially keen for Axa to send a particular contractor to complete the works
but, for a number  of reasons, Axa said this couldnt happen.  Later,  either a contractor wasnt
available to complete all the works, or the works couldnt be completed at a time that was
convenient for Mrs B and her family.
Almost a year after the original leak, Axa sent Mrs B a cheque  for the cost of the scope of
works, excluding VAT.  It said it would  consider any request for VAT to be reimbursed if
presented with an invoice, but Mrs B (or Mr B on her behalf) would  need to arrange  the work.
Axa also said that it would  consider reimbursing any costs incurred  to trace and access  the
original source of the leak. But the invoice  originally provided was not was not sufficiently
detailed, and did not provide for the repair of the pipe. However, Axa acknowledged there
had been some trouble  and upset experienced by Mrs B during the course  of the claim, and
it made a compensation payment of £400 in recognition  of this.
Mr B brought  Mrs Bs complaint  to us. He wasnt happy  with Axas  decision not to include the
boxing in of the pipes  and other remedial works in the scope of works. And he didnt think it
was fair that Axa had decided to cash settle the works  rather  than finding  a contractor. He
said hed been able to find contractors locally  so didnt agree with Axas comments  they
hadnt been able to source contractors.
Ref: DRN42394494An investigator considered  what both sides  had said and, having thought carefully about this,
they thought the offer made by Axa to settle the claim,  and the compensation paid
represented a fair outcome.  Mr B didnt agree, and this matter has been passed to me to
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There have been some changes since our investigator initially  investigated this matter. So
Im setting out what I think is a fair and reasonable  conclusion. There  have been significant
submissions made by both sides and, while  Ive carefully  considered  all of these, Im only
focusing on what I consider  to be the key issues that need to be decided.
rerouting the pipes and rendering the pillar
Mr B has told us the pipes were rerouted on advice from his plumber  to prevent further
leaks. These were preventative works to prevent any further leaks. I can understand why
Mr B was keen  for this to happen, he wanted to reduce the potential risk of any future leaks.
Under the policy in place, Axa was responsible for putting right any damage directly caused
by the leak. The policy terms say:
What your policy covers:
Sudden and unexpected water leaking  from or freezing  in any washing machine,
dishwasher, fridge, freezer or fixed  domestic  water,  drainage  or heating installation.
We will also pay up to the limit for any one claim for necessary and reasonable costs
that you incur in tracing and accessing the source of the damage  to the home. This
includes reinstating  any wall, floor, ceiling,  drive, fence or path removed or damaged
during the search
But the rerouting of the pipes was not something that was caused by the leak.  Mr B says
they decided this action  to prevent any further potential problems in Mrs Bs home  based on
the advice of their plumber. I can understand why they were keen to take this action.
However, I also agree with Axas view this was a set or private  works and was not something
is Axa is liable for based on the above clause in the policy. Therefore, I dont intend to direct
it to meet any further costs in relation to this issue. Axa has offered, as part of its cash
settlement, to pay for the repairs to the skirting board.
trace and access
Mr B asked his plumber to identify the source of the leak. He provided Axa with an invoice
from his plumber.  Axa didnt  consider this invoice  because it said there were inconsistencies
in it. Ive looked at the invoice and agree with Axas position here. The invoice claims for
more hours of labour  than the plumber  said he was there for, but with no explanation as to
why the cost was higher.  Axa has said will consider a claim for this cost if presented with
another invoice. I think this is reasonable and dont intend to direct it to do anything further
unless its presented with an alternative invoice for the costs incurred as a result to find the
source of the leak.
how Axa settled the claim
I can understand why Mr B was unhappy with Axas  decision to cash settle the claim rather
than instructing another contractor. It was clear Mr B and his mother  were  unhappy  with the
works carried out by the first contractor, and it was agreed by both sides it wouldnt be
appropriate for them  to carry out the remedial  works needed for the damaged floor.
Ref: DRN42394495Mr Bs preferred contractor  one who had completed works under  an earlier insurance claim
 wasnt  available  to do these works. A second contractor was found by Axa, but the dates
they offered dont appear to have been convenient  for Mrs B as they were just before
Christmas. A third contractor set out a scope of works  and made some further
recommendations regarding the kitchen floor. But he did not complete the works.
After the third contractor visited the property but didnt complete the works, Axa took the
decision to cash settle the claim. While I recognise  that Mr B would  like for me to direct Axa
to find a contractor,  Im not going to do so. Im satisfied that Axas first course  of action was
to try and source  a contractor. But it was not able to find another to complete the works and
it decided to cash settle the claim. I think this was an appropriate action for it to take, given
how long this matter remained unresolved.
And its now within Mrs Bs control, assisted by Mr B if she requires, to decide  on how best to
put things right. Im not going to direct Axa to instruct a new contractor, but it should send a
replacement cheque to Mrs B as the last one, which  had not been cashed,  is now out of
date.
Axa said in August  2018 it offered a sum of money to replace the kitchen floor. It decided to
do this based on some comments from a contractor about the difficulty in repairing  only the
damage part of the kitchen floor. Mr B says the kitchen floor in his mothers house is still
unfinished. Axa has said the cheque  it sent to cover the cost of a new kitchen floor has been
cashed.
I think  it was up to Axa to decide how to settle this part of the claim. And, based on what Ive
seen, it was entitled  to take the decision to cash settle this claim. Its essentially put Mrs B in
the position of finding a contractor to replace  the floor, and given her the money  to replace
the floor that was damaged  by its contractor.
Axa has said they will consider any claim for VAT incurred after Mrs B has the works
completed. So when Mrs B has had the works carried out she can send the invoice to Axa
and it will consider  this. I think  this is fair and reasonable.
the payment for trouble  and upset
Its agreed by both sides that this matter took a long time to resolve.  And, in Mr Bs opinion, it
is still unresolved. There were, at times, lengthy delays and Mr B has explained  that his
mother was very upset and unhappy at living  in her home with both her living room and
kitchen floors in an unfinished and damaged  state. I think the payment of £400 recognised
the upset and frustration she experienced  while she was waiting for the claim to be resolved.
I dont think Axa needs to pay anything further in this respect.
I say this because; Mrs B has received payment for a replacement kitchen floor. While I
understand their preference  was for Axa to source contractors,  I think Mrs B has been in a
position to have  the repairs carried out because Axa has made a payment  to enable her to
do so. So while I agree Axa is responsible for some of the delays, some of the delays have
been outside  of its control. I think it has made a payment that does recognise the impact  the
delays had Mrs B. But I dont think that payment  needs to be increased.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont uphold  this complaint, or direct AXA Insurance UK Plc
to take any further action to put things  right.
COPY
Emma Hawkins
Ref: DRN42394496ombudsman
Ref: DRN4239449