K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the way Lloyds Bank PLC dealt with his loan.  To settle  matters  hed 
like his debt written off and any adverse entries  on his credit file to be removed.
background
Mr B told us that he took out a personal loan with Lloyds at a high rate of interest  in March 
2017. He thinks  the loan was misrepresented  because he was told that with a history of 
repayments his credit score would  improve and hed been able to refinance the loan at a 
lower rate of interest. This turned out not to be the case and in December 2017 he contacted  
Lloyds to explain he was having problems paying.
He says Lloyds  didnt offer him any options when he told them about his financial difficulties. 
And he feels Lloyds forced  him into default  when  he was guaranteed this wouldnt happen.
He also complains  that Lloyds  didnt correctly issue statutory notices which  he believes have led to 
the termination  of his loan agreement  and associated  monies  and that Lloyds  breached  
data  protection  laws  when  his debt  was passed  to a third party  debt  collector.
Mr B complained to Lloyds but it didnt uphold  his complaint. When  Mr B contacted Lloyds to 
explain he was in financial difficulties, Lloyds concluded that the loan was no longer 
affordable and that his loan would have to be transferred to their recoveries team.  Lloyds 
said theyd correctly issued the required regulatory  notices  including the default letter and 
final demand.
Unhappy with Lloyds  response Mr B referred  his complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Bs complaint but they thought Lloyds  had acted reasonably.
They appreciated Mr B had received  a formal demand shortly  after being told about the 
recovery and collections  process. But the recoveries  process started  straight away  because 
Lloyds notes  showed  that a short term plan wasnt  affordable.
Our adjudicator couldnt see any evidence to suggest payments were  made  to the loan after 
the direct  debit was cancelled  or after the default  notice asked for payment. Our adjudicator 
noted that the default notice was issued in February 2018 but Lloyds  didnt default  the account 
until June  2018. The adjudicator thought this was reasonable because wed generally expect a 
bank to apply a default when the account is at least  three  months  in arrears, but within six 
months.
In terms of Mr Bs concerns that recovery of his loan was passed to a debt collector,  our 
adjudicator noted  that the formal demand  letter  explains that the bank may instruct  a 
debt collection agency to recover the debt or take legal  proceedings .
Our adjudicator explained that banks are obliged to treat customers  who are in financial 
hardship positively and sympathetically  and they thought  Lloyds had done so because it 
stopped interest straight away and also discussed  his options going forward.  As a short  
term plan wasnt affordable, Lloyds started the recoveries  process and they thought this 
was reasonable.
The adjudicator also explained that we couldnt  comment on the legality of Lloyds  actions, 
we could only comment on whether we thought they had acted fairly and reasonably.
Ref: DRN40286722Mr B disagrees with the adjudicators view.  Ive summarised his concerns using my own 
words below:-
he says the terms and conditions that purport to allow  Lloyds to transfer  his loan 
account are unfair under Consumer  Credit  Act;
the terms and conditions relating to privacy are non-compliant and make the contract 
unlawful;
the loan was misrepresented and sold to him with the illusion  that the rate would 
decrease after a short time of him taking out the loan;
theres a lack of notes  and the notes  lack clarity  and transparency;
his overdraft was closed whilst issuing a default notice;
he was forced into default  status when he was guaranteed this wasnt  going to 
happen;
he says Lloyds hasnt  issued statutory letters within the prescribed time frame;
he thinks that Lloyds  breached data protection laws when his debt was transferred to 
third party  recovery agents  in breach of data protection;
he thinks the loan and debt should  be terminated  because  Lloyds didnt challenge  
him after hed written to say he was treating the loan as terminated due to their 
breach; and
his complaint wasnt resolved within 8 weeks.
Another adjudicator  responded to Mr Bs concerns but they agreed with the conclusions 
reached by the first adjudicator.  They  also explained  that this service cant make a 
determination about whether Lloyds breached data protection legislation  because  that is a 
question for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to determine  and we also couldnt  
comment on the terms Mr B thinks are unfair under the Consumer Credit Act.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im sorry to disappoint  
Mr B but I agree with the conclusions reached  by our adjudicator and for broadly the same 
reasons.
I can see that Mr B feels strongly about the way hes been treated by Lloyds. I thank Mr B for 
the detailed comments  hes provided  which Ive read and considered. Id like to explain that I 
wont be responding in as much detail. If I dont mention something,  it wont be because  Ive 
ignored it, it will be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint.
There are some parts of Mr Bs complaint that Im unable to consider.
misrepresentation of the loan  Im unable to look at Mr Bs concerns that the loan was 
misrepresented. Thats  because I can only look into the complaint points that Mr B initially 
made to Lloyds when  he complained. This is a new point so if Mr B remains concerned  
about this he will need to make a separate complaint to Lloyds and give it the opportunity to 
investigate and respond first.
privacy provisions in breach of data protection laws and collection of his loan referred to a 
third party agent  in breach of data protection laws - unfortunately its not the role of our 
service to decide if a business has breached data protection laws  thats  the role of the 
ICO.
Ref: DRN40286723Lloyds regulatory  notices not issued  correctly and provisions in breach of Consumer Credit 
Act  were  not a court of law and nor do we have the jurisdiction of one. This means that we 
cant make  findings about  whether or not regulatory  notices  have  been  issued correctly and 
nor can we make any finding  about  whether or not his loan agreement is enforceable. We 
also cant make any finding about  whether the clauses Mr B has referred to are in breach of 
the Consumer  Credit Act.
quality of Lloyds  internal  notes and no response within  8 weeks  I appreciate  Mr B is 
concerned about  the quality of Lloyds notes  but Im afraid I cant tell Lloyds how it should 
record these. Thats because we dont regulate financial businesses and these issues would 
be for the Financial Conduct Authority, as regulator, to decide.
Although Ive explained above the reasons why Im not able to address certain parts  of 
Mr Bs complaint Id like to reassure  him that I can and have looked at whether  or not Lloyds 
treated him fairly and reasonably. I think it did so Ill explain  why.
Mr B had a number of different accounts  with Lloyds at the time but for the purposes of this 
complaint I am only looking at the way he was treated by Lloyds in respect of his personal  
loan.
Lloyds notes show that Mr B told Lloyds  of his financial difficulties in December 2017. I can 
see that a refinancing at 9% was discussed. This wasnt acceptable to Mr B because he 
wanted a lower rate of interest  and this wasnt something Lloyds  could offer. The notes 
record that Lloyds  stopped interest  for 30 days to allow him to explore his options elsewhere.
Mr B contacted Lloyds  again in January 2018.  The notes record  that Mr Bs budget  was 
updated and that no offer could be made. Although Lloyds couldnt offer a solution  I dont 
think this was unfair because a short  term solution  wasnt possible based on his financial 
circumstances at the time. The notes also record that Mr Bs direct  debit  for his loan was 
cancelled and his payment was rejected on 17 January 2018.  From  this point no further 
interest was applied to his loan.
Lloyds wrote to Mr B on 18 January 2018 to confirm that it would temporarily accept monthly  
payments of £60 from him. Im sympathetic to Mr Bs concerns that it was only shortly  after 
this that Lloyds then issued  a default  notice. The default notice gave details of Mr Bs arrears 
and gave a date for payment to be made.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Bs concerns but I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to issue  
the default notice when  it did. I say this because the notes show that Mr Bs budget was 
updated and that it wasnt possible for Lloyds to offer a short term solution so it started the 
recoveries process straight  away.
I realise Mr B thinks he was forced into a default  status when he was guaranteed  this 
wouldnt happen but I havent seen  any information  to support this. The loan agreement 
which was signed  by Mr B explains that his account may default if payments arent made. 
Im satisfied that the letter Lloyds sent to Mr B in January 2018 made it clear that it was a 
temporary and non-binding arrangement  and that the terns  of his loan agreement  requiring 
him to make  contractual  payments when due  would remain  in full force.  This letter also 
explained that his account was in the process  of being sent to recoveries and that a default 
notice would be issued.
Ref: DRN40286724Theres nothing to show that Mr B made any further  payment  to Lloyds after his direct debit 
was cancelled or after Lloyds letter in January 2018  so I cant  say it was unfair for Lloyds to 
issue a default  notice.
The ICO has issued guidance  on the registering of defaults. This guidance broadly provides 
that the ICO would  normally expect a bank to apply a default when an account  is at least 
three months in arrears and by the time an account is six months in arrears. In Mr Bs case,  
although the default notice was issued in February 2018, the default wasnt applied until 
June 2018. As the default was recorded within the time recommended  by the ICO guidance I 
think Lloyds acted fairly because I havent seen anything to suggest Mr B made any 
payments after the default notice or demand were  issued.
I think it was fair for Lloyds to pass Mr Bs debt to a third party  debt collector because the 
default notice  and formal demand  letter explained that Lloyds could do this if the debt 
remained unpaid.
Lloyds customer notes  show that after it completed  details of Mr Bs income and 
expenditure a short  term plan wasnt affordable. Given  that was the case I think Lloyds 
treated him positively  and sympathetically  in the circumstances  because  it stopped  any 
further interest from accruing on his loan and it discussed his options after theyd obtained  
details of Mr Bs financial circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4028672