K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Capital One (Europe)  plc hasnt reduced his credit card balance  to 
zero.
background
In January 2019, Mr G reported his Capital One credit card as having been stolen. After 
being told the card was stolen, Capital One closed the credit  card account and transferred 
the outstanding balance  to a new account. Mr G hasnt made any payments to his credit  
card account  after reporting the card stolen, so Capital  One have been  adding charges and 
interest to the balance.
Mr G has complained that, although hes written  to Capital One over 40 times, they still 
havent reduced his credit  card balance to zero. He believes they should do this because  he 
reported his card stolen.
Our investigator found that Capital One had acted reasonably  by not reducing the credit  card 
balance to zero. Because the last transaction on the credit card was in December 2018, and 
the card hasnt been used after Mr G reported  it stolen, he felt Mr G was liable for the 
outstanding balance, and for any charges and interest applied. This was because Mr G 
made all of the transactions on the card.
He also said Capital One had responded to Mr Gs letters, and these were  sent to Mr Gs 
address. If Mr G didnt receive  these,  he thought  this would be because of an issue  with the 
postal service, and Capital One cant  be held responsible for this. Because of this he didnt  
think Capital One should do anything.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator, so this has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G believes  that, because he reported  his credit card stolen,  the money he owed at the 
time he reported the theft should  be written off. But this isnt how the fraud protection on the 
credit card works. If his card was used fraudulently, then Mr G shouldnt be responsible  for 
any fraudulent transactions. But he is responsible for any transactions  he made, and for the 
balance he owed at the time he reported the card stolen.
Ive seen the statements for Mr Gs credit  card. The last transaction was on 19 December 
2018  almost a month before he reported the card stolen. Capital One cancelled  the card 
as soon as Mr G told them itd been stolen, so it cant be used again. Because the last 
transaction took the balance over the credit  limit, Capital One hasnt issued Mr G with a new 
credit card.
I agree  with the investigator that Mr Gs responsible  for the transactions he made on his 
credit card; and for any interest and charges that have been added to his account. Because  
Mr G made  all of the transactions, Capital One doesnt have to reduce the outstanding 
balance, or refund any of the interest and charges.
Ref: DRN45256822my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Capital One 
(Europe) plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4525682