K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs K have complained about  errors  made by Lloyds  Bank PLC during  the course 
of their remortgage. In particular, they say:
Mr Ss name was incorrect on mortgage documents;
several different  mortgage offers were issued with different interest rates;
they had to visit several  different  branches of Lloyds and complete numerous 
mortgage applications;
they were promised cashback of £1,000 if they moved their mortgage to Lloyds, 
which they have  not received;
the mortgage offer said they would  be paid £250  cashback,  but have not received 
this;
a mortgage  payment  of £500.79 was taken from their account,  before the mortgage  
completed;
Lloyds told them they had a shortfall  on the account, initially  of £5,408.32 but this 
was later amended  to £389.20.
background
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
These are the events  which  led up to the complaint being brought.  In April 2018 Mr S and 
Mrs K decided to move  their mortgage  from another bank (which I will call N) to Lloyds. They 
received a leaflet  which  said that there  would  be a cashback on their mortgage. Mr S and 
Mrs K say that this was an incentive  for them to move their mortgage to Lloyds.
Initially an interest rate of 1.49%  was discussed  for the mortgage,  and an offer was issued, 
but the mortgage documents showed  an interest  rate of 1.69%. Mr S and Mrs K queried this. 
They also noted  that Mr Ss name on the mortgage offer was incorrect. Another mortgage 
offer was issued, which had Mr Ss correct name, but the 1.69% interest  rate. 
Lloyds explained  that it had an incentive of a 0.20% discount on the interest rate if Mr S and 
Mrs K held a specific type of Lloyds current account   the Club account. Mr S and Mrs K 
applied for this account, when it was discovered  that Mr Ss name was incorrect on Lloyds 
system, and it was changed. The following day Mr S received another letter  with the wrong 
name on it, which Lloyds  later clarified  had been sent before the system  change.
Ref: DRN40735682A third mortgage offer was issued dated 7 June 2018. This was for the amount requested  by 
Mr S and Mrs K - £128,000 (plus fees of £995) over a term of 28 years on a repayment 
basis. The mortgage  was on an initial  fixed rate of 1.49% until 31 August 2020.  
Solicitors (SLS) were  instructed by Lloyds on the remortgage. SLS wrote to Mr S and Mrs K 
stating they intended to complete the mortgage and repay N by 25 June 2018. Lloyds wrote  
to Mr S and Mrs K to confirm that their new mortgage had completed,  and that the first 
payment of £500.79  would be collected by direct  debit on 2 June 2018.
But it transpired that the mortgage to N had an early  repayment charge (ERC) which  applied  
until 30 June 2018. Consequently, there was a shortfall  of over £5,000 on the amount of 
money SLS received from Lloyds, which meant they didnt have enough to repay the 
mortgage to N. This meant the mortgage  to Lloyds didnt complete either.  But the wheels 
had been set in motion  for the direct debit,  and the first payment of £500.79  was taken on 
2 July 2018, even though the new mortgage hadnt  been finalised. Lloyds reimbursed this 
back to Mr S and Mrs K on 17 July 2018.
Even when  the ERC had expired, £128,000 was still not enough to pay off the mortgage to 
N. Mr S and Mrs K asked to borrow  additional funds to cover  the shortfall. Another mortgage  
offer was issued on 27 July 2018  for £132,180  (plus  £995 fees) over a term of 26 years on a 
repayment basis. This was follows by another offer dated 17 August 2018 for £132,570  (plus 
£995), again over 26 years on a repayment  basis. The mortgage completed on 20 August 
2018.
Mr S and Mrs K complained to Lloyds about  the service theyd received.  Lloyds apologised  
for Mr Ss name being incorrectly recorded. Lloyds  also explained that the £1,000 incentive 
wasnt available for Mr S and Mrs Ks mortgage, as it was only for mortgages  applied for 
between August-October  2018, and Mr S and Mrs K had applied for their mortgage in April.
Lloyds apologised  for the mix-up over the direct debit in July 2018. Lloyds had thought the 
mortgage had completed on 25 June 2018,  when it in fact had not, due to the shortfall  in the 
amount due to N.
Lloyds offered compensation of £200,  which Mr S and Mrs K didnt  accept. They brought  
their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman  Service, where an investigator  looked at what  
had happened. After  doing so, he didnt think Lloyds  was required to pay any additional 
compensation.
Mr S and Mrs K didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They  
say that £200  doesnt  compensate them  for the number  of trips they had to make by taxi to 
the branch to sort things  out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said above, Ive summarised the complaint in far less detail than set out in the case  file.
Dealing with the issues in turn, my findings  are as follows.
Ref: DRN40735683Its unfortunate Mr Ss name was incorrectly entered on Lloyds system, which resulted in 
documents sent to him with the wrong  name.  Im satisfied that this was simply human error  
on the part of the staff member keying the documents.  
Im also satisfied that the interest rate of 1.49% was available to customers who opened  a 
Club account. Mr S and Mrs K took advantage of this incentive by opening  the Club account, 
and the discount was applied to their initial fixed rate, reducing it from 1.69% to 1.49%.
Ive looked at the £1,000 cashback incentive which Mr S and Mrs K believed they would be 
eligible for. However, Im satisfied they did not qualify  for this, as it didnt apply to 
applications made before August 2018. Their application was made in April 2018. Their 
mortgage did come with a £250 cashback  incentive,  sent to SLS.  If Mr S and Mrs K havent 
received this, they should contact SLS to account  for this.
The main  complaint arose because the amount Mr S and Mrs K initially asked Lloyds to lend 
(£128,000) was about £5,000 less than they actually needed. In particular, there was an 
ERC of £1,320  due to N. Im satisfied that Lloyds would  not have known if there was an ERC 
on Mr S and Mrs Ks previous mortgage;  thats information only Mr S and Mrs K would know. 
I note that SLS received a redemption  statement  dated 13 June 2018 and wrote to Mr S and 
Mrs K on the same  day. The letter enclosed the redemption statement and said:  You should 
ensure that the figure is approximately  correct and that you are borrowing  sufficient 
monies from Lloyds  [my emphasis]
At that point, Im satisfied Mr S and Mrs K knew they had only asked to borrow  only 
£128,000, yet the redemption statement dated 13 June 2018  shows an outstanding balance 
due to N of more than £133,600.  So before completion of the new mortgage,  Mr S and 
Mrs K were  aware  (or ought reasonably to have been aware) that there would be insufficient 
funds from Lloyds to repay their mortgage  to N.
Mr S and Mrs K have told us that they made  it clear to Lloyds throughout the process  that 
they didnt want  the mortgage to complete before the end of June, because of the ERC. But 
that isnt borne out by the contemporaneous  records. 
First I note that Mr S and Mrs K emailed SLS on 16 June 2018 saying that they were happy 
to proceed with the mortgage. After completing  an online questionnaire required by SLS,  
there is another email from Mr S and Mrs K saying Currently Im with [N] that will be expair 
end of this month.  If anything else let me know please.  [sic] But they didnt instruct SLS to 
postpone completion until after the ERC had expired.
There is also a note of a telephone call on 26 June  2018  where Mr S and Mrs K explain that 
the mortgage has just completed but they dont think they will have  sufficient funds for the 
first payment  on 2 July 2018. Given this, Im satisfied Mr S and Mrs K thought their mortgage  
would be completing  before  the end of June 2018.
But in any event, even  after the ERC had expired at the end of June 2018, the outstanding 
balance due to N was still approximately £132,600. So it seems that Mr S and Mrs K had 
miscalculated at the outset when they only asked to borrow £128,000. Lloyds was entitled to 
accept in good faith what Mr S and Mrs K had said in April 2018 when they applied  for the 
mortgage about the amount they owed to N. Lloyds  does not have access to Ns systems to 
be able to find out this information.  It seems to me that Mr S and Mrs K made  a genuine 
Ref: DRN40735684mistake in underestimating how much  they owed N, but I cant hold Lloyds responsible for 
this.
So overall, although I accept that Mr S and Mrs K were caused  some trouble and upset, Im 
not persuaded that this was entirely the fault of Lloyds.  I agree that there were some  errors, 
specifically in relation to the mix-up over Mr Ss name  and in taking the direct  debit before 
the new mortgage had completed. Im satisfied that compensation  should  be paid for this, 
but I think the £200 already paid by Lloyds is fair, reasonable and proportionate to the 
trouble and inconvenience  caused  to Mr S and Mrs K.
In the circumstances, I dont require Lloyds  to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  insofar as Im satisfied that the 
compensation of £200 paid by Lloyds Bank UK PLC is fair and reasonable. I simply leave it 
to Mr S and Mrs K to decide if they want to accept it in full and final settlement of their 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4073568