K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a monthly  premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in October 1998 when she applied for a credit 
card on a postal application form.
background
Mrs M complained to this Service.  Our adjudicator thought the complaint  shouldnt be 
upheld. Mrs M disagreed with our adjudicators  view and asked for the matter to be looked at 
again. 
She added  through her representative  that she had good employee benefits; no need for 
PPI; she could have  maintained her own credit card repayments; she would  have declined  it 
if it had been made  clear  it was optional. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Mrs Ms case.
 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I know  this will disappoint Mrs M so Ill explain why.
Barclays says Mrs M applied  for the credit card and PPI on a postal application form. She 
said no-one told her it was optional as they shouldve done. But that doesnt  surprise me as I 
could see the form was probably sent to Mrs Ms home and she completed  it herself  without 
talking to Barclays staff.  
I can see from the copy of the original  postal application form that Mrs M ticked  a box saying 
Yes to the Payment Protection Plan. If she didnt want to take out PPI then she 
couldve ticked the No box. So I think its likely  Mrs M knew she had a choice about taking 
out PPI and ticked the Yes box because she wanted it. I can see that after ticking  the PPI 
box she then signed and dated  the application form for the credit card. So I can assume  she 
saw and read the form at the time she signed it  and by signing,  she consented to PPI 
being added to the account. As she had a clear choice on the form, I think the PPI was 
shown to be an optional  product.
Barclays says the sale was non-advised which I would expect for a postal sale.  For non-
advised sales, Barclays didnt recommend  the policy to Mrs M, it just gave her information 
about PPI. But the information needed to be clear,  fair and not misleading so that she could 
make an informed choice  about buying PPI. 
Barclays didnt have  the original policy booklet  or leaflets which  may have accompanied the 
form  but that isnt surprising because the sale is quite old. Barclays  said it enclosed  a PPI 
leaflet with the application form that wouldve given her the key features of the PPI policy - 
like the benefits  and the cost. But if she didnt read the leaflet,  I think she still wouldve taken 
the policy because  at the time of the sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
Ref: DRN49954162I dont think shed  have been caught by any of the main things not covered by the policy 
(the exclusions and limitations) which couldve made it difficult  to make  a successful 
claim. So I dont think  that more  detailed information about the exclusions and limitations 
wouldve put her off from buying PPI.
Mrs M said she had significant employee  benefits  but I think  the PPI couldve lasted for 
longer than her employee benefits  if she made a successful  claim.
I dont know how Barclays explained  the PPI cost and benefits to Mrs M. But theres  
nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for her in 1998.  So I dont think that more  
detailed information  wouldve put her off from buying PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think the policy was shown as optional.  And I think the 
information was probably clear  enough for her to make an informed decision. So Im not 
going to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4995416