K822xcomplaint
Mrs S complains about the service she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc in relation to her 
items in safekeeping.
background 
Mrs S said shed used HSBCs  safekeeping service since  1992.  Shed paid an annual 
charge for the service.  In August 2016 Mrs S got a letter  from HSBC  saying it was closing its 
safekeeping service. And Mrs S would have to collect her items. The letter  said her items 
would be stored safely  until collected.
In February 2018  Mrs S received  another letter from HSBC.  It said HSBC no longer held any 
items for her. And shed been contacted in error. Mrs S got in touch with HSBC  to collect her 
safe custody. But the bank mistakenly  said theyd been handed to a third party in March 
2018. Mrs S and her daughter spent three  months trying to locate the items  at the bank. 
They were  eventually found and handed to her daughter in June.
HSBC acknowledged  thered been a series of errors. And Mrs S had been incorrectly  told 
there werent  any items  in safekeeping. The bank said its manager had worked  very hard to 
help Mrs S locate the box. And it offered  £150 for any trouble and upset caused.
Mrs S wasnt  satisfied  with HSBCs response. So she contacted our service  and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. She could appreciate the distress  and inconvenience 
HSBC had caused Mrs S. And she was pleased to see the item had been located  and 
returned to her. After speaking to the bank she felt HSBCs offer of £150 compensation was 
fair in the circumstances.
Mrs S didnt agree. She didnt feel £150 was sufficient for the distress  shed suffered. She 
had to travel  to three branches. And shed  been very concerned about where her items 
were. Mrs S said shed suffered consequential losses as a result  of HSBCs actions. So 
shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how upsetting this mustve been  for Mrs S. She thought HSBC had been 
keeping some items in safekeeping for her. But the bank said it didnt have them.  And then it 
said it did  but theyd been  collected.  It took a number  of calls and visits before HSBC was 
able to locate  the items  and return them to Mrs S. So Ive looked very carefully  at whats 
happened and whether  HSBC needs to do anything  more  to put things right.
HSBC has acknowledged  its service was poor. Mrs S was able to provide evidence  to show 
a deposit had been made with HSBC.  But she had to make a number of calls and visits to 
HSBC to try and find the items. It was only after Mrs S and her daughter made further  efforts 
that the items were located  and returned  some  three  months later. 
I dont underestimate  the upset this mustve caused. HSBC  has offered £150 compensation 
for any distress and inconvenience. But Mrs S says that isnt enough. Shes mentioned  
consequential losses as a result of HSBCs failures. Ive not seen any evidence to consider. 
Ref: DRN44338562But I do appreciate  the time and effort involved in persuading HSBC  to find the safe custody 
items.
Mrs S has also provided details of other decisions made by our service  in relation to safe 
custody mistakes. But its important to realise we make decisions based on the merits and 
circumstances of each  case. 
Its clear Mrs S was given misleading  and incorrect information about  her safe custody 
storage. And she had to put a lot of effort into helping HSBC locate and return the items. But 
I also need to take account of the delay in responding to HSBCs initial letter  in August  2016. 
HSBC had written to users of its safe custody service  to say it would be closing. The bank 
said it would  continue to retain items. But it asked customers to make  alternative 
arrangements for their storage within the next three  months. 
But Mrs S didnt respond until HSBC contacted her again in February 2018. So 18 months 
had passed since  HSBC asked Mrs S to collect her custody items. And this may have 
contributed to the confusion and delay while the items were  located and returned. Mrs S was 
told that her items may have been transferred to another location or marked as account  
holder unknown. And this may not have been  the case if shed been able to collect her safe 
custody items as requested in 2016.
I dont underestimate  the distress  and inconvenience this has caused Mrs S. And Im 
pleased to see the items were located and returned safely to her family.
But based  on everything Ive seen I think HSBCs offer of £150  compensation is fair and 
appropriate in the circumstances. And I wont be asking the bank to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc should pay Mrs S £150 compensation for her 
trouble and upset  as it has already  agreed to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4433856