K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Ms S says National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
NatWest had to make  Ms S aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before 
adding it to her card.  The policy  was taken out by telephone several years after Ms S took 
out her credit card. NatWest has sent us a recording of the call when  Ms S applied  for the 
PPI. Its clear from this call that the PPI was an optional product and that Ms S chose to take 
the policy at the time, although  I can understand why she may not remember this.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Ms S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Ms S got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. 
Ms S has told us she had previously suffered from medical conditions  that she would not 
have been able to claim for under the policy. But the policy didnt exclude claims for 
conditions Ms S has previously suffered from, and based on what  Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover - so it would have  been useful for her if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms S.
But NatWest  has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms S because: 
NatWest got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms S about that. Because NatWest  didnt tell Ms S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms S has said - including what  she has told us about working 
less than 16 hours per week  when  she applied for the policy,  which  would have meant she 
wasnt eligible for all of the cover the policy provided. Ms S has also provided some evidence  
to support her circumstances  at the time. But I have listened to the call when Ms S agreed to 
Ref: DRN49347242take the PPI and in the call she confirms she is working for more  than 16 hours per week.  As 
Ms S gave this information at the time she took the policy  I think its likely to be accurate and 
that she was working more than 16 hours  each  week. So these points dont  change  my 
decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms S.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Ms S any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4934724