K822xComplaint
Mrs V complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) refused to reverse  a transfer of 
funds from her personal account  to her sons Junior  Individual Savings Account (JISA) that was 
made in error, and that Natwest dealt with her husband when the account  affected was hers.
Background 
Mrs V had a Nationwide current account  and her son had a JISA  set up with Nationwide. 
In January 2019 Mrs Vs husband , transferred £500  from Mrs Vs personal  account to their 
sons JISA on Nationwides banking  app. Mrs V explained that this was a mistake and they 
didnt intend the money  to be transferred to that account.
Mrs Vs husband contacted Nationwide wanting the transfer to be reversed and complained 
that the app didnt show a warning message that the transfer  to a JISA couldnt  be returned.
Nationwide explained  they couldnt reverse  a transfer to a JISA because of HMRC rules. 
Nationwide explained  that there was no IT issue that would  have affected  the app and the 
normal warning message would have been  prompted prior to accepting  the transfer. They 
didnt uphold  that part of the complaint.
In the course  of dealing with the complaint  though, Nationwide realised that theyd been  
dealing with Mrs Vs husband  without obtaining the authorisation of the account holder, Mrs V. 
They explained this issue to Mrs V. Nationwide offered compensation of £175 for the upset 
caused by the breach of confidentiality and the upset caused in the handling of the refund.
Mrs V was not satisfied  and brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the circumstances  and didnt feel that Nationwide were to blame for the 
mistaken transfer to the JISA. She felt that the compensation offered by Nationwide  was fair and 
reasonable and didnt  think  that Nationwide needed to do anything  else to resolve the complaint.
Mrs V didnt agree with the outcome and didnt believe  that our investigator had considered 
all the evidence or listened to all the calls made  to Nationwide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Ive considered the transfer of £500  to the JISA. Mrs Vs husband explained that the 
app should have shown a message, warning that the transfer  couldnt  be withdrawn, and 
believes that it didnt.  Nationwide have explained that the app was working  properly and that 
when making a transfer to a JISA there would have been a message warning that funds  
invested in a JISA  cant  be withdrawn. It required the box to be ticked  to confirm  the transfer.  
I cannot know for certain what messages Mrs Vs husband saw when he used the app at the 
time, but I dont have  enough evidence to say that the app wasnt working properly. 
I therefore cant conclude  that Nationwide has done anything  wrong.
Ref: DRN44329712Ive considered Nationwides decision not to reverse the transfer for Mrs V. JISAs are a type 
of account governed by HMRC rules. These  rules are on the HMRC website. They say, 
When  a JISA provider receives  a request to reverse a JISA  subscription, that was paid into 
a JISA in error by a parent of a child or any other  person, they should inform the person 
making the request that their subscription is a gift to a child and it cannot be repaid . I think 
that the decision that Nationwide  couldnt reverse the subscription was a reasonable 
interpretation of HMRC rules. Because of this I dont uphold  this part of the complaint.
Nationwide identified a potential breach of confidentiality when they dealt with Mrs Vs husband  
without checking  with Mrs V. They offered £100 for the upset this may have  caused.  I have 
looked at the impact  caused to Mrs V in order to work out what I think Nationwide  should do to 
put things right. In this case the issues Nationwide discussed with Mrs Vs husband  related to 
Mrs Vs bank  account. Mrs Vs husband  was already aware of the issues though having made 
the transfer himself.  He was also the person who raised the complaint to Nationwide.  Luckily  in 
this case, it seems unlikely that Mrs Vs husband  was provided with any information that he 
didnt already know. Because of this I think the compensation offered by Nationwide  was fair.
Nationwide have also accepted that they caused confusion  in dealing with this and could 
have managed Mrs Vs expectations about  reversing the transfer better. I have  listened  to all 
call recordings  sent to us by Nationwide. I can see that Mrs V may have been caused  upset  
by creating an expectation  that Nationwide may have been able to do more to reverse  the 
transfer. They have  offered  £75 compensation which I think is fair compensation for the level 
of uncertainty  and upset this may have caused.
For the reasons  above I think that the overall offer of £175 compensation Nationwide made 
was fair and I will not be looking to increase it.
My final decision
My decision  is that the payment that Nationwide Building Society  have already made of £175 
is fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset caused. I am satisfied that 
they do not need to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4432971