K821x#15complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with Astrenska Insurance Limited  because, in her view having handled her 
home appliance insurance  claim badly, it refused to replace her cooker.
background
On 1 November 2018 Mrs P smelt gas and an engineer attending her home condemned her 
cooker. Mrs P made a claim to Astrenska. She said the engineer told her it was a part of the 
cooker that was at fault, hed condemned the cooker  and disconnected  the gas supply.
Mrs P provided the proof  of purchase  she had to Astrenska  this was a letter from a 
previous insurer confirming a replacement cooker had been provided. Astrenska told Mrs P 
that this might be sufficient but someone  in the claim team would assess it and call her.
Mrs P had said the matter  was urgent as she had no facility to cook for her family (including 
four children). Mrs P was told the claims team  can take up to 24 hours before making 
contact  but if they could get in touch before they would.
Mrs P didnt  get a call within 24 hours. She chased for an update and was told staff were  off 
sick. She then called Astrenska multiple times  only to be told shed get an update the 
following day. Eventually, in an email dated  30 November, Mrs P was told that the document 
from her insurer  wasnt  sufficient  because it didnt evidence the purchase price of the cooker.
Mrs P asked  her previous insurer for more information. But she was unhappy  with the stance  
taken by Astrenska.  She felt it had agreed  to accept the proof when she originally provided 
it. And she felt the whole thing was taking too long. On 10 December she told Astrenska that 
shed have to get a new cooker  soon  and shed like it to pay her money rather  than attempt 
to repair or replace her existing cooker. On 17 December 2018 Astrenska received further 
proof regarding  the purchase price of the faulty cooker.
On 31 December Astrenska wrote  to Mrs P. It stated  it was waiting  for information from her 
and had been for over 30 days. On the same  day Astrenska provided its final response on 
Mrs Ps complaint. This confirmed that her information had been received on 17 December.
It said it accepted its level of service had been poor and would pay Mrs P £50 compensation. 
It also said it would now progress her claim; shed need to pay her excess  and an engineers  
visit would  be arranged.
Astrenska appointed the engineer on 7 January 2019 and a visit was booked  for 9 January. 
On 9 January 2019 the visit was cancelled. The engineer had called Mrs P and been told the 
cooker had been  replaced and as such it was now in the dining room. The engineer  felt the 
cooker couldnt now be assessed  as it may have  been damaged whilst being moved. 
Astrenska later paid Mrs P £600  in settlement of her claim.
Prior to Astrenskas payment Mrs P complained to us. Our investigator, having noted  the 
recent settlement  by Astrenska felt it and the compensation offer had been fair. As Mrs P 
was unhappy  the complaint was passed  to me. I felt the compensation offer fell short of what 
was fairly  and reasonably due. I said total compensation of £150 should be paid.  And if 
Mrs P hadnt  cashed the settlement cheque this should be reissued. I also felt that 
Astrenska, because it had delayed and those delays  meant Mrs P had likely incurred extra  
costs, should  pay a disturbance allowance. I said:
my provisional findings
Ref: DRN44073622Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Astrenska handled this relatively  simple claim particularly poorly. It knew  the matter  
was urgent and had set Mrs Ps expectations  that it would  be deal with it as such when it told 
her shed be contacted  by the claims team within 24 hours.
Mrs P wasnt told in this call that the proof  shed provided was acceptable. She was told the 
claims team would have  to check it. But it wasnt right for Astrenska to take a month to let 
her know  this wasnt sufficient. Especially not when shed been given a timescale  of
24 hours.
When Mrs P was told the proof wasnt sufficient she provided the necessary information 
within 17 days. Once Astrenska accepted it had received the information an engineer  was 
booked and due to visit within 10 days. So, but for Astrenskas failings this claim should 
reasonably have progressed to that visit before the end of November 2018.
It was 10 December  2018 when Mrs P ordered her new cooker.  It was delivered sometime  
after that. But, importantly, if the engineers  visit had taken  place when it should  have, this 
would have been before  Mrs P became so frustrated  that shed felt she had to replace the 
cooker. And the engineer  would have been able to assess the cooker. If Astrenska hadnt 
chosen to offer settlement  I likely would have made it do so. However,  as Astrenska did 
settle the claim any way  and for a value  that covers Mrs Ps purchase cost  Mrs P wasnt 
disadvantaged by the fact the engineer couldnt  assess the cooker.
And Mrs P hadnt  told Astrenska that the cooker  had been moved into the dining room.  Not 
until the day of the visit. So if she had any inconvenience as a result  of that booked but 
cancelled visit, I cant reasonably blame  Astrenska for that.
If the engineer had come  out before  the end of November, hed have reported to Astrenska 
and it would have  assessed that. Assuming  that it showed it needed to replace the cooker,  it 
would have needed time to order and deliver that replacement. I would have thought though
 given replacing appliances  is a major  part of Astrenskas business   that this should 
reasonably have been done within 10 days. So Mrs P should have had a new appliance by
10 December 2018. Instead the appliance  she purchased was delivered sometime after that 
but before  Christmas.  If Mrs P can show me exactly when the new appliance  was delivered, 
Ill likely  require Astrenska to pay a disturbance allowance to cover  additional  costs  Mrs P 
had for being without her cooker.
That allowance will likely be £10 per adult  and £5 per child per day. Its purpose is to cover 
costs over and above those which  would always have  been incurred.
Mrs P may think Astrenska should pay this over a longer period. However, as Ive explained 
above, even if Astrenska hadnt  failed  Mrs P, her claim would always have taken until 
10 December to complete. So I cant reasonably apply  the disturbance allowance  over a 
longer period.
But I can consider the distress and inconvenience caused from the outset. Thats  because, 
regardless of how long her claim would reasonably have taken to complete, Mrs P was given 
an expectation at the outset that it would at least be progressed within  24 hours. I accept it 
was frustrating that this didnt happen.  And Ive seen all of the calls Mrs P made and the 
efforts she went to move  things on. I also think it was frustrating when she received notice 
Ref: DRN44073623on 31 December stating  that information  that had been requested  was still outstanding, even 
though this had been received  more than 10 days earlier.
Im also mindful that this type of warranty is designed to provide peace of mind for hassle 
free repairs  and/or replacement when key expensive items go wrong. And as this happened 
in the run up to Christmas  I think it was likely even more frustrating for Mrs P that Astrenska 
failed and kept failing her. To the point where  I can understand  why she felt she had no 
choice but to replace the cooker.  For the distress and inconvenience  it caused, I think 
Astrenska fairly and reasonably needs to pay £150.
Im aware that Mrs P told us a little while ago that she hasnt cashed the settlement and 
compensating cheques Astrenska sent her. Id like to know in response to this decision if 
they have now been cashed.  If they havent then Ill likely make Astrenska send the 
settlement payment again as part of my final decision, along with my total compensation 
award of £150.  If either or both have  been  cashed  then my final decision will reflect  that.
Mrs P responded. She said that regarding the details of the engineers  visit set out in my 
background, she recalled  things differently.  Mrs P said the visit had never been properly 
booked and Astrenska  was using the excuse of the cooker having been moved as 
justification for cancelling the visit. The purchased  cooker  was of a lower specification than 
the faulty one. £150 compensation doesnt make  up for the time spent, especially not in 
respect of having made herself  available for the engineers visit that wasnt actually booked 
and didnt take place. Mrs P said shed cashed the cheques for £50 and £600. 
Mrs P also provided detail and evidence confirming  when  her new cooker had been 
delivered and installed. I sent this to Astrenska.  I said this showed Mrs P had been without a 
cooker when she should  reasonably have had one but for its delays,  from 
10 December 2018 until 17 December 2018. I noted her family  consisted of four adults and 
two children. I said Astrenska should pay £350 as a disturbance allowance for this 
seven-day period  (£10 per adult  and £5 per child, per day).
Astrenska replied both in response to my overall provisional findings,  and my updated 
findings regarding  the disturbance allowance. Astrenska said the reasoning  behind  its terms 
should be taken  into account. And whilst  the replacement hadnt  been provided as 
compensation, it could  rightly have refused to provide such  but chose not to. It said it had 
chosen to only pay £50 compensation because it had concerns about the claim. Regarding 
the disturbance  allowance it said it was unsure if this was separate to my compensation 
award of £150.  It also said that Mrs P seemed to have delayed  getting the cooker  installed 
(this taking  place five days after delivery). If shed told it the item was being delivered, it said,  
it would  have sent someone out on the delivery  date to install  it. As Mrs P hadnt given it that 
opportunity it would only offer an allowance of £100 for the two days from 
10 December 2018 until the new cooker was delivered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was aware when I made my provisional  decision  of what  Mrs P recalled having  taken  place. 
My background and findings though were written  having  assessed all of the evidence 
available. Im satisfied  that what Ive said presents  an accurate reflection taking all evidence 
into account.
Ref: DRN44073624Im aware of the reason  for Astrenskas terms. Essentially it doesnt want  to be responsible 
for repairing faults that have resulted from appliances being  moved.  Nonetheless Astrenska 
prejudiced its own position by not handling  the claim more quickly.  Im still of the view that if 
Astrenska had refused  to settle for the replacement cooker, Id likely have made it do so. 
I accept that, because of its delays  Mrs P felt she had no reasonable choice but to replace 
the item,  and in doing that all possibility  of assessing what  had caused  the damage  to the 
cooker was lost.
Astrenskas settlement reimburses  Mrs Ps loss. I realise she replaced the cooker on a 
budget. But that was her choice. If she had wanted just a temporary replacement she could 
have looked at lower  cost options. Rather I think Mrs P chose an item she was generally 
happy to permanently install even if it wasnt quite like the item she had before. Therefore, 
Astrenskas settlement, which was in line with the cost of that item, is fair and reasonable. 
Given the significant and unjustified delays  that Astrenska caused  during this claim, Im not 
convinced it would have  taken notice of Mrs P if shed told it a new cooker was being  
delivered. And given  its reluctance to accept the claim Im not convinced it would have 
offered to go out and install the new cooker either.  Im not persuaded that Mrs P caused any 
unreasonable delay at this time.  I think she likely got the cooker installed as soon as she 
reasonably could. Im satisfied that £350 as a disturbance allowance  for the seven-day 
period 10 December 2018 until 17 December  2018, for four adults and two children, is fairly 
and reasonably due.
This is in addition to the £150  compensation. The £150 compensation is different and distinct 
from the disturbance  allowance;  the latter is to cover  extra  costs  incurred, the former makes  
up for distress and inconvenience suffered.   I realise Mrs P thinks  £150  is insufficient given 
what she went through. But nothing shes said in response has changed my mind that this is 
a fair and reasonable award. 
As Mrs P has confirmed that she has cashed  the £50 compensation cheque previously paid 
by Astrenska, that will be reflected in my award. It will only now have to pay a further £100. 
Similarly, Ive removed  the award  for the £600 claim settlement.
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require Astrenska Insurance Limited to pay Mrs P:
£350 as a disturbance allowance for the seven-day period 10 December 2018 until 
17 December  2018 in respect  of four adults and two children.
£100 as a further compensation payment. This is in addition to the £50 already paid by it 
and received by Mrs P. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4407362