K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Lookers Motor  Group  Limited (Lookers) misled  him about the APR on 
his finance agreement and didnt provide details of alternative finance  options. Hes also 
unhappy about the mileage recorded on the car and that he had to pay road tax.
background
In September  2018 Mr D entered into a hire purchase agreement to fund a used  car. The 
deal was brokered by Lookers. But Mr D complains that the APR he was shown on screen, 
when he signed  up for the car, was not the one that he subsequently found  was on the 
finance agreement. He also says that his signature  may have been falsified on the 
supporting documentation that suggest alternative finance options  were shown to him: he 
says this was not the case.
Lookers said hed signed the hire purchase agreement and it clearly  set out that the APR 
would be 8.8%. They  also provided  a copy of a document  entitled  your finance options  
which they said Mr D had signed and which they explained  confirmed  his understanding  of 
the rate of interest  that was being  applied to the loan. They said that in this document Mr D 
had also confirmed that the various  finance options had been explained to him. So they 
didnt think the loan had been misrepresented  to Mr D or that his options hadnt  been 
explained.
Mr D therefore referred  his complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator explained that Mr Ds 
complaint about  the cars mileage and road tax would need to be addressed to the finance 
company as they dealt with misrepresentations of the vehicle  and with breaches of contract. 
She thought  Mr Ds suggestion  the signatures  may have been falsified was more  a question 
for the courts than for this service  and she didnt think there was evidence  that the 
agreement had been mis-sold, or the finance options hadnt been  explained,  as she noted  
Lookers had been able to provide signed documentation that suggested Mr Ds options  had 
been made clear: as had the APR.  She said Santander had explained  the dealership 
wouldnt have been able to amend the APR,  which was provided by the finance company, as 
it wasnt provided in an editable format. So overall,  she didnt think  there  was sufficient 
evidence that Lookers  had done  anything wrong  and she didnt think  it would be fair to ask 
them to take any further action.
But Mr D was still dissatisfied. He said that falsifying signatures  was a very serious matter  
and he asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN41124752board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The relevant  law says that the finance should not have been misrepresented  to Mr D. If it 
was, and if I thought  there was evidence that Mr D wouldnt  have entered  into the agreement  
if the misrepresentation hadnt happened, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Lookers to 
put this right.
APR rate
Whilst Mr D asserts  he was shown a different APR rate on the screen  Im afraid I have no 
evidence to support  that. I understand that Mr D cancelled his credit agreement after only 13 
days and has arranged  alternative finance. So I can understand that when  he reflected on 
the agreement  he decided he could get cheaper  finance elsewhere. But Im not persuaded 
that suggests the APR was misrepresented to him. I think  its more likely  than not that the 
correct APR was explained. I say that because he appears to have signed  the agreement  
and options form to say that was the case and also because I think  its likely the agreement  
would have been sent in a non editable format  and couldnt have been  amended  by Lookers.
finance options
Ive reviewed the form entitled your finance options. That form was signed and initialled by 
Mr D. He asserts that this wasnt his signature but I think such  a serious allegation  isnt one 
we are equipped to handle here.  We are an informal dispute resolution service  and an 
allegation of fraud would be best referred  to the courts.  Thats an option  thats  still available  
to Mr D. But on the basis of the evidence I have  I am persuaded that its most likely the 
alternative finance options were  explained to him as Ive been provided  with signed 
documentation to suggest they had been.
So overall, I dont  think theres evidence that Lookers did anything  wrong  here and I wont be 
asking them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4112475