K822xcomplaint
Miss R is complaining that Volkswagen  Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS)  is asking 
her to pay charges  after she returned  a car she acquired through a hire purchase 
agreement.
background 
In February 2015  Miss R entered  into a hire purchase agreement through  VWFS to acquire 
a car. She returned the car in January 2018 and the car was inspected  for damage. The 
inspector told Miss R that there was some damage which  would be considered  more  than 
fair wear and tear and said that Miss R would be charged for this. Miss R says the inspector 
told her that she would be told about  the charges within four weeks. 
Miss R says that she disputed the charges and she says that the inspector told her that she 
could dispute  this with VWFS.
In April 2018 VWFS wrote  to Miss R saying that she owed it £398.54. Miss R disputed this 
as she says VWFS hadnt contacted her within four weeks. VWFS says that it sent her an 
invoice on 5 March  2018, but irrespective of this, it said that she owed  this money.  Miss R 
didnt agree and she raised a formal complaint. VWFS issued a final response  to her 
complaint saying that the charges were fair and it said she had six months to refer her 
complaint to this service.
Miss R contacted VWFS as she says it hadnt  looked at her complaint correctly as she said 
that her complaint  was that VWFS hadnt  contacted her within four weeks  so she said it 
wasnt entitled to charge  her for anything.  And she also maintained that she hadnt received 
the invoice of 5 March  2018. VWFS accepted that it hadnt sent the invoice, but maintained  
that it was entitled  to charge the amount it was charging. It said the charges  were for the 
following:
Dent to the right-hand rear door
Scratches to two of the alloy wheels
Both front tyres were  bald
Miss R said that she intended  to refer the complaint to this service, but she said that she 
didnt intend to do so until November 2018. And she asked VWFS to put the matter on hold 
until this service reviewed the complaint. She says VWFS gave her misleading information  
about what would happen to her credit file. She says that some call handlers said it wouldnt 
affect her credit  file. But she says she was also told it would do so. She also says that the 
debt was passed to debt collectors who she says threatened to send bailiffs  to her house.
In November 2018 Miss R referred her complaint to this service.  Since  then VWFS agreed to 
waive the charge  for one of the tyres as it couldnt  show that it was bald. It also agreed  to 
reduce the amount Miss R owed by a further £75 due to the customer service  Miss R had 
received. Our adjudicator  reviewed the complaint and he thought that VWFSs offer was fair. 
He said that Miss R was contractually required to pay the damage charges and the fact that 
she wasnt told about them within four weeks didnt stop that. He also noted from VWFSs 
internal notes that Miss R had told it at the time that the person who inspected  her car had 
told her the charges would be around  £290.  So he was satisfied that Miss R did know  about  
the charges. He also thought £75 was fair compensation for what had happened.
Ref: DRN40718892Miss R didnt agree with the adjudicator for the following  reasons:
1.She maintains  that VWFS was required to notify her within four weeks of any charges. 
So she says it was in breach of its responsibilities and she thinks this means  its no 
longer able to charge her;
2.She doesnt think the adjudicator has taken  into account the fact that, despite 
assurances from VWFS that this wouldnt affect her credit  rating,  the debt collectors 
threatened to send  bailiffs around;
3.£75 doesnt  take into account  the amount of time shes spent  on the phone speaking with 
VWFS and drafting  and sending  emails.
So she asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. I issued  a provisional decision in 
May 2019 partially upholding this complaint. And I said the following:
can VWFS charge Miss R for damage  on her car?
The terms of the hire purchase agreement Miss R signed set out that she is responsible  for 
any damage to or deterioration of the Vehicle  which is in excess of fair wear  and tear 
commensurate with the age and mileage of the Vehicle.
So Miss R agreed to be responsible for any damage to the car when it was returned that was 
considered to be more  than usual wear and tear.
The British  Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  (BVRLA) have issued guidelines  on what  
it considers to be fair wear and tear on cars that were acquired new.  And VWFS has used 
these guidelines in assessing  whether the damage  on her car was fair wear or tear. The 
agreement sets out that Miss R acquired  this car brand new, so I think  it was fair for VWFS 
to use the guidelines in this case.
VWFS has provided photographs of some of the damage its charged for. Its since agreed to 
waive the charges  where it doesnt  have  photographic evidence  of the damage  i.e. of the 
right-hand front tyre which the inspector says was bald. And, given it cant show that the 
wear on this tyre was more than fair wear and tear, I dont think it can fairly charge for this. 
So I think it was fair for VWFS to waive this charge. 
Ive looked at the photographs it has provided and, taking  the BVRLA guidelines into 
account, I think they show that the damage  was more than what the BVLRA  guidelines 
would consider fair wear and tear for the following reasons:
1. The BVRLA considers dents  up to 10mm in diameter to be acceptable.  I think the 
dent on the right-hand rear door is more than that.
2. The BVRLA considers scuffs  and scratches  up to 50mm  on the alloy wheels to be 
acceptable. I think the photographs show that the scratches on the alloy wheels in question  
are more than 50mm. 
3. The BVRLA also says that all tyres must  meet the minimum UK legal requirements. 
And Im satisfied that VWFS has shown that tread  depth on the left-hand  front tyre was 
below the legal requirement.
Given this, and taking  into account  the age and mileage of Miss Rs car, I think  it was fair for 
VWFS to consider this damage to be more than fair wear and tear. I also dont think the 
amount its charged  for the damage  is unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN40718893Miss R says that VWFS didnt inform her about  the charges  for around three  months. So she 
doesnt think that VWFS is allowed to charge  her for the damage as it didnt notify  her of the 
charges within  four weeks.  VWFS appears  to have accepted in a telephone call with Miss R 
in May 2018  that it didnt send the original invoice to her. And, based  on this, Im satisfied 
that the first correspondence she received from VWFS about the charges was in April 2018 
 around three months after she returned  the car. But I dont agree that this means she 
doesnt have to pay the charges.
As I said,  in entering into the contract, Miss R agreed to be responsible for any damage 
which was considered to be in excess of wear and tear. I dont disagree  that VWFS should 
have told Miss R about the charges  sooner. But I dont think  in this specific  case  the length 
of time VWFS has taken  to inform her of the charges means she should avoid what she 
agreed under the terms and conditions. 
Further to this, it appears that Miss R was told when her car was inspected that the charges 
would be around  £290. So Im satisfied  she was aware that there would be charges and that 
they wouldnt have  come as a surprise  to her.
Given all this, I dont think its unfair that VWFS  is requiring Miss R to pay the charges it says 
she owes.
trouble and upset
VWFS has agreed to reduce the amount  Miss R owes by a further £75. So it has in effect 
offered her £75 in compensation.  I think this is fair compensation  and Ill now explain why. 
Miss R says that VWFS has given her conflicting  information throughout the process  about  
whether this would  affect her credit  file or not. I can see that Miss R was initially told that this 
would affect her credit file. But shortly afterwards VWFS confirmed that it wouldnt. And I 
havent seen anything to show that it did affect  her credit file. So I dont think Miss R has lost 
out as a result of any initial  misleading  information  she was given. 
However I do think VWFS has consistently  told Miss R that, while it wont impact  her credit 
file, it would continue  to pursue her for the debt.  And it wasnt  required to put the debt on 
hold. So I dont think it treated her unfairly in chasing  her for the debt and ultimately  
instructing debt collectors. I note Miss R is unhappy that the recovery  agent suggested that 
the debt would be referred  to bailiffs. But Im satisfied VWFS did confirm  that it wouldnt do 
so in the short term. But, irrespective of this, Miss R owed the money  VWFS was asking her 
to pay and VWFS was entitled to ask her to pay it. 
Miss R has said that the compensation  doesnt  take into account the amount of time shes 
spent discussing this matter with VWFS. But I think shes mostly spent this time because  she 
didnt think VWFS should be allowed to charge her for this. And, as I said above, it was 
entitled to require her to do so. So I dont think VWFS has unfairly caused her distress and 
inconvenience as a result  of this.
However I do think the fact that it took almost  three  months to inform  her of the charges and 
also to initially incorrectly say that it sent an invoice  to her in March  2018 did cause her some 
distress and inconvenience. But I think £75 is fair compensation  for this.
Both parties  responded to say they accepted  my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN40718894my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither party has given  me anything else to think about I see no reason  to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached  in my provisional decision. So I partially uphold this 
complaint for the reasons Ive set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  has already to waive the charge for the right-
hand front tyre (£73.27) and also to reduce the amount Miss R owes  by a further £75 to 
settle the complaint. And, for the reasons Ive set out above, I think  this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should reduce the 
amount that its requiring  Miss R to pay by £148.27.  So Miss R is only required to pay it 
£250.27.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4071889