K822xcomplaint
Ms M complains that R. Raphael & Sons Plc, trading  as Raphael  Finance, financed a car for 
her that was faulty  at the point of supply. Shed like to reject the car.
background 
Ms M took receipt of a used car on 12 March 2018.  She financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with Raphael Finance but on 24 April 2018  she had to return it to the 
garage for repairs. A couple  of gaskets were replaced and the cam belt was exchanged as it 
had been contaminated  with oil.
But the issues continued and on 30 April Ms M authorised Raphaels to complete additional 
repairs. The car was recovered and the head gasket, camshaft  and pulleys were repaired  
and the cylinder  head was refaced. The repairs were completed  on 1 June  and Raphaels  
have been holding the car since. But Ms M is refusing to collect  it as she says she wants to 
be allowed to reject the vehicle.
Raphaels said that as Ms M had authorised them to repair the vehicle they should be 
allowed to do so rather than sanction a rejection of the car. They  offered to match  the 
brokers offer of £50 towards the expenses  Ms M had incurred whilst her car was off the 
road. But they were  satisfied that her car had been  repaired within  a reasonable timeframe 
as they noted  the garage had to wait for a part to be sent back  to them  by a third party.
So Ms M referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator  took a look at the 
evidence. He noted that Ms M had authorised the repairs in May so he didnt  think  it was fair 
of her to insist it was now rejected as the law didnt support this. He thought the repairs  had 
been carried out in a reasonable  timeframe  but he didnt think  it was reasonable for Ms M to 
be paying for the car whilst it was being  repaired. He noted  that it was in the garage for 35 
days and he suggested  the instalments Ms M had made for this period should  be refunded 
to her. He thought the business should also pay Ms M £100 to reflect the additional costs 
shed experienced as a result of being  without the car and that they should pay her £200 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  shed experienced. But, as the car had 
been repaired by 1 June 2018 and Ms M had not been willing  to collect it, he didnt  think it 
would be reasonable to ask Raphael Finance to refund any payments shed made  towards 
her agreement since the car had been  ready for collection.
Raphael Finance accepted the adjudicators view but Ms M didnt. She thought  she should 
still be allowed to reject the car and that Raphael  Finance should  refund the money shed 
been paying towards her finance agreement  whilst  she didnt have it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the adjudicators  suggested remedy is reasonable here but, whilst I understand 
Ms Ms frustration, I dont think it would be fair to ask Raphael  Finance to allow her to reject  
the car in the circumstances. I know that will disappoint Ms M so please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN49974612Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms M acquired  her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Raphael Finance  
needed to take action  to put that right.
Raphael Finance shouldve been allowed  one opportunity to repair the car and if that repair 
failed Ms M would have  been given a chance to reject the vehicle.  In this case the first repair 
failed but Ms M subsequently authorised the dealership to repair  the car again and that 
repairs now been completed. So I dont  think its reasonable to now expect  Raphael  Finance 
to allow  her to reject  the car. I say that because significant expense has been incurred by 
them getting  the car fixed and, if the vehicle has been repaired properly,  it will now be of 
satisfactory quality and there would appear  to be no reason why Ms M cant continue  with 
the agreement. The relevant legislation also supports this view.  It says:
A consumer who  agrees to the repair of goods,  cannot require the trader  to replace  
them, or exercise the short  term right to reject, without giving the trader  a reasonable time to 
repair them
It goes on to say:
unless giving  the trader that time would  cause significant inconvenience to the customer.  
And here Im not persuaded that the length  of time the car was in for repair would  cause 
significant inconvenience. I say that because its clear Ms M had the use of another  car 
during this period and I dont think the repair delay was extensive  given the use of a third 
party and the need to reface the cylinder head.
So overall, I dont  think theres evidence that suggests Ms M should  be allowed to reject the 
vehicle. But shes certainly  been inconvenienced  by this episode;  will have  incurred some  
costs whilst she was without the car and clearly shouldnt have to pay for a car that was in 
the garage. 
Ive considered each  of these issues and I agree with the settlement suggested by the 
adjudicator. I think its reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive also considered how I should  treat the payments that Ms M has been  making  towards 
her finance  agreement whilst she hasnt had the car but whilst its been  ready  to collect. I 
dont think it would be reasonable to ask Raphaels to pay these. I say that because theyve 
now done all they can. Theyve repaired Ms Ms car as she requested  and whether she 
choses to drive it or not is out of their control.
I believe there is a dispute about  storage costs with the garage the car has been left at. I 
understand Raphael Finance are going to speak to the garage  to see what can be done but 
as this is an independent issue, not related  to the finance agreement,  and between  Ms M 
and the garage, I cannot look at it any further.
Ref: DRN49974613my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell R. Raphael  & Sons Plc to:
calculate and refund instalments for 35 days when the car was being repaired. Add 
8% simple interest  to these payments from the time of payment to the date of 
settlement.
pay Ms M £100 to compensate her for expenditure incurred whilst the vehicle was off 
the road
pay Ms M £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes been put 
to
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4997461