K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about a number of loans  he took out through a company called  PDL 
Finance Limited,  trading  at the time as Mr Lender. Mr A says he was lent to irresponsibly 
and the loans caused him financial problems.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer mainly to Mr Lender throughout this decision.
background
We now know that Mr A took out 4 loans from Mr Lender between  August 2018 and 
November 2018.  Ive enclosed a summary  of Mr As borrowing with Mr Lender,  based on the 
information it provided to us. It can be found  in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
Im sorry  Mr A has had to wait a while for his complaint to get to this stage. Nevertheless, 
one of our adjudicators has recently  re-looked into the complaint and said they didnt think  it 
should be upheld.  Ive been asked  to make an ombudsmans  final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about short-term  lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.  Ive followed this approach when thinking about Mr As complaint.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr A could repay the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks  ought  to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should  have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer.  These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully  considered all of these things 
and what they mean  for Mr As complaint.
Mr Lender told us it carried  out certain  checks before agreeing to lend to Mr A, including 
assessing his income,  expenditure and creditworthiness. It says that based on what was 
said, this information  showed that Mr A would be able to make the loan repayments he was 
committing to on all 4 occasions. 
Ref: DRN44119082Im afraid I too dont  think  theres enough evidence to uphold his complaint. For all 4 loans, 
he declared his net income (after tax) as £1,700 per month and he also provided details 
about his expenditure. I think the repayments on the first 3 loans  were  affordable,  not least 
because the amounts being borrowed were quite moderate. It seems to me the repayments 
were within Mr As capacity to repay given what hed declared his income  to be.
By the time we get to loan number 4 I note the amount  lent to him did increase but because 
the repayment period was 6, rather than 3 months,  the monthly costs didnt go up too much.  
I think the repayments were still within his capacity to pay. I also note that all loans were only 
ever taken out after hed paid back the previous one, earlier than he was contracted  to do.
I think its possible that more thorough financial  checks could have exposed Mr As financial 
situation better, but as Ive mentioned  above,  he was still in the early stages of a lending  
relationship with this business and there doesnt  seem to be anything that would have 
caused Mr Lender to think he was in financial  trouble  or might be unable  to pay a loan back.
In short,  I think the checks carried out in this case were  proportionate and Im afraid there 
isnt enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont  direct  PDL Finance 
Limited to pay Mr A any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Loan Date  Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 11/08/2018 24/08/2018 3 £200.00 £110
2 03/09/2018 25/09/2018 3 £200.00 £124
3 14/10/2018 25/10/2018 3 £225.00 £122
4 12/11/2018 23/11/2018 6 £400.00 £154
Ref: DRN4411908