K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr A says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr A says it wasnt made clear  that the policy was optional.  Halifax has given  me a copy 
of the signed credit  agreement from the time of the sale. In this there was a separate  
section for additional products. An X has been  printed in the box next to PPI, indicating 
that Mr A wanted to buy it. I can see the box next to card protection  has been left blank, 
so I think Mr A was aware he could  pick and choose what products he wanted.
Ive considered the fact that the X was printed onto the page. I can see Mr As personal 
information, such as his address and employment details, have also been printed onto 
the application form. So I think the form was completed following a conversation about      
Mr As personal circumstances. Considering everything, I think Halifax made it clear that  
Mr A didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose  to take it out.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr A so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. 
Mr A wouldve  received six months  at full pay followed by six months at half pay if he 
was sick. But the policy couldve covered  him for up to twelve  months per claim if he was 
too ill to work, had an accident or was made redundant. And that wouldve been in 
addition to his sick pay. As he received half pay for a period of time and the policy 
provided additional cover, I think he couldve found it useful. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking 
out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr A paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr A back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr A.
Ref: DRN41110292my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4111029