K821x#15Complaint 
Mr and Mrs C complain that their home  insurance renewal documents  for a policy  
underwritten by Aviva Insurance Limited,  didnt  make it clear  enough that they could shop 
around for an alternative policy.  And when they complained they were  sent another  
policyholders information.
Background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 28 February 2020 - a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
what should happen to resolve  the complaint. I invited both parties to send any additional  
comments or evidence they wished to make. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr and Mrs C and Aviva confirmed  they accepted my provisional decision and didnt 
put forward any new information for me to consider.  As neither party  has provided me with 
any new information or arguments to consider, I see no reason to change  the findings  or 
outcome I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained  above,  and in my provisional decision, I uphold                           
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.  I require Aviva Insurance  Limited to pay Mr and Mrs C the 
following: £284.15  pro rata from 31 May 2018 to 18 February  2019. 
Interest  at eight percent simple on this amount from the date they paid their renewal 
premium to Aviva to the date the above  amount due is paid to them. 
£100 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience this matter  has caused  them.
£50 in compensation  for sending  them  information about a third party if it hasnt  paid 
this already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2020.
Sandra Greene
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48831522Copy of provisional  decision on 28 February 2020
Complaint 
Mr and Mrs C complain that their home  insurance renewal documents  for a policy  
underwritten by Aviva Insurance Limited,  didnt  make it clear  enough that they could shop 
around for an alternative policy.  And when they complained they were  sent another  
policyholders information.
Background
Mr and Mrs C held a home insurance  policy underwritten by Aviva Insurance Limited
for several  years.
In February 2019,  Mr and Mrs C received a letter saying that their home insurance provider 
should have made information about  policyholders being able to shop  around  clearer  when 
it issued renewal documentation in 2018.
On receipt of this letter, Mr and Mrs C say they shopped around  and found  an alternative 
policy cheaper than the one they had renewed. They cancelled their existing policy with and 
complained to Aviva that they had been paying more  for their insurance policy than they 
should have been.    
Aviva didnt agree with Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. It said it had clearly  set out the premium  
for the current year and the previous year as a comparison. And it didnt think                                
Mr and Mrs Cs position had been  prejudiced by its failure to put the information about  
shopping around in a more prominent  position.
Unhappy with the response, Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint to this service. At this 
point, Aviva maintained  its position as above,  but it acknowledged that information  relating to 
another policyholder had been incorrectly  to Mr and Mrs C. So it apologised and offered £50 
in compensation  for the upset this caused.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter, but she didnt think  Aviva  had done  anything 
wrong. She acknowledged that the reminder to shop  around was on page  two. But she felt 
this was enough, given that Aviva had also provided a comparison  between the previous 
years premium and the new premium  on the first page. She also said the offer of £50 in 
compensation for receiving information  relating to a third-party was fair.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with this and asked for final decision.  So the complaint has been  
referred to me.   
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold         
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN48831523Mr and Mrs C renewed their home  insurance  policy on 31 May 2018  at a cost of £831.16. 
They paid by direct  debit with the first payment of £69.26 being collected  on 28 June  2018.
Its not in dispute  that a letter was sent to Mr and Mrs C in February 2019 to explain that the 
reminder to shop around in their May 2018  renewal  documents should have been more 
prominent.  
Despite this our investigator thought that Aviva hadnt done anything wrong. But, as it was 
the regulator (The Financial  Conduct  Authority - FCA) that had prompted this letter to be 
sent, Im satisfied that the reminder  that Mr and Mrs C could shop around should  have been 
more prominent  than it was.
As the reminder  wasnt prominent enough, I need  to decide what (if anything)  Mr and Mrs C 
would have done differently had it been  more  prominent.
Aviva has confirmed that Mr and Mrs C cancelled the policy  with it on 18 February  2019   the 
same month as they received  the letter saying the reminder to shop around hadnt  been 
prominent enough in the renewal documents. And Mr and Mrs C have provided evidence  to 
show they took a similar  policy  with another provider on that date too at a much lower  premium. 
Mrs Cs new policy was £284.15 cheaper than the one they renewed  with Aviva.  And  
although it was eight months  or so later than when they renewed Avivas  policy, I think  its 
most likely theyd have found  a policy  at the same  or a very similar price  at this time, if theyd 
shopped around. This is because while prices  vary in the market over time, there doesnt 
tend to be a great difference  over such a short space of time. 
Mr and Mrs C acted very promptly  on receipt of the letter. And the new premium was 
significantly cheaper than the existing policy. So Im persuaded that  had the reminder been 
more prominent  in the renewal documents, they wouldve switched provider in May 2018 
when they received the renewal documents. But, as the reminder wasnt prominent enough, 
they did not do so. As a result, I think it is most likely  Mr and Mrs C paid over £280 more  for 
their home insurance than they would have  if the reminder on Avivas renewal document had 
been as clear as I think it should have been.
Given this, I think Mr and Mrs C have lost out financially as a result  of Avivas failing. And I 
think the fair and reasonable  outcome to this complaint is for Aviva  to compensate them  for 
this. They  cancelled their Aviva policy in February  2019 and this means they were paying 
more than they should have done  from 31 May 2018  to 18 February 2019 and the 
compensation they receive needs  to reflect this. 
I also think the problem  with paying  too much for their policy  and the hassle of having  to move 
it once they discovered  this caused  Mr and Mrs C distress and an inconvenience  and I think  
Aviva should  compensate  them  for this as well. Aviva should also pay interest on the amount 
due back to Mr and Mrs C, as they have been deprived of money  they should have had. 
Im satisfied what Aviva has already offered in compensation  for sending Mr and Mrs C 
information relating  to a third part is fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN48831524my provisional decision
So Ive provisionally  decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. And Aviva  should pay             
Mr and Mrs C the following:
£284.15 pro rata from 31 May 2018 to 18 February 2019. 
Interest  at eight percent simple on this amount from the date they paid their renewal 
premium to Aviva to the date the above  amount due is paid to them. 
£100 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience this matter  has caused  them.
£50 in compensation  for sending  them  information about a third party if it hasnt  paid 
this already. 
Ref: DRN4883152