K820x#14complaint
C, a limited company,  complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to process a request to 
cancel a direct debit. Payments continued to be taken from its business account. C is 
represented by its director,  who Ill refer to as Mr C. Mr C asks for compensation.
background
Mr C says he cancelled a direct debit from Cs business account in September 2018, using 
HSBCs online banking service. In late December  2018 he saw that payments had continued  
and the direct debit  was listed  as active. Mr C says C lost money as a result.  Mr C says 
HSBC didnt attempt  to investigate what happened when he raised his concerns.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint about the cancellation of the direct 
debit should be upheld. He said there wasnt evidence  that Mr C contacted HSBC in 
September 2018 to cancel the direct debit or that it was cancelled  before January 2019. And 
Mr C could have seen  from the monthly  statements  that the payments were  still being made. 
The investigator recommended  that HSBC pays £50 for poor service in responding to Cs 
complaint. He said Mr C was inconvenienced  by having to call at least  twice after the final 
response letter was issued before he received a copy.
Neither HSBC nor Mr C agreed  and so the complaint  was passed to me. I didnt  agree with 
all of the investigators recommendations, so I sent a provision decision to the parties to 
explain why. In summary, I said there was no evidence Mr C had cancelled the direct debit in 
September 2018. And while it was unfortunate that Mr C didnt receive  HSBCs final 
response letter, this wasnt  due to an error by HSBC. In the circumstances, I said it wasnt 
fair and reasonable to require HSBC  to pay compensation.
Mr C didnt agree. He raised  a number of points  all of which  Ive considered,  and where I 
think appropriate commented on, when  reaching  my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr C said he cancelled a direct debit  online in early September 2018. He says HSBCs 
systems didnt process his request. As a consequence,  not only did direct debit payments 
continue but theres  no evidence  of his cancellation  request.  I do appreciate  Mr Cs 
frustration about  this.
I hope Mr C will also understand the difficulty I have here. In order to find that HSBC  made 
an error, I need to find that the cancellation request was made  and it was HSBCs  systems 
that failed to process it. Mr C has confirmed  he cant provide evidence that he made the 
cancellation request.
Ref: DRN42988742HSBC says it has no record  of Mr C cancelling  the direct debit in September 2018  or logging 
into Cs account on 4 September 2018.  It provided  information which  supports this. Mr C 
now says he cant remember the exact date in early September that he cancelled  the direct  
debit. But when he brought  the complaint to us he said it was 4 September  2018. I think its 
reasonable that HSBC checked  its log-in records for that date.
HSBC provided its instructions for cancelling direct  debits  online. Once completed, there 
should be a banner confirming the cancellation. And active  direct debits and cancelled  direct 
debits are listed separately. So its possible  for a customer to see that a cancellation request 
has been processed. 
No doubt Mr C intended to cancel the direct debit.  But based on the available  evidence, I 
dont think I can reasonably find that he completed  the process to cancel the direct debit in 
September 2018. It follows that I dont find that HSBC made an error.
HSBC said the investigators recommendation that it pay compensation for its response to 
Cs complaint isnt reasonable. It says it sent a final response letter  the next day and isnt 
responsible if the letter  wasnt received. I agree with this. The letter  was correctly addressed.
Mr C says HSBCs  final response letter was only two sentences  long and was sent on the 
same or next day that he made his complaint. He says it cant have carried  out a full 
investigation in the available time. The final response letter  says HSBC had no record of 
Mr C cancelling the direct  debit. It gave a number to call to request a direct  debit indemnity 
claim. The letter is short, but I think the information provided was sufficient to explain what 
HSBC thought had happened and what steps  Mr C could take to try to recover the money. 
And at this point the direct  debit had been  cancelled. 
Its unfortunate that the final response letter went astray. But I dont think  the letter went  
astray due to an error by HSBC. 
Mr C now says he contacted HSBC multiple times  and it failed to post the final response 
letter to him multiple  times. But when he brought the complaint to us, Mr C said weeks went 
by after hed made his complaint (in early January 2019) and he hadnt heard anything. He 
said he then called HSBC  on two occasions.  He said he was told what  the content of the 
letter was and that the letter would  be re-sent. Mr C said he still didnt receive  the letter, so 
he called  his relationship manager  who sent the letter to him. 
HSBC says its records arent consistent with Mr Cs version of events. It doesnt have a 
record of Mr C contacting  it multiple times. It says Mr C contacted it on 12 February  2019  to 
say he hadnt  received  the final response  letter  and wanted to re-open his complaint.  HSBC 
says it sent a second final response  letter the next day.
I dont doubt that Mr C was caused some inconvenience in having to chase HSBC for a copy  
 whether this was on one or more  occasions.  But based on the available  evidence, I dont 
think I can fairly find that HSBC failed  to post letters to him on multiple occasions. Its 
unfortunate that HSBC couldnt  provide a copy of its letter when Mr C called in February 
2019. But HSBC  wrote the next day with a full response. I dont think this caused detriment 
to C. By this time the direct debit had been cancelled.  And Mr C says that HSBC made him 
aware of the content of the letter when he called.
Ref: DRN42988743I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances  to require HSBC to pay 
compensation for any loss or inconvenience  related to the direct debit not being cancelled in 
September 2018 or its final response  letter going  astray.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4298874