K821x#15complaint
Miss K complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt properly advise her 
that shed incur arrears  on her loans and her credit file would be affected  when she entered  
into a payment arrangement, during a period of financial difficulty. She also says it didnt give 
her proper information that after the payment arrangement ended  the arrears  would need to 
be repaid in full.
background
In November 2017 Miss K took out two loans with Halifax.
In February 2018  Miss K contacted Halifax to request repayment plans for each loan so she 
could make lower monthly payments as shed fallen into financial difficulties. The agent she 
spoke with arranged  this for her. But they didnt tell  her that this would adversely affect  her 
credit file or that shed incur arrears,  which shed need to pay in full after 3 months. She said 
she was told her loans  would be extended. But she wasnt  aware arrears would accrue or 
when her loan would end.
In June 2018 Miss K received a letter from Halifax. This letter asked her to contact it to 
discuss her options as her repayment plan had ended.  It also mentioned that the arrears that 
had accrued needed to be repaid. When she telephoned Halifax Miss K complained  that she 
hadnt been told that entering to a repayment plan would affect her credit file or cause 
arrears to accrue on her accounts because shed thought  the loan term would simply be 
extended. After  Halifax  investigated, it agreed  shed been given incorrect information about  
how a repayment  plan would affect  her loan and credit file. So it offered her £100  
compensation to reflect  the distress and inconvenience this had caused.
But Miss K rejected this compensation and brought her complaint to us. After  our adjudicator 
investigated, they thought  Halifax hadnt acted fairly or done enough to resolve  Miss Ks 
complaint. Miss K agreed with the adjudicators opinion but Halifax  didnt accept  the view.  
The complaints now been referred to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having carefully  considered everything 
Halifax and Miss K have  said here, I agree with the decision of our adjudicator for broadly 
the same  reasons. I know  that this will be disappointing to Halifax so Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute  that, during her telephone conversation with Halifax  in February  2018,    
Miss K was given incorrect information about  the impact a reduced payment plan would 
have on her loans  and credit file. It was on this basis that Halifax offered Miss K £100  to 
resolve her complaint.  What I must decide is whether this offer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Our adjudicator thought an additional  award  of £100 would more appropriately compensate 
Miss K for her experience and Miss K agreed. But Halifax  disagreed  and thought the £100  it 
had already offered was fair and reasonable here.
From looking  at Miss Ks loan statements I can see that in March,  April and May of 2018  she 
was making lower payments to both loans because of her repayment plan. In June 2018 she 
Ref: DRN49260922contacted Halifax  after she received  correspondence telling her that her repayment plan was 
due to end. She said she spent an excessive amount of time trying to reach collections in 
order to discuss her options prior to her repayment plan ending. I understand this was due to 
new systems  Halifax had implemented at the time.  But I can understand how frustrating that 
experience must have  been because she was trying to contact Halifax  after finding out for 
the first time that arrears  had accrued  on her loans and that they now had to be paid in full.
Miss K is unhappy that she hasnt received any formal confirmation as to how the arrears will 
be paid and what the new end date of the restructured loan will be. I can understand her 
concern here and I think its reasonable for her to want this information. It shouldve  been 
given to her as part of her repayment  plan so shed know the revised end date of each loan.  
Halifax has provided screen shots  of what it says Miss K would see when logging  onto 
internet banking. It says these would clearly show her the remaining term. But, those screen 
shots dont show  an exact end date for either loan. And because theres no end date, it isnt 
clear to see whether  the remaining term had been amended to reflect the repayment  plan 
Miss K entered into for each loan.
Miss K says she was assured by Halifax that it would send her documentation confirming the 
new loan schedule but she never  received anything. Ive seen a letter Halifax  sent to Miss K, 
dated 2 July 2018, but Im not satisfied this gave  her sufficient information of the end date of 
each loan. This isnt fair. She shouldve been informed of the exact dates for each revised  
loan. And I dont think she shouldve had to ask for this information on multiple occasions. 
Miss K said that as part of the resolution  to her complaint she wanted to know  if the staff 
member she spoke  with about  her repayment plan has been  spoken to or had been  given  
training. I understand that the adviser in question has received feedback  regarding  the 
advice they gave Miss K. I hope this reassures her that Halifax  has responded to this aspect 
of her complaint proactively and responsibly.  
Im pleased to see that Halifax  has removed adverse credit information from Miss Ks credit  
file. So, its resolved this part of Miss Ks complaint. While there  were  some delays in this 
information being removed from credit agencies  Ive seen evidence  that Halifax used its best 
efforts to proactively resolve  this part of Miss Ks complaint. 
Miss K said this adverse information caused  an application she made for car finance  to be 
declined. But Ive not seen any evidence that if this application was declined  it was due to 
the information Halifax had recorded.  I say this because Miss K had a lot of debt in addition 
to her two loans with Halifax with whom she had entered  into the repayment plan. So in view 
of her financial difficulties,  I think its unlikely the adverse credit information Halifax had 
recorded was the sole reason she couldnt obtain car finance. 
I realise all of this has been  very upsetting for Miss K. But, shes now in a better  position  
than she was before Halifax  recorded  the adverse information. I say this because  theres 
now no record of the repayment plan on her credit file and it wouldnt be unfair for a lender to 
place a marker on her credit file where  a repayment  plan has been entered  into.
 
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think Halifax acted fairly and I uphold this complaint. I 
dont think it did enough to resolve Miss Ks complaint and, like our adjudicator, I dont think 
the £100 compensation it offered Miss K adequately recognised the inconvenience and 
distress she was caused here. 
Ref: DRN49260923I can understand how frustrating it must have been when Halifax gave her incorrect 
information after shed  asked it to help her in financially difficult times. It was reasonable for 
her to trust and rely on the advice she was given and Halifax has already paid her £100 
because of this poor advice. But, Ive also thought  about the fact that despite repeated 
requests Halifax still hasnt provided  Miss K with written information  regarding when each 
loan is due to end. So, I think the additional  £100 compensation award suggested  by our 
adjudicator takes  into account the overall  circumstances  of what  happened  and is more 
appropriate here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint for the reasons stated above. Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) should  pay Miss K an additional £100 in compensation to 
resolve this complaint (taking the total amount to £200) and provide her with written 
documentation confirming  the status  of her loan accounts, how the arrears on the loans have 
been rescheduled and when each loan account is due to end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4926092