K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that FirstRand Bank Limited  (trading  as Motonovo  Finance) are requesting 
payment from him even  though he rejected the car.
background
In August  2018  Mr P was supplied  with a car and entered  into a hire purchase agreement 
with Motonovo.
On the day he collected  the car, Mr P noticed  it was mis-firing  and that warning lights  had 
illuminated. He took the car to a third party garage and had a diagnostic  carried  out which  
showed fault codes relating to mis-firing.
The following  day Mr P contacted the dealer to report the fault. The dealer said the car 
hadnt been faulty at the point  of supply. Mr P contacted Motonovo  and said he wanted  to 
reject the car. Motonovo told Mr P it would contact the dealer to start a return  of advance  
and asked Mr P to call back in 24 hours.
When Mr P called back he was advised to contact the dealer to arrange  to take the car back.  
Motonovo also advised Mr P that the dealer would decide whether the car was a rejection or 
not once he had taken the car back.
The following  day Motonovo contacted Mr P and told him it had spoken  to the dealer and 
that it was returning the advance. Motonovo advised  Mr P that this was on the condition that 
he returned the car to the dealer within 48 hours. Mr P agreed  to do this. When  Mr P 
returned the car to the dealer, it told him he needed  to provide a report  to show that the car 
had a fault before the rejection could go ahead.
Following this, the dealer arranged for a diagnostic to be carried out. It then contacted Mr P 
and said that because there were no faults with the car he would need to come and collect it.
Mr P didnt collect the car because he believed hed agreed a rejection. He didnt make  any 
payments under the agreement. In October  2018 he received a default notice informing him 
that if he didnt  pay the arrears  the agreement would be terminated.  Motonovo has said that 
because the arrears werent paid, the car was sold in November 2018.
Mr P complained to this service and the investigator  upheld the complaint.  The investigator 
didnt think it was fair that Mr P had been  advised that the rejection had been  agreed and 
then asked to collect the car. The investigator  said that Motonovo  should clear  the arrears,  
refund Mr Ps deposit and pay compensation.
Motonovo didnt  agree.  It said there were no faults with the car and therefore  no grounds to 
reject it. It also said that although Mr P was mis-advised about rejection, hed subsequently 
been asked to collect the car. It said it didnt think it should have to remove  the arrears 
because it was Mr Ps responsibility to maintain  payments  whilst  the complaint was ongoing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN48740482Ive listened to the telephone calls between Mr P and Motonovo.  Based on these, Im 
satisfied that Motonovo confirmed to Mr P that the return of advance  had been agreed.  
Theres nothing to suggest that Mr P didnt return the car promptly  or that the car was in a 
different condition to when it was supplied. Im of the view that Mr P should be allowed to 
rely on what Motonovo said to him about rejecting the car.
Its clear theres been a miscommunication here between the parties,  namely Motonovo  and 
the dealer. Based on what Ive seen,  I think Motonovo misadvised Mr P about the return  of 
advance. Mr P has relied on what Motonovo said to him, so I dont  think  hes done  anything 
wrong by not making payments. As far as Mr P was concerned, hed rejected the car.
Motonovo has acknowledged  that it misadvised Mr P but has said that he was sent a letter 
advising him that he needed  to collect the car. I dont think this changes anything  because 
the misadvice happened after the letter was sent to Mr P. So even if Mr P had been told to 
collect the car, the telephone conversation two days later was clear that the rejection had 
been agreed. I dont think its fair for Motonovo to go behind the telephone call in which  it 
confirmed agreement to return the advance.
Even though  the dealer  has provided a diagnostic  to show that there are no faults, this 
doesnt change  my view.  Ive got doubts about  the reliability of the dealers diagnostic  in any 
event, because it refers  to the presence of fault codes. I cant  be certain of whether the 
dealer carried out any repairs  to clear  the faults.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  FirstRand Bank Limited  must:
Clear the arrears with nothing for Mr P to pay
Refund the deposit together  with simple interest at 8% from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
Pay £100 for distress  and inconvenience
Remove any adverse  information from Mr Ps credit file
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4874048