K821x#15complaint
Miss S is unhappy that, when she made a claim on her motor insurance following an 
accident in which her car was written off, Tesco  Underwriting  Limited deducted £500 from 
the settlement  amount it offered her for pre-accident damage to the car.
background
Miss Ss car was written off following  an accident in November 2018.  
Initially, I understand Tesco valued  Miss Ss car at £745. But its engineer  said the car had 
pre-accident damage  and it would cost £1,000 to return  it to retail condition. So Tesco  
divided the engineers estimate of the repair costs in half and deducted £500 from the 
settlement value it offered Miss S. 
When Miss S said she was unhappy  with this, Tesco increased its valuation  to £970. But it 
still made the deduction of £500 for the pre-accident  damage.
Miss S didnt think this was fair and so complained to us. The investigator  who looked at 
Miss Ss complaint upheld it. Tesco disagrees  and so Miss Ss complaint has come to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Tescos engineer said Miss Ss car wasnt economic  to repair  and so it was written off. In this 
situation, Tescos liability  under  Miss Ss motor insurance policy  was limited to the market  
value of her car immediately before  the accident. Tesco valued  Miss Ss car at £970. 
My role isnt to value  Miss Ss car myself but to decide  if Tesco  valued it fairly  and 
reasonably. Our usual  approach in deciding this is to look at the relevant  trade guides for 
valuing second-hand  cars. We find these  reliable as theyre based on nationwide research of 
likely selling prices. I can see that, in reaching  its final valuation,  Tesco  looked at the 
relevant trade guides. Our investigator  also looked at these  guides  and thought  Tescos  
valuation was in line with them. Like our investigator, I think Tescos  final valuation  was fair 
and reasonable.
But, as Ive said, Tesco also made a further  deduction from the valuation  of £500 to cover 
the cost of repairing the pre-accident damage to the car that its engineer found.  And this is 
the main issue Miss Ss complaint is focussed on. 
Tescos engineers report said that to return the car to retail condition  would cost £1,000. It 
didnt give any detail  about what repairs were required  or how much  individual repairs  would  
cost.
For it to be fair and reasonable of Tesco to deduct  50% of the cost of the repairs  from the 
settlement amount it offered  Miss S, in these circumstances Id have to think it was likely the 
pre-accident damage  was such that it would affect the market value of Miss Ss car.
Ref: DRN45107682The engineers report said the pre-incident condition of Miss Ss car was average/poor, with 
a lot of old damage  around the bodywork and with the rear seats being in poor condition.  
Photographs of the car included in the engineers report show  some scratches to the 
bodywork. But Miss S says one of these scratches wasnt there when the car was recovered 
and was probably caused by the salvage company attaching tail lights, a strap and some 
ropes around the car when  it was taken away. So its not entirely clear if all the damage the 
engineer found  did pre-date  the accident.
Also, Miss Ss car was around  18 years  old at the time of the accident. Especially bearing in 
mind its age, I dont think Tesco has given me enough  to show  how the pre-accident 
damage its engineer  found when he inspected the car affected its market value or to explain 
why the £1,000 of repairs  he estimated were fair and reasonable and necessary  to bring it 
back to market value.  Because  of this, I dont  think its fair and reasonable for Tesco  to 
deduct half of this amount from the settlement offer its made to Miss S. And thats  why Im 
upholding this part of Miss Ss complaint.  
Miss S is also unhappy her £200 excess has been deducted from the settlement offer.  But 
this is standard  practice in this situation  and, under the terms of Miss Ss policy,  Tesco is 
entitled to do it. So I dont think its acted unfairly  or unreasonably by making that deduction. 
Depending on how liability for the accident  is decided, Miss S may be able to reclaim the 
excess from the third partys insurance. But this is something shed need to look into herself 
once liability  has been decided.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Miss Ss complaint and direct  Tesco  Underwriting 
Limited to pay Miss S £770 (being the amount of its final valuation of her car (£970) minus 
Miss Ss excess (£200)) in settlement of her claim for the November 2018 accident.
Tesco Underwriting Limited  must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  
we tell it Miss S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
* If Tesco Underwriting Limited  considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income  
tax from that interest, it should tell Miss S how much its taken off. It should also give Miss S a tax 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4510768