K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Santander UK Plc wrongly told them  they couldnt convert the 
interest only part of their mortgage  to a capital repayment basis. They ask for compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage with Santander UK Plc in 2013. The mortgage was on a 
part repayment and part interest only basis. Mr and Mrs W took out a fixed rate product that 
ended in September 2016.
Mr W says he asked Santander about converting  all of their mortgage onto a repayment 
basis. Mr W wasnt sure when the call took place, but thought  it was probably about 
September 2016, when the fixed rate product ended. He says Santander told him this wasnt 
possible. Recently,  Mr and Mrs W found out they could  have  done  this. They say they owe 
about £3-5,000  more  as a result of Santanders  error.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld,  saying:
Mr and Mrs W always had the option to convert the interest only part of their mortgage  to 
a repayment basis. Theyd have  had to apply for this and Santander would have had to 
check the repayments were affordable.
Santander couldnt find the call where Mr W says he was told he couldnt change the 
mortgage to a repayment basis.  It upheld the complaint and paid £150 compensation.
Santander had records of Mr and Mrs W calling  to make capital repayments to reduce  
the interest only part of the mortgage. Santander  didnt have  any record  of a discussion 
with Mr and Mrs W about converting  to full repayment basis. 
Santander sent information with annual mortgage statements saying its possible to 
change to full repayment basis. 
As there wasnt evidence  to support what  Mr and Mrs W said,  the adjudicator  said she 
couldnt recommend  that Santander pay further compensation.
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree.  They  said the credibility  of their account shouldnt  be dismissed 
because Santander  deleted the call recording. Mr and Mrs W said theyd put forward 
evidence of the conversation and it was for Santander to provide evidence to rebut  it. They 
said Santander upheld  the complaint, so its not for this service  to find differently. They said 
we should uphold the complaint and award  full redress. Mr and Mrs W said they had no 
reason to read the information sent with the annual statement  until recently when they 
decided to re-mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN43444722Mr and Mrs W say theyve provided prima  facie evidence  their recollection of the call with 
Santander  that they asked about converting the interest only part of their mortgage to a 
repayment basis and were told this wasnt possible.  Mr and Mrs W say I must uphold the 
complaint and award full redress unless Santander  can provide evidence to rebut  this. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Ws frustration that Santander cant provide a record   either a call 
recording or notes  of a discussion  about  converting the interest only part of their mortgage 
to capital repayment. But this doesnt  mean  I have to uphold the complaint. I have to decide 
what I think most likely  happened, based on the evidence that is available. 
Ive listened to the call made in early 2019  when Mr W raised  his complaint. He told the call 
handler hed called Santander about 18 months  to two years ago when his fixed  rate product 
had ended. He said hed asked about  changing  to a repayment basis. He says he was told it 
would require  a brand new product. He said he was told he couldnt  change the mortgage 
hed agreed to. Hed need to make a new application. 
I think Mr W did ask Santander  about  changing  to a full repayment basis. Its unfortunate that 
this isnt recorded in the notes for Mr and Mrs Ws account. But Im not persuaded Santander 
gave him incorrect information.
Santander says this isnt an unusual request and the call handler would know  how to 
respond. Of course,  this doesnt mean the call handler didnt  make  an error.  Ive also taken 
into account that Mr W had this conversation some time before he raised  the complaint. 
From what  Mr W said about  his recollection of the conversation, I think he was told hed 
need to go through an application process.  This is correct: Mr and Mrs W would have had to 
go through an application process and provide information so that Santander could assess  
whether the repayments would be affordable. 
Mr W also said he was told he couldnt  change to a repayment basis  as he was tied into a 
product. If so, this was wrong. But at the time Mr W says he had the call, his product had 
ended. So this wouldnt have stopped Mr and Mrs W applying to change to repayment  basis.
I dont think, based on the evidence available, that I can fairly find that Santander  told Mr and 
Mrs W they couldnt convert to a full repayment  basis. I think  its more  likely they were told 
this would require  a new application. 
Mr and Mrs W say they were worried about repaying the mortgage as they didnt have a 
repayment vehicle  in place. And they say they are out of pocket because  they didnt change  
to full repayment basis. I dont think it sufficiently clear that Mr and Mrs W were told they 
couldnt convert to a full repayment  basis. But if theyd wanted  to reduce their mortgage  
balance  and had available funds to do so  they could have made capital repayments. 
Between March  2015 and September 2016  they made capital repayments of about 
£100,000, reducing the interest only part of their mortgage from about £136,000 to £36,000.  
So I think they knew this was an option. 
When it responded to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, Santander said as it was unable to find any 
record of a discussion about changing  to full repayment basis it would take Mr and Mrs Ws 
word for it. It paid £150  by way of apology. I think this is fair.
Ref: DRN43444723I dont think its clear  that Santander gave Mr and Mrs W wrong information or that it caused 
them financial loss. In the circumstances, I dont think  its fair and reasonable to require 
Santander to pay further compensation.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4344472