K822xcomplaint
This complaint arises out a mortgage taken out with Barclays Bank UK PLC by an individual  
with a very similar name to the complainant, Mr K. Mr K is unhappy that when Barclays was 
trying to contact its borrower  about  the mortgage,  it mistook him for its customer  and wrote 
asking him for payment  proposals. Mr K, whose first language is not English, is represented 
here by his son-in-law,  Mr N.
background 
In 2017, Barclays  was having trouble locating one of its mortgage  customers;  using a tracing  
agency, it obtained the name and address of Mr K, and wrote  to him about  the mortgage.  
The problem was that Mr K wasnt the banks customer; its customer was a completely  
different individual. Receipt of the correspondence was very distressing for Mr K, who feared 
his details might have been used  fraudulently to obtain the mortgage. On his behalf, Mr N 
reported the matter  to the Police and complained to Barclays.
The complaint was referred  to us after Barclays wrote to Mr N saying it had no authority to 
discuss the mortgage with him. Our adjudicator established what had actually happened;  
that is, there  was no fraud  the mortgage  had been  taken out genuinely by another person. 
Mr K had been mistaken for the genuine  borrower due to the similarity of their names.  
Barclays has offered £150 compensation for the distress  caused by its error; our adjudicator  
thought this was fair in the circumstances, and recommended Mr K accept it.
Mr N has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He says Mr K has had 
to travel to his home country to renew all of his identity documents,  and remains concerned  
that Barclays might misuse his personal  data in future. Hes looking for a written  guarantee 
that this wont happen.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to say at the outset, that I do appreciate  what a horrible experience  this must have 
been for  Mr K. Hes a man of senior years, living away from his home country, and 
unfamiliar with the language. Receiving correspondence  about a debt of which he had no 
knowledge must have  been quite unnerving. 
But I also have to keep  in mind that Mr K isnt a customer  of Barclays,  and that imposes 
limits on our powers to consider his complaint.  Our rules allow  Mr K to complain that 
Barclays was seeking to recover money owed  under a credit agreement, even though he 
wasnt party  to the agreement. So Im able to consider the case only to the extent that it 
wrote to him about  someone elses debt. The bank  clearly  did something wrong, which its 
admitted to, and its offered compensation that, like the adjudicator, I think is about right for 
the mistake that was made.
I cant fairly find that Barclays should  meet  the cost of Mr K travelling  to his home country to 
renew his documents. Theres nothing in the evidence presented to me that suggests the 
bank advised  him to do that, and I reiterate  the point that no fraud  has taken place here.
Ref: DRN47127812As to what might  happen in future, Barclays has told us that, with Mr K not having any kind 
of customer relationship with it, theres  no reason for it to make use of any data it has about 
him, and indeed no mechanism for it to do so. But in any event, I can only deal with here 
with what has happened; I cant future proof Mr K against the risk that something else 
might happen in future.
If Mr K experienced something of a similar nature in future (I very much hope he doesnt) 
and he thought it was down to something Barclays had done,  then he could make a new 
complaint at the relevant  time and, if necessary, refer that complaint  here.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I 
direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr K £150. I make no other order or award. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K, or Mr N on 
his behalf) to accept  or reject  my decision before 7 April 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4712781