K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about advice he received from Portafina LLP to transfer a defined  
benefit occupational pension scheme  (OPS) he held with his former employer to a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  The funds within the SIPP  were then used to invest  in 
several unregulated  collective investment  schemes  (UCIS).
background
Mr P was introduced to Portafina in 2014 after hed been in contact with another  business, 
from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed  representative  
(AR) of a regulated  business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority to provide  investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to provide  
pension transfer  advice. 
Following several conversations with Mr P, including a call on in June 2014, Portafina  
produced a suitability report  setting out its advice. In summary the report  said:  
Mr Ps circumstances were:
-He was 56 years old, employed  and earning  approximately £28,000 a year
-He was divorced  with a non-dependent, adult  daughter
-He owned  his own home, with an outstanding  mortgage of £80,000
-He was in good health with an intended  retirement age of 65 
-He had cash savings  of £1,000 and no investments 
Regarding Mr Ps OPS:
-His preserved OPS  was projected to pay an income of £4,703  from age 60
-The scheme offered  a return of contributions on death of £1,613.55 
-The cash  equivalent transfer value (CETV) was £94,533.54
Mr Ps Main Stated Objectives  were:
 
-Would like later retirement  age to scheme  normal retirement age
-Lifetime Hurdle Rare  is acceptable
-Projected future returns are acceptable
-Willing to take more  risk
-Does not want an escalating annuity
-Death Benefits
-Wants ownership and control
-Possible inability to transfer if scheme is managed  by PPF
-Future drawdown (TFC at age 55/draw income)
-Specific investment  (move away from equity backed)
-Greater fund choice
It was noted under  Your Key Financial  Objectives  that Mr P wanted to take the 
maximum tax-free cash (TFC)  to invest in property.
Mr Ps risk profile suggested he was a balanced investor.  Based  on this risk 
classification, Portafina estimated a personal pension  would grow at a rate of 6.13%,  
not including  advice and plan charges.
Ref: DRN45879282The required growth rate (critical yield)  needed for a new personal pension  plan (PPP) 
to match  the benefits  Mr P was entitled  to through his OPS was 17.8%. But if Mr P 
used income drawdown to access benefits, instead of purchasing  an annuity, then over 
his lifetime the investment return needed to match  his OPS was 4.7% per year.
According to an accompanying fact find completed by Firm C, his only other pension 
provision was a SIPP  valued at £45,000.  He also had an outstanding loan on his car 
of £5,000.
The accompanying Transfer Value Analysis report (TVAS) showed  that, at the mid-
range of growth, the OPS would provide a tax-free  lump  sum of £21,205, with a 
reduced pension  of £3,256.
Although Portafina wasnt  providing  advice regarding where Mr Ps fund would be 
invested after a transfer  this would be given by Firm C  it set out its fund 
recommendations suggesting that, due to his risk profile,  Mr P invest  in the 
following assets:
Cash 10%
Equities 60%
Other Fixed Interest 12%
Secured Structured  Bonds 18%
Portafina explained that secured bonds werent regulated  collective investments and could 
only be recommended  by authorised and regulated independent financial advisers (IFAs)  
such as itself. It said that while secured bonds  werent covered by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS), its recommendations  relating to them were. It added that 
secured bonds  werent unstable and therefore  reduced the overall  volatility of Mr Ps portfolio
Having considered all the information,  Portafina recommended that Mr P transfer his OPS  to 
a SIPP.  Some of the reasons given for this were;
-A suitable model portfolio for Mr P could achieve targeted returns  of 6.13% 
before initial  and ongoing advice charges  and plan charges.
-Based  on the growth rate required as a result  of Mr P taking benefits via income 
drawdown it believed  a transfer was likely  to increase the overall pension  and tax 
free cash  benefits available to him.
-Transferring would  give Mr P ownership  and control over his retirement  fund
-If Mr P died in retirement, 100%  of the fund would be passed to named 
beneficiaries, free of tax.
-The potential for an enhanced annuity. Although he had no health issues  at 
present it was noted that this was an important consideration  for Mr P.
-The transfer would allow  him to draw  25% of the fund as tax free cash.
-Flexibility to draw an income  earlier or later than his OPS retirement date.
Ref: DRN45879283Prior to the transfer, the CETV was revalued  at £90,807.09, which resulted in a higher critical 
yield of 23.3%. Mr P signed a statement on 26 September 2014 that he had considered the 
new figures and still wanted  to proceed with the transfer.
The recommended  SIPP was established in 2014  and Mr P took his tax free cash  from the 
CETV before the fund was invested  by Firm C. According to a breakdown provided by Mr P, 
his pension was invested as follows:
UCIS
Brisa Investments  £6,300
Biomass Investments  £6,300 
UK Strategic  Residential  £6,300
Lakeview UK Holdings   £6,300
Real Estate Investments USA plc  £6,300 
Regulated investments
Marlborough ETF Global   £19,529.85
Thesis Spectrum Green  £3,253.99 
Thesis Spectrum Orange  £6,250.43 
In August  2017,  Mr P complained to Portafina  about the advice hed received  to transfer. He 
said the advice  was negligent  and unsuitable for someone with no investment experience, a 
medium attitude to risk and low capacity for loss. He also said that Portafina hadnt 
considered the suitability  of the underlying investments and left this to Firm C, although it 
knew that it was selling and promoting  non-standard investments.
He added that his fund was illiquid  and he had lost the value of the death benefit  of £31,500, 
which was the value of the UCIS  funds.
Portafina rejected  Mr Ps complaint,  stating that it had given suitable advice and provided all 
the required information to him. It said his objectives couldnt be met by remaining in the OPS.  
So the transfer was recommended as it thought the growth rate was achievable, but Portafina 
was not responsible for the underlying  investments, which were recommended  by Firm C.
Following this, Mr P contacted the service  in March 2018.
An adjudicator considered  the matter and concluded  that Mr Ps complaint should be 
upheld. He didnt  think Portafinas advice was suitable. In summary  his view said:
The critical yield of 17.8% required to match Mr Ps OPS  benefits was in excess of 
what he considered  to be reasonable. Existing rates at the time suggested a rate of 
4.4% was achievable.
Suitable advice  would have been to recommend not to transfer,  even if Mr P did want  
the tax free cash  to invest in property.
Mr P had informed the adjudicator that, had he been advised  not to transfer,  he 
wouldnt have gone ahead with it
Portafina disagreed  with the adjudicators findings and in summary said:
It had used the hurdle rate as a more  accurate  means of measuring the ceding 
scheme benefits. This required a growth  rate of 4.7%, which  was achievable when  
Ref: DRN45879284the benchmark model portfolio showed a rate of 6.13%.  Its own model portfolio had 
achieved a growth rate of 8.8% since the transfer, so the required rate could be 
achieved on the open market.
It was Firm Cs responsibility to ensure that the SIPP  was invested in line with Mr Ps 
attitude to risk.
Portafina carried out extensive due diligence on Firm C and satisfied itself that it could 
be used in the advice process to introduce  clients and provide investment advice. 
Portafina had robust  systems and controls  in place and conducted regular  file 
reviews to ensure  that any third parties used were appropriate.  The fact that Firm C 
was regulated, further assured Portafina of its suitability to provide investment advice. 
Mr P needed the tax free cash  to buy property and he was very eager  to proceed.  
The maximum tax free cash wasnt available by remaining  with his OPS, which would 
require him to wait until 60, or take a reduced  lump sum and income.
Death benefits  were important to him and he wanted to leave his pension  to his 
daughter, which wouldnt have been  possible in the OPS.
The adjudicator didnt change his opinion and noted  that although Portafina had used the 
lifetime hurdle rate, the critical  yield is a measure of whether the transfer  offers value for 
money, which is why Portafina should have said the transfer was poor value. 
Following this, Portafina provided  a copy of the call recording from 16 June 2014.  They  
summarised the call with the following  points:
1.Main objective is to release tax-free cash - invest into property (11 out of 10 for 
importance) 
2.This pension was a surprise as only expected it to be worth  several  thousand 
pounds, so was not part of the retirement  planning.
3.Critical yield is irrelevant as the client wants tax-free cash  and to reinvest the residual 
(drawdown)  therefore growth rate required is 4.7%
4.Client is divorced and has children, so the death  benefit is a major consideration - 
wants it to be left to daughter
5.Prepared to accept reduction  - 10/20%
The complaint has been passed  to me to reach  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing this, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the relevant time. Having done 
so, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN45879285Portafina recommended that Mr P transfer his OPS to a SIPP.  But it says that it didnt 
provide advice as to the investments within the SIPP because  this was being  provided by 
Firm C. So in the suitability letter, Portafina based its recommendation on an example 
portfolio for a balanced  risk investor.
Mr P accepted the recommendation and Portafina  arranged for the SIPP  to be set up, the OPS 
to be transferred and for the funds to be fully invested in cash.  Shortly  after this was completed, 
the servicing rights for the SIPP were transferred to Firm C. Firm C subsequently arranged for 
the SIPP funds  to purchase  a number of investments,  five of which were unregulated. 
Ive thought about this carefully.  Even if it wasnt specifically intending to advise  on the 
investments, Portafina needed to have an awareness of the intended investments. This 
remains the case even  if Firm C was actually providing that advice. This is a fundamental 
requirement of advising  on a transfer  into a SIPP. Portafina cant  say that its only 
responsible for the SIPP transfer itself;  it needed to have an understanding  of the proposed 
investments before it could determine  the transfer was in Mr Ps best interest. 
In 2013, the regulator  at the time issued an alert about advising on pension  transfers with 
a view to investing  pension monies  into unregulated products through  a SIPP.  This alert 
was issued because  it had come to the regulators notice that some firms were adopting 
advice models which  didnt comply with the existing obligations and so there was a 
potential for consumer detriment. 
The regulator made its position clear  in the alert,  where it said:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires consideration 
of the other investments  held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product 
which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such  as SIPPs  and other wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated  schemes. It should  be particularly clear  
to financial advisers  that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
implementing a wider  investment  strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating ()
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated 
items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated  elements
In the scenario set out in this alert, the other firm involved  was unregulated. In Mr Ps 
case, Firm C was authorised to conduct investment business under its AR agreement  
with Firm S. Portafina may believe that this absolved it from its duty to assess  the 
suitability of the investments, particularly as it may have said to Mr P that it wasnt 
providing any advice  on the underlying investments as Firm C was doing that. But the 
update makes it clear  that it wasnt open to Portafina  to provide advice on a restricted  
basis. It couldnt separate out the two elements; its advice on the suitability of the 
transfer had to include the suitability  of the underlying  investments. 
Ref: DRN45879286The position  on this is further supported by a subsequent alert issued by the regulator,  on 
28 April 2014, regarding  pension  transfers  and switches. Again, this alert didnt follow  the 
introduction of new regulations but restated the existing  position. The regulator  said it was 
alerting firms to our requirements  when they give advice on self-invested personal  
pensions (SIPPS), giving our view and key messages . It included  the following: Where a 
financial adviser recommends a SIPP  knowing that the customer  will transfer  or switch  
from a current pension  arrangement to release  funds to invest through  a SIPP,  then the 
suitability of the underlying investment must  form part of the advice  given to the customer. 
If the underlying investment is not suitable  for the customer, then the overall  advice is not 
suitable. If a firm does  not fully understand the underlying investment proposition  
intended to be held within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer 
or switch  at all as it will not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole. 
The alert went on to reiterate that suitable advice generally required consideration of the 
overall transaction, that is the vehicle, the wrapper  and the expected  underlying investments 
and whether or not such investments were regulated products. It said, despite the initial alert 
(in January 2013), some  firms continued to adopt  a model which  purportedly  restricted 
advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. But advising on the suitability of a pension transfer 
or switch  couldnt reasonably be done without considering the existing pension  arrangement  
and the underlying investments intended to be held in the SIPP. 
Im conscious that both the 2013  and 2014 alerts  were  issued  prior to Mr P receiving advice  
and so Portafina ought to have known that it needed  to do this. 
As it told Mr P it wasnt providing any advice on the underlying investments, Portafina 
appears to have been under the impression that this enabled  it to provide advice on a 
restricted basis; this wasnt right. It couldnt  separate out the two elements. Its advice on the 
suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability  of the underlying  investments. I dont 
think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position  on the matter.
These alerts dont have  the status  of a Handbook rule as such,  nonetheless I consider it to 
be a relevant indicator of the standards expected by the regulator  in these circumstances, as 
well as a helpful  indicator  of what good  industry practice looked like at the time.   And both 
alerts specifically referred to the regulators overarching  Principles  for Businesses (PRIN) 
and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which Portafina was subject to. And with reference 
to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations  under these 
precepts if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy and that it wouldnt 
be able to recommend  a new product,  like a SIPP, without doing so.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to Mr 
P under the regulatory system. So, even if it said it was operating  under a limited retainer, 
this didnt absolve it of its duty of care to ensure  the advice it was providing was suitable   
again, this had to include consideration of how Mr Ps funds  would be invested.
Ref: DRN45879287COBS 9.2 required  Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mr P. To achieve  this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portafina had to obtain  enough  
information from Mr P to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could  bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these  objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the transaction.  COBS 9.2.2R 
included the following wording:
() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client  must include, where 
relevant, information  on the length of time for which he wishes  to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile,  and the purposes of the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process  Portafina had to understand Mr Ps objectives  some 
of which  were recorded as being willing to take more  risks, have greater fund choice and 
make specific investments  and the related risks. It wasnt free to ignore how Mr Ps funds 
were going  to be invested irrespective of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying 
investments in the SIPP to be inextricably linked to the risks relating to the SIPP. So 
assessing the risk and suitability of a transfer without knowing what Mr P would invest  in 
within the wrapper,  doesnt in my mind seem reasonably possible.
After Portafina gave advice the agency  for Mr Ps SIPP was transferred to Firm C and it was 
Firm C that recommended  the high risk and Illiquid investments. However, the alerts make it 
clear that a firm that is asked to advise on a pension  transfer needs to be aware of the 
intended investments  before it advises on the transfer, in order to provide suitable advice. 
So, Portafina shouldve  requested this information  from Firm C before providing advice. And, 
as confirmed in the alert, if it didnt fully understand the underlying investment proposition  
intended to be held within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or 
switch at all. 
The regulators rules do allow for situations  where two regulated  firms are involved. In 
particular, the rules state: 
COBS 2.4.6R(2). 
A firm will be taken to be in compliance  with any rule in this sourcebook that requires 
it to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on 
information provided to it in writing by another person.
COBS 2.4.8G
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance  with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a 
firm to rely on information provided to it in writing by an unconnected 
authorised person or a professional firm, unless it is aware or ought  
reasonably to be aware of any fact that would give reasonable  grounds to 
question the accuracy  of that information.
These rules  essentially mean  that a firm can rely on information provided to it by 
another regulated firm, where it is reasonable to do so. The rule is stated to apply 
to situations where  a firm is required by a handbook  rule to obtain the information in 
question from another  person.  However,  in this case, Portafina failed to obtain any 
information from Firm C about the intended  investment proposition  for Mr P.  
Ref: DRN45879288I accept that as a result  of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice.  However, I dont agree  that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As 
Mr Ps appointed financial adviser,  it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable 
advice and act in Mr Ps best interests. And as Ive said,  this had to include an awareness of 
where Mr Ps funds would  be invested. 
Portafina may have  completed due diligence checks on Firm C before agreeing to 
accept client referrals  from it. But it wasnt  enough  for it to rely on general 
information provided to it at the start of its relationship with Firm C; that wouldnt 
have been a reasonable basis for Portafina  to have  assessed the suitability of the 
pension transfer  for Mr P.   In my view,  it shouldve done more  to ensure it 
understood the types of investments Firm C would  be recommending,  and in 
particular in connection with Mr Ps proposed  transfer. I wouldve expected  
Portafina to request details upfront from Firm C as to the intended  portfolio for Mr P 
and Firms  Cs risk rating  for him. It appears  Firm C completed a financial  planning 
questionnaire with Mr P some months  before Portafina issued its suitability  report. 
So I think its likely Firm C already knew  which investments it was going  to be 
recommending. And without this information, Im not satisfied that Portafina could 
reasonably assess  the suitability  of the transfer.
Had Portafina requested this information and it had been advised that Firm C intended to 
invest Mr P in a number of UCIS, then it couldve questioned this, given how at odds it was 
with his established attitude to risk. And in the event  that Portafina  had been misled by Firm 
C as to the proposed investments, then its likely Mr P wouldve realised that the investments 
Firm C went on to arrange differed to those Portafina had based its suitability assessment 
on. And Mr P couldve taken action accordingly.
Im conscious that, despite Portafina  saying  that Firm C was to provide the investment 
advice, it did set out in in its suitability report its recommendations  for the asset  classes Mr P 
should invest in and to what extent. The recommendations  made up a model portfolio for a 
balanced investor, which Portafina  satisfied  itself Mr P was. 
However, I dont agree  Portafinas model  portfolio was suitable for Mr Ps attitude  to risk in 
any event. I say this because the model portfolio suggested that 18% of the pension  fund 
should be invested in secure structured bonds . These are described  in the suitability report  
as asset back debt securities that are issued  for a fix term. The report  goes on to explain that 
these are not covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). And that 
there are credit risks - due to the possibility of the company borrowing the money going into 
default - and liquidity  risks. In my view,  this puts them at the higher end of the risk spectrum  
and would generally mean that theyre unsuitable for an inexperienced investor,  with a fairly 
modest pension fund. So, Im not satisfied that a portfolio that wouldve invested 18% of 
Mr Ps pension  fund in unregulated and potentially illiquid funds,  wouldve  been suitable for a 
client in Mr Ps position. 
I think its also important to highlight  that, as Ive said above, this model portfolio 
recommended an asset allocation  with 18% of the pension held in secured structured bonds, 
which are unregulated. This was virtually  identical to the level of investment in UCIS which  
Firm C eventually  chose,  that being  19%.  Based on this, its difficult  for Portafina to argue 
that Firm C hadnt followed the risk classification that it had used, when  its model portfolio 
was so close to the actual  portfolio  Firm C recommended.
Ref: DRN45879289What was Portafina required  to do?
Regardless of anyone elses part in the matter Portafina had to follow the relevant rules  set 
out by the regulator. These  include the overarching Principles for Businesses. Principles  1 
(integrity),  2 (skill, care and diligence), 6 (customers interests ) and 9 (reasonable care)  are 
of particular relevance here.
The Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook, set out 
the rules regulated businesses have to follow. At the relevant time, COBS 9.2.1R 
required Portafina to take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation was suitable for Mr P. It had to obtain information as to Mr Ps 
knowledge and experience (relevant  to the specific type of designated investment), 
his financial situation  and investment objectives.
As set above, COBS  9.2.2R required Portafina  to gather sufficient information from Mr P to 
ensure the recommendation met his objectives,  he could bear the risks involved and he 
had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the 
transaction.
Under COBS 2.1.1R Portafina had to act honestly, fairly and professionally  in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
The advice  to transfer 
Having considered whether, in recommending the transfer, Portafina reasonably had regard 
to the expected investment proposition for Mr P as a whole, Ill now consider whether the 
transfer ought to have  been recommended in any event. In other words, even if Portafina 
had considered the intended investments, was the transfer likely to have been  suitable for 
Mr P in any event?
OPS typically have  significant benefits  and guarantees. Giving up the benefits and 
guarantees available under an OPS, and subjecting future pension  income  to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns,  should only be done where it can be 
shown that it was clearly  in the best interests of the consumer. 
The COBS  guidance  (COBS19.1.6G) at the time of the advice, stated:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  whether to transfer,  convert or opt-out, a firm should  start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should  only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence,  
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's  best interests.
Given what the regulator says, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
Therell need to be good reasons why a transfer  will be in the consumers best interests.  And 
generally, a transfer  will only be in the consumers  best interests if theres  a reasonable 
prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer  will 
also need to be suitable, taking into account  the individuals particular circumstances.
Ref: DRN458792810At the time of Portafinas advice Mr P was 56 years  old, employed and in good health. He 
was a standard retail investor with nine years until he intended to retire and four years until 
his OPS benefits were  payable. In addition to his OPS  and state pension  entitlement,  he had 
a personal pension valued  at £45,000,  approximately half the value of his OPS CETV. Mr P 
had minimal  savings and no investments and although he was a home owner, he had an 
outstanding amount on his mortgage,  along  with a car loan.  
Mr Ps OPS was a substantial and significant  asset and was only exceeded in value by the 
equity in his home. It provided a guaranteed income at retirement, along with a tax-free lump 
sum if required. Based on this, I think Portafina should have recognised the significance of 
Mr Ps OPS and proceeded with caution.
Transferring his OPS  meant  that Mr P would be losing his guarantees and instead  relying  on 
investment performance  from a new scheme. But I dont think his situation lent itself to taking 
such risks.  I think it shouldve been  clear that while Mr P may have been open  to taking 
some risk, he wasnt able to take a significant amount. 
Based on a risk profile Mr P completed,  Portafina said it believed  he had a balanced  attitude  
to risk. Mr P also stated  that he had a medium (i.e. balanced) attitude to risk in his complaint. 
However, he also stated that his actual capacity for loss was low and I am inclined to agree 
with this. While a consumer may indicate  theyre  prepared to take investment risk, this 
willingness isnt the only factor to consider in providing suitable  advice,  nor does it 
fundamentally alter their capacity to accept losses  the degree  of risk Mr P was in a position 
to take was a key consideration. 
The OPS  was Mr Ps only source  of guaranteed income outside of the state pension and, at 
£4,705, was projected to pay as much as 50% of the income which  his state  pension  would 
provide (based on current levels). This was payable from age 60, a full six years before he 
could take his state pension. The cash value of his other personal pension was relatively  
small by comparison and offered no guarantees. As such, any losses to this pension  would 
have a significant impact  upon his long-term retirement income. 
He had no investments  and a limited time to replace any significant losses  to his OPS, as 
although his desired retirement age was 65, the OPS would start to pay at age 60. I accept 
that Mr P was using  his tax free cash to purchase a buy to let property, which  would provide 
an additional  source of income, but this was not guaranteed when it was dependent  upon  
finding a tenant and any costs of upkeep or repairs would need to be met from rent. 
Furthermore, as Mr P has confirmed the total purchase price of the property was £45,000,  
the level of income  generated  would  not be large.
Given these factors, I do not believe that Mr P was in a position to be able to expose  his 
OPS benefits to anything other than a low level of risk in the short time before they were due 
to become payable.
Ref: DRN458792811Portafina also didnt  appear to establish  what Mr Ps future liabilities  and income 
requirements were likely to be. So Portafina  couldnt say with confidence  that transferring 
was necessary to meet  his future  income needs  or that he wasnt  likely  to be heavily 
dependent on his OPS  in retirement. Furthermore,  it didnt  establish  why Mr P didnt want to 
take his OPS from age 60 when there was no obvious benefit in delaying  taking the income. 
As this was a final salary  scheme, the level of income payable  was driven by Mr Ps length of 
service and had automatic revaluations  until it became  payable.  As revaluations would  
merely seek to offset the effects of inflation on the pension, there was no benefit by leaving it 
invested for longer  and any growth  would  be minimal in real terms. 
Any potential for additional growth  by transferring and investing for longer  had to be offset by 
the very real loss of income  by delaying taking an income from age 60. Based on the figures  
provided by the TVAS,  this could be as much  as £4,703 a year,  or £23,515 in total by age 65 
before any indexation was factored in. 
An important part of assessing the viability of an OPS transfer, is a careful analysis of the 
investment returns required from any investments in the receiving scheme, to match (let 
alone exceed)  the benefits  that are being  given up by transferring  out of the OPS.  And that 
needs to be done in conjunction with other important considerations, including  the investors  
attitude to risk, financial circumstances and objectives.
Under COBS 19.1.2, the regulator  required a business arranging a pension transfer to:
1.compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension  scheme with the benefits afforded by a personal pension  scheme  or 
stakeholder pension scheme,  before  it advises  a retail client to transfer out of a 
defined benefits  pension scheme;
2.ensure that that comparison includes enough  information for the retail client to be 
able to make an informed decision;
3.give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the client's  attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firms  advice,  no later than when the key features 
document is provided; and
4.take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firm's  comparison 
and its advice.
COBS 19.1.3 goes on to say that in particular the comparison should:
1.take into account all of the retail  client's relevant circumstances;
2.have regard to the benefits and options  available  under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing  them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
3.explain the assumptions on which it is based  and the rates  of return  that would have 
to be achieved to replicate  the benefits  being given up; and
4.be illustrated on rates  of return which take into account the likely expected returns of 
the assets in which  the retail client's funds will be invested.
Ref: DRN458792812Portafinas advice  was given at a time when  there  were no industry  standard  projection rates to 
assess the likelihood of the critical yield being  achieved. But at the time the regulators assumed 
future growth rates for personal  pension illustrations  were 2% (low); 5% (intermediate); and 8% 
(high). Whilst advisers weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice  on pension 
transfers, I consider  they provide a useful indication of what  growth rates  would have been 
considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
In terms of the investment risk Mr P would be taking on by transferring, Portafina  produced  a 
Transfer Value  Analysis  (TVAS)  report. This showed  the critical yield required to match 
benefits from the OPS  was 17.8%.  This was already high and highly unlikely to be 
achievable at any level of risk, however, the revaluation of the CETV prior to transfer  at 
£90,807.09 resulted in an even higher critical yield of 23.3%.
Mr P signed  a declaration, provided  by Portafina, that he had taken into consideration the 
new figures and still wanted  to proceed, but this does not change the fact that the level of 
growth needed to match  the scheme benefits was clearly unachievable.
Im also mindful that Portafinas critical yield calculation was based  on Mr Ps full transfer 
value. Therefore, it didnt  include any provision for initial and ongoing advice plan or other  
charges. As a result,  I think  the growth required to just match  the benefits Mr P would be 
giving up was understated, even at 23.3%. 
Portafina based its recommendation on the lifetime hurdle rate of 4.7% instead of the critical 
yield, saying that Mr P preferred the idea of drawdown and the flexibility  of varying  his 
income, rather than the annuity option.  
I dont agree with Portafinas position here and think it tends to underplay the importance of 
the critical yield and overstates the significance of the hurdle  rate. This hurdle rate of 4.7% 
was also based  on the initial, higher, CETV. Once this had been reduced,  the hurdle rate 
would have had to increase, although this was not documented  on the statement Portafina 
provided for Mr P to sign. Furthermore, the hurdle rate didnt allow for any associated  charges.
Bearing this in mind, a growth rate of approximately 6% would be more  realistic. This level of 
growth is higher  than the regulators intermediate rate of 5% for medium risk investors  and is 
therefore greater  than the level of growth  Mr P could expect to achieve  without  taking on 
more risk than he had the tolerance or capacity to accept.
Portafina have  stated that their model portfolio projected a growth rate of 6.13%, but this was 
before initial  and on-going advice charges and plan charges were taken into account. The 
Annual Management Charge (AMC) for the SIPP was recorded as 0.5% on the report  and 
although Firm Cs were not listed, similar  cases involving the same firm have confirmed their 
AMC was also 0.5%.  With this in mind,  the model portfolio growth rate would be closer to 5% 
and therefore  lower than the hurdle rate. In any event, the SIPP was not going to be invested 
in line with Portafinas model,  meaning  that the model projection is not particularly relevant.
Portafina maintain  that Mr P understood why it was relying on the hurdle rate and agreed 
that it was right for it to assume  hed take benefits  from his fund via income drawdown. 
Having listened  to the telephone call Portafina had with Mr P about this, there  was no 
conversation about how this would work  in practice. There was no discussion about  how 
much income Mr P would need and whether this would vary, or why. As he only had limited 
alternative pension  provision,  he would be reliant  upon his OPS to provide a regular income 
for the rest of his life and would be highly unlikely to be in any position to be able to take a 
lower income at any time.
Ref: DRN458792813Portafina also repeatedly referred to annuities as being  poor value during the call, and it 
seems to me that Mr P was largely  led to accept this as fact, as opposed  to it being a view 
he formed himself.  Early  in the call, the representative explains that the critical yield is:
 obviously  a very high figure to reach, but  thats the critical yield including  buying you 
an annuity at retirement.  Annuity rates are absolutely terrible  at the moment  theyre such  
poor value  for money . Later in the call the representative says Annuities, as I say theyre 
not particularly  good value for money,  can we assume youre unlikely to ever purchase an 
annuity with the fund and youd rather keep the fund invested?
It was stated that the hurdle rate of 4.7%  was an awful lot easier to try and get and that if 
Mr P took his income via drawdown he could  access the benefits flexibly. At no point did 
Mr P say in his own words  why he wouldnt want to purchase an annuity  or why income 
drawdown was his preference. Nor was there  anything to indicate that he understood why 
the hurdle rate was the most appropriate  method of comparing the OPS and the SIPP  
Portafina was recommending. Mr P seemed to simply  accept what  Portafina was saying.
Based on the call recording, the hurdle rate was used because  it was lower  than the critical 
yield and therefore  achievable. The customers means of accessing his pension  benefits was 
driven by whether Portafina could claim to be able to meet the growth  rate, rather than Mr P 
explaining how he intended to take his benefits  and the adviser then investigating  if the 
relevant growth  rate was achievable. 
Im also mindful that when  discussing the possibility of accessing tax free cash  early,  
Portafina said to Mr P that thered  been some talk about the government seeking to limit or 
ban this benefit. Theres  been some talk that the government might seek to limit or ban tax 
free cash, how much  of a concern is that to you?
Mr P said it would be, however I dont think the way Portafina positioned this subject lent 
itself to Mr P being able to consider the matter  in a balanced way. The context Portafina 
provided seems to me to have suggested to Mr P that taking immediate action to secure the 
early tax free cash option was something  he might need to make a decision about at the 
time, or run the risk of losing the opportunity  entirely.  The adviser also referred to the fund 
being overvalued at the moment and that if he was looking to transfer now would be the 
time to do it. I dont think the adviser was right to comment in this way and consider  that in 
doing so Portafina fell short of its duty to present information to Mr P in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way.
While there  is no doubt that the consumer liked the idea of leaving  as much as possible to 
his daughter on death, this had to be weighed against the likelihood of this happening  early 
enough to be a significant benefit,  along with the actual benefits being given up. His 
daughter was not financially dependent upon  him and his mortgage was covered by a life 
policy. So she would already be receiving a significant legacy  in the form of property. The 
longer he lived,  the more  of his pension he would spend, thereby reducing the fund which 
could be passed  on. In order  for his daughter to receive a large lump sum, Mr P would have 
to die in the early  years  of his retirement and there is no reason to believe this was likely.
Ref: DRN458792814While I can appreciate Mr P wanting  to pass on as much money as possible  to his daughter 
at death, the main  purpose for a pension is to provide an income in retirement. Other  
considerations, like death benefits,  are secondary to that, particularly when there was 
nothing to suggest Mr P was in ill health, such that it wasnt  expected  that his pension  fund 
would need to support him for a long time.  The business shouldve  advised against 
transferring and risking  a lower standard of living just to provide a larger  inheritance which  
was not needed by his daughter  and was likely to have been used up by Mr P in his 
retirement anyway.
I am aware  that, based on the call and comments on the fact find document, Mr P viewed 
this pension as somewhat  of a bonus to his existing arrangements,  as he had largely 
forgotten that he had it, or at least did not expect  the CETV  to be as high as it was. This 
doesnt mean that the adviser shouldve treated it differently to any other  defined  benefits 
pension held by a consumer. Mr P was 56, with at most ten years  until retirement. If the OPS 
was removed from consideration, Mr P had very little in the way of pension  provision. He had 
one personal pension valued at £45,000 which would realistically provide no more than 
£1,500 to £2,000  a year in retirement.  He could  expect  a combined pension  income  of less 
than £900 a month from state and personal pensions, less than half of his current employed  
income. This was never explained to him.
Rather than view the OPS  as a windfall  of tax-free  cash, the consumer should have been 
made aware  that the scheme  offered him an opportunity to provide a more secure retirement, 
rather than being  almost entirely  reliant  upon  state  benefits. Portafina didnt do this.
I accept that Mr P did have a genuine desire  to access the tax free cash that transferring  his 
OPS into a SIPP would provide, as he wanted to purchase  a buy to let property. However, the 
level of extra cash that this would provide, as opposed to staying  in his scheme, was minimal.
Had he received  the original CETV  of £94,533, the 5% commission  charged by Portafina 
would have reduced this to £89,806,  giving a tax free sum of £22,451. As it was, the reduced  
transfer value  of £90,807.09 (after 5% commission) provided approximately  £21,566 in tax 
free cash  (£86,266 @ 25%).
According to the TVAS  figures, had he remained in his OPS, Mr P would have been able to 
take tax free cash  of £21,705  and a reduced annual  pension  of £3,256 from age 60. 
Therefore, had he been willing to wait until age 60, he would have  got a higher level of tax 
free cash  than he actually  received from his transferred funds, plus the security of a 
guaranteed indexing income for the rest of his life. I cant see any evidence  that Mr P was 
made aware  of this.
This wouldve meant waiting an additional four years before he got access to the cash, but this 
would not have automatically meant that the desired property purchase would also have  to 
have been delayed. Mr P could  have  taken a mortgage, purchased  a cheaper property, or 
taken his scheme benefits early at a reduced  level. Mr P may have accepted or rejected any 
one of these options, but he was not given any choice in the matter  and appears  to have gone 
into the transfer believing that this was the only means of funding  his property purchase.
Although I appreciate retirement planning  may have regard for an individuals general 
preferences, its primary focus  should  be a consumers personal  circumstances with a view to 
putting them  in the best possible  position at retirement, with the appropriate income 
provision in place  long-term. 
Ref: DRN458792815So, it wasnt  Portafinas role to simply justify and make  the transfer happen because it met 
Mr Ps immediate  goal of releasing cash and providing a notionally  higher death benefit. It 
had a responsibility to challenge these objectives and not accept them at face value. I cant  
see that it did this and I dont think the consumer was provided  with a clear  picture  of the 
extent of what was available under his OPS, compared to the perceived benefit of 
transferring. So overall, Im not satisfied Portafinas reasons for recommending  the transfer  
were appropriate.  
Regarding the risks associated with its recommendation, I do accept that Portafina covered 
some of these. However, disclosure isnt the same as suitability and in my view Portafina 
shouldnt have gone on to recommend the transfer. 
I dont think the advice for Mr P to transfer was suitable and think it presented a level of risk 
above what he shouldve  been advised  to take.  Accordingly, I dont  think it was in his best 
interests. Although  Portafina provided Mr P with information about the transfer, I dont 
believe it was as clear, comprehensive and balanced as it needed to be for him to make  an 
informed decision about whether to transfer .
Under COBS 19.1.6 (3) the regulator  says a firm should only consider  a transfer to be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate,  on contemporary evidence  that the transfer  is in the 
clients best interests. Im afraid I dont think Portafina met this test in this case.  I dont agree 
that making the recommendation on the basis that it met Mr Ps recorded objectives was 
enough. In my view,  if Mr P had been  properly  informed of the benefits he was relinquishing 
in the form of clear  projections and comparisons with what  might be available  via income  
drawdown or an annuity purchase at relevant intervals, I think  it wouldve been clear  the 
transfer wasnt in his best interests. 
Would Mr P have gone ahead  anyway?
Ive thought about whether, if hed been  correctly advised by Portafina  not to transfer, Mr P 
would have gone ahead with the transfer  anyway.  Having carefully considered  all the 
circumstances in this case, I dont believe  he would.  Mr P went  ahead with the transfer  on 
the understanding that he was unlikely to be financially disadvantaged  in the long term. 
Despite the caveats, the tenor of both the telephone call and the written report were that the 
rate of growth needed  to match his OPS benefits  was low and easy  to achieve. The report 
went as far as stating  that Mr P could  even expect a higher level of income in retirement by 
transferring out of his OPS.  we believe that a transfer could be able to increase the 
overall pension  and tax free cash benefits  available to you.. This presented a win-win  
scenario to the consumer of getting  higher  tax free cash immediately, along with more 
money in retirement  that most people would find appealing.
Had he been made aware of the, more  likely,  prospect  that he would suffer  a reduced  
standard of living in retirement through receiving  less income after transferring and that his 
objectives could  largely be met by remaining within his scheme, I do not believe that he 
would have gone against the advisers recommendation.
Had he been appropriately advised,  I think its more  likely that Mr P would have chosen to 
maintain his OPS  when  the only strong motivation  for transferring, accessing tax free cash, 
actually provided  less money than was projected  to be paid by staying with the scheme.
Ref: DRN458792816As a professional adviser  which unlike Firm C was authorised to provide transfer advice, 
Portafinas recommendation  wouldve  carried significant weight and could, I believe, have 
dissuaded Mr P from proceeding with the transfer  and subsequent investments.  I accept  its 
possible Mr P may still have wanted to go ahead anyway. But I think, at the very least, if 
Portafina had advised against  this, that would  have made him think  about things. 
Alternatively, had Mr P proceeded against such advice,  Portafina couldve discharged its 
professional responsibility  to him appropriately. For example, it couldve treated him as an 
insistent client. However,  theres nothing  to indicate Mr P was acting against the advice hed 
been given.
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Mr P are as a result of the inappropriate 
advice provided  by Portafina. And had it not been  for this unsuitable advice, I dont  believe 
he would  have gone ahead with the transfer of his OPS or allocated  more than half of his 
investments in UCIS. 
Is Portafina wholly responsible for Mr Ps loss?
Im satisfied that the advice Portafina  provided  was unsuitable and the losses  suffered 
by Mr P are as a result of its inappropriate advice to him to transfer  his OPS to a SIPP.  
And had it not been for this unsuitable advice, Mr P wouldnt  have been in a position to 
invest as he did through  Firm C. Because  of this I consider Portafina wholly 
responsible for Mr Ps resulting losses.
Im not asking Portafina to account  for loss that goes beyond  the consequences of its 
failings. Im satisfied those failings have caused  the full extent of the loss in question. I 
recognise that Firm Cs actions may also have contributed  to Mr Ps loss. So I have  
considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for compensating the 
loss to Portafina. In the circumstances, though, I think its fair to make an award for the 
whole loss against Portafina.
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were  in a business  relationship  
in which  each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring  about  a single 
outcome for clients  pension-release advice and investment.  Because Firm C wasnt  
authorised to advise  about the transfer  of deferred OPS  benefits, it referred Mr P to 
Portafina. Portafina advised Mr P to transfer  to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP  and arranged for 
the OPS. I acknowledge that Firm C advised  Mr P to invest a significant  share  of his SIPP 
funds in UCIS. But, as Ive explained,  Portafinas understanding  that it could reasonably  limit 
its advice to just the transfer and the SIPP  was wrong; it needed to consider  the proposed 
investments too, even  if Firm C was advising Mr P on the investments. It was only as a result  
of Portafinas  involvement that Mr P accessed  the funds in his OPS. Portafinas  role was 
pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully reliant on the transfer taking place; if Mr P 
hadnt transferred,  he couldnt have invested  as he did. And, as was clearly  set out in the 
regulators  alerts  in both 2013  and 2014,  Portafina  couldnt  restrict  its advice  merely  to 
the transfer;  it had to consider  the proposed  investments  for Mr P, which  it didnt  do. 
As Ive said above,  Im also not satisfied  that the suggested  portfolio  that was set out in 
the suitability  report  was suitable  for Mr P. So, while  I accept  that Firm C might  also bear 
some  responsibility  for Mr Ps losses,  Im satisfied  that had it not been  for Portafinas  
failings,  Mr P wouldnt  have  suffered  a loss at all.
Ref: DRN458792817I appreciate  that Firm C is in liquidation  but Im aware  that, as a fund of last resort,  the 
FSCS  wont  pay out on claims  where  it is aware  that another  firm was involved  in the 
transaction,  and it considers  that firm might  also be responsible  for a consumers  losses.  
I think its important to point out that Im not saying Portafina is wholly  responsible for the 
losses simply because Firm C is now in liquidation. My starting point  as to causation  is that 
Portafina gave  unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses  Mr P suffered in 
transferring to the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to my mind,  wrong  in law or 
irrational but reflects  the facts of the case and my view of the fair and reasonable position.  
Portafina couldve prevented the transfer  and the investments. Instead it facilitated  them,  
having given unsuitable advice to Mr P that he should transfer.   Mr P hasnt complained 
about Firm C and in light of its liquidation,  there  would be little point in him doing so.  He  has 
complained about Portafina and because of what I have said,  it is, in my view, fair and 
reasonable that Portafina should account  to him for the full extent of his losses.  
So, for the reasons  given,  Im satisfied  that Portafina  is responsible  for Mr Ps losses.  
Putting things  right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Portafina  must  therefore  undertake  a redress  
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  in its Finalised Guidance 17/9:  Guidance for firms on how to calculate  
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
The FCA has announced it intends  this month to update the inflation  assumptions used in 
this guidance.  This could  materially affect  the amount of compensation due. Portafina must 
therefore take into account any amendments  to the regulators Finalised Guidance FG 17/9.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ps acceptance  of the decision.
If this is completed before  publication  of the FCAs intended amendments  to the guidance, 
Portafina must re-run  the calculation within a month of the amended  guidance being 
published  ensuring that any shortfall  this shows in the original calculation  is promptly  made 
up to Mr P. Portafina need only re-run the calculation once, to take account of amendments 
currently planned by the FCA. Portafina  does not subsequently  need  to recalculate following 
any further amendments  the regulator  might later make. 
Alternatively, Portafina may wait until publication  of the FCAs  amended Finalised Guidance 
(expected in March 2021) before calculating and paying the compensation due to Mr P in 
this case.
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Ps contribution history to the State Earnings  Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).  
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr Ps SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
Ref: DRN458792818If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ps pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr P within  90 days of the date 
Portafina receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further  interest must 
be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes 
Portafina to pay Mr P.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My aim is to return Mr P to the position he would have been  in but for the actions of 
Portafina. This is complicated  where  investments are illiquid  (meaning  they cannot  be readily 
sold on the open market),  as their value cant be determined. That appears to be the case 
here.
To calculate the compensation, Portafina  should  agree an amount with the SIPP provider as 
a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take 
ownership of the investment. If Portafina  is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a 
nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the 
calculations should  include anything Portafina  has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding 
charges yet to be applied  to the SIPP should  be deducted.
In return for this, Portafina may ask Mr P to provide an undertaking to account  to it for the 
net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should  
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portafina will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portafina  asks Mr P to provide an undertaking, 
payment of the compensation awarded  may be dependent  upon provision of that 
undertaking.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs  that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require  Portafina to pay Mr P the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above,  up to a maximum of £150,000.
Ref: DRN458792819Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require Portafina 
to pay Mr P any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds  £150,000, I can only require Portafina to 
pay Mr P any interest as set out above  on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount  exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
Portafina pays Mr P the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out 
above on this balance to be paid to Mr P.
If Mr P accepts  my final decision,  the money  award  is binding  on Portafina.  My 
recommendation is not binding on Portafina. Further,  its unlikely that Mr P can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want  to consider getting  
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portafina  LLP to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4587928