K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains about issues shes experienced with a car supplied with evidence from 
Close Brothers Limited.
background
In June 2018 Mrs S was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Close  Brothers.
Whilst driving home fro the supplying dealer the tyre pressure warning light illuminated. Mrs 
S took the car to a local garage  who found large gouges in the front offside tyre and found 
that both rear tyres were worn.
Mrs S complained to the supplying dealer and provided a quote from a tyre suppler. The 
dealer wasnt prepared to authorise  the work because it felt the quote was too high. It said it 
could replace all three  tyres for much less.
Mrs S wasnt  happy with the way the dealer spoke to her. She paid for a new tyre herself  
and complained to Close  Brothers.
Close Brothers said the MOT history showed  that the front offside tyre was noted as an 
advisory in November 2017.  It accepted  that this shouldve been  addressed  before the car 
was sold to Mrs S in June  2018.  Close Brothers said it would refund a fair and reasonable 
amount for a tyre and credited £80 to Mrs Ss account.
Mrs S wasnt  happy about this because she said shed  paid £110  to replace the tyre.
Following this, Mrs S experienced issues with the car juddering  and the engine management 
light illuminating. She obtained  a diagnostic report and sent this to Close  Brothers. Close 
Brothers advised Mrs S to return the car to the dealer for repairs. Mrs S said she wasnt  
prepared to do this because the distance involved was too far. Close Brothers then offered  
to contribute £100 towards the repair costs. Mrs S declined.
Following this the coolant pump failed which caused  the engine  to overheat.  Mrs S arranged  
for repairs to be carried out at a local garage. The repairs included a new coolant pump, rear 
tyres and new fuel injectors. Mrs S paid for these repairs which totalled approximately 
£2000. She wants  Close  Brothers to refund these costs.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said that although the dealer and Close Brothers  
had considered that the quote provided  by Mrs S for repairs  was too expensive,  the option 
which it had offered to her at the time (return the car to the dealer for repairs or accept £100 
towards the cost of repairs) wasnt reasonable. The investigator thought  the faults with the 
car rendered  it of unsatisfactory quality and said that Close Brothers should refund all of Mrs 
Ss repair costs except for the costs  relating  to the rear tyres and the MOT.
Close Brothers didnt  agree. It said it believed that Mrs S had continued  to use the car from 
August 2018 when  the coil pack and spark plugs  needed  replacing. It thought  Mrs S might 
have caused the problems with the fuel injectors by continuing to drive the car rather  than 
having the fault repaired.
Ref: DRN42182152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Close Brothers has supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an 
implied term that its of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable, taking into account  factors such as the price paid, fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. I would expect a 
second hand car, such as the one supplied to Mrs S, to have a degree  of wear and tear 
commensurate with age and mileage.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault is found within the first 6 months,  its 
generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed  one attempt to 
repair a fault.
Mrs Ss first complaint related to the front offside tyre. Close Brothers acknowledged that 
there was a point  of supply fault which it was responsible for, but said it would only 
reimburse a reasonable amount. Mrs S says she paid £110 for the tyre but she hasnt 
provided any evidence  of this payment. Without  proof that Mrs S paid more than the sum 
paid to her by Close Brothers (£80), Im unable to award the difference.
I can see that Mrs S subsequently  had the two rear tyres replaced. These tyres were  noted 
as being close  to the limit very shortly  after the point of supply. Tyres are a wear and tear 
item and will inevitably need to be replaced  from time to time. Whilst I understand Mrs Ss 
frustration at having to  replace tyres so early on in the agreement, I dont think it  would be 
fair to ask Close Brothers to cover the cost of the rear tyres  because they were within the 
legal limit at the point  of supply. I can also see that Mrs S managed to cover approximately  
2000 miles before she replaced the rear tyres.
Mrs S experienced issues with the engine in August  2018. I can see that she obtained a 
diagnostic report on 1 August 2018 which identified a misfire in cylinders 2 and 3. It was 
recommended to replace the coil pack and spark  plugs,  for which  Mrs S obtained a quote 
from a local garage for £203.70.
I can see that the supplying dealer offered to carry out these repairs  itself. As an alternative,  
it offered to contribute  £100 towards the cost of repairs. Whilst Im satisfied that this offer 
was in line with Mrs Ss rights under the CRA  2015, I dont think the option offered  was 
reasonable. Ill explain why.
The business is allowed one opportunity to repair  the fault. But the CRA 2015 says this must 
be without significant inconvenience  to the customer. The dealership was a 3 hour drive  
from Mrs Ss home. I think it would have been inconvenient for Mrs S to return the car to the 
dealer for repairs. Theres the added problem that the engine management light was 
illuminated so it wouldnt  have been sensible to drive  the car in this condition  as it might 
have caused further damage. In circumstances like this I would have expected the business  
to arrange for the car to be transported to the dealer for repairs,  or for repairs  to be carried  
out locally at a garage of the businesses  choice. Neither of these alternatives was offered to 
Mrs S. The contribution of £100  which was offered towards the costs of repair  was less than 
50% of the quote obtained by Mrs S. In the circumstances I dont think Mrs S was left with 
any choice but to arrange for repairs locally.
Ref: DRN42182153I can see that the coil pack was replaced on 26 October  2018.  The water  pump  was 
replaced on 16 November  2018  and the fuel injectors were  replaced on 28 November 2018.
Ive noted Close Brothers  concerns that Mrs S might have continued  to drive the car from 
August 2018 to October 2018.  Ive looked  at the available information to see whether its 
possible to say whether  the car was driven during this time.
Mrs S has said that she kept the car off the road between August and October 2018 until she 
had saved enough money to pay for the necessary repairs.  Shes  provided  a detailed 
account of how she travelled  to and from work during this time, which  included  taking a bus, 
a taxi and borrowing her mothers car. I can see that Mrs S wrote  to Close  Brothers in 
October 2018 explaining  that she was incurring additional transport expenses. Ive no reason  
to doubt what  Mrs S has said about her use of the car and the letter to Close  Brothers 
supports her testimony.  On balance, I dont  think Mrs S used the car between August and 
October 2018.
In relation to the period  between October  2018 (after the water pump had been repaired) 
and November 2018, its not possible on the available information to say whether Mrs S 
used the car. But even  if she did use the car during  this time, I dont think she acted 
unreasonably in doing so, because as far as she was concerned the car had been repaired.
Ive looked at why the fuel injectors  needed replacement.  The garage who carried  out the 
coil pack repairs  and the fuel injector repairs has explained that both repairs  related to the 
engine misfire fault which was diagnosed in August 2018. The garage  said there are a 
number of things  that can cause an engine  to misfire and that replacing the coil pack  is 
usually the firs option because it is a relatively cheap repair,  as compared  to replacing the 
fuel injectors which is more costly.
Based on what the garage has said, Im satisfied that all of the repairs were  carried  out as a 
result of the engine misfire. I havent seen anything to suggest that, following repairs  to the 
water pump in October  2018,  Mrs Ss use of the car caused the fuel injectors to fail. The 
garage has been clear  that the fuel injectors required replacement as a direct  consequence 
of the engine misfire fault which occurred  in August 2018.
Ive taken account of Close Brothers comments that it shouldve  been allowed to carry out an 
independent inspection when the repair  to the coil pack didnt resolve the issue with the 
engine misfire. But Im not persuaded that the third party garage did anything wrong. Im 
satisfied that the engine  misfire was resolved when the fuel injectors were replaced.  At best, 
it could be argued  (with the benefit of hindsight)  that it wasnt necessary to replace the coil 
pack. However, I dont  think the garage acted  unreasonably in replacing the coil pack first, 
because it would have  been a more  cost effective way of resolving the fault if it had worked.
Taking everything into account,  and looking at the nature of the fault and the timescale within  
which it arose, Im of the view that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply. 
The business was entitled to one opportunity  to repair the fault but the offer it made  to do so 
wasnt reasonable. 
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN42182154my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Close Brothers  Limited must  refund  Mrs S for the following costs  
together with 8% interest  from the date of payment to the date of settlement:
1/8/18 diagnostic  test £30
16/11/18 repairs to water pump £598.99
27/11/18 diagnostic  test £72
28/11/18 repairs to fuel injectors £1090.80
Close Brothers Limited must also pay compensation of £200  to Mrs S for trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4218215