K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her a regular payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy to cover  her credit card repayments.
background
Mrs R applied for a credit  card in 2003. At the same  time she took out a PPI policy to cover 
her credit card repayments. The policy cost £0.78 per £100  of the balance on Mrs Rs credit  
card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance  for up 
to 12 months per claim  if Mrs R was unable to work  due to accident or sickness or lost her 
job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld because  he thought Mrs R 
wouldve understood she had a choice  in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mrs R disagrees.  She says it wasnt made clear it was optional and didnt need it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Rs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Rs complaint.
BOS have given  us a copy  of the application  form Mrs R completed when taking out her 
credit card. 
I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application form that deals with PPI. Within 
the section it gives  the cost of PPI and refers  to an enclosed leaflet. It then gives  the option  
to select PPI with a tick next to the words  Please tick the box to enrol.  I can see on Mrs Rs 
application form a tick has been placed in the box next to this. 
I think there is enough there for Mrs R to understand she didnt need to take PPI because 
she couldve  just left the section blank. So I think Mrs R selected  to take PPI with a tick 
because she wanted the cover. 
BOS has told us that it was a no contact sale so I dont think BOS advised 
Mrs R to take PPI. What this means  is that BOS didnt recommend  PPI to Mrs R, it just gave 
her information about PPI. This information  needed  to be given in a way that was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so she could  make an informed choice about  buying PPI.
I dont know if BOS  did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if BOS did 
give all the information  Mrs R needed to make an informed choice on taking  out the policy, 
I think she wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from what  we know 
about BOS policies:
Ref: DRN44754532She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mrs R says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay and her 
parents would be able to help with her repayments if she couldnt work  due to accident 
or sickness  or if she lost her job. But there  is no guarantee  her parents would be able to 
help and a successful claim on the policy wouldve  paid out on top of any work benefits 
and for potentially longer for up to 12 months  per claim.  So I cant see how knowing this 
information wouldve  put her off buying  it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs R and she could cancel 
the policy  if she no longer wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs R on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the policy if BOS had done  more because
it was of value  to her.
Which means BOS doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Rs complaint against  
Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.  
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4475453