K821x#15complaint
Mrs Y says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about five loans Uncle Buck provided to Mrs Y between  October  2016  and 
December 2017.  Mrs Ys borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date  
TakenDate  Repaid Instalments Amount Highest monthly 
Repayment
1 11/10/2016 31/12/2016 3 £300 £141.60
2 30/12/2016 29/03/2017 3 £400 £203.21
3 21/05/2017 31/07/2017 3 £500 £220.17
4 01/08/2017 27/10/2017 3 £600 £302.71
5 04/12/2017 31/05/2018 5 £600 £211.65
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Ys complaint  and thought  the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been  given  as proportionate  checks for these loans wouldve 
shown that her financial situation  could  not sustain further lending as her outgoings  
exceeded her income.
Uncle Buck  disagreed. It said that its checks went far enough and that there was also a gap 
between loans for and five. So, the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs Y 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN46611072refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mrs Y could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ys complaint.
 
Mrs Y didnt disagree with our adjudicators  opinion about loans one, two and three. Because  
of this, I dont think that there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. But as these  
loans were part of the borrowing relationship Mrs Y had with Uncle  Buck, I will take the loans 
in to account when considering the other  loans she took.
Uncle Buck  has also agreed  to repay  the fees and charges associated with loan five  but 
this isnt all that the adjudicator recommend that it do  so I will be making a decision on loan 
five, along with loan four. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans four and five would most likely 
have shown that Mrs Y had other  outstanding short-term lending  commitments, leaving her 
without any disposable  income in which to make the loan repayments she was committed to 
making. And Uncle Buck wouldve likely known that Mrs Y couldnt afford to repay these 
loans in a sustainable manner. So, it shouldnt have  given her these loans.
In response, Uncle Buck  said that it did carry out proportionate checks when it provided 
these loans to Mrs Y  and that the credit report it used indicated  that there  was no existing 
short-term borrowing. It also said that it just because it does not request bank statements, it 
doesnt mean that proportionate checks were  not made.
But by this time in its lending  relationship with Mrs Y, Uncle Buck  wasnt just required to 
request information   it should also have been  verifying what  it had been told. And it was 
also aware that the type of search  it conducted  wouldnt necessarily have given a full picture  
of Mrs Ys finances.
Had Uncle Buck done so, it wouldve  seen  that not only did Mrs Y had other outstanding 
short-term loans from other providers, but that she was also clearly having financial difficulty 
with other  credit providers  too  and that she was in arrears. It would also have seen that the 
financial commitments  Mrs Y already  had in place meant that she had no disposable income  
available and was borrowing outside of her means.   
Ref: DRN46611073So, Im upholding  the complaint about  loans four and five and Uncle Buck should put things 
right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs Y paid on loans four and five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans four and five from Mrs Ys credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck  to take off tax from this interest.  Uncle Buck  must 
give Mrs Y a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Ys complaint. Uncle Buck  Finance 
LLP should pay Mrs Y compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN4661107