K820x#14complaint
Miss A has complained  about  the poor service  she received from esure  Insurance Limited 
when she made a claim under her car insurance  policy. 
background
Miss A bought  a car insurance policy with esure. In April 2018 she reported  an incident to 
esure which wasnt her fault. 
Miss A complained about the repairs to her car and the service she received.  esure  arranged  
for an independent assessor to inspect the repairs and he recommended rectification repairs 
to be carried out. In June 2018  esure  upheld Miss As complaint. For the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused Miss A, esure paid her £300 compensation. 
Miss A remained unhappy. She said the courtesy  car provided by the approved repairer  for 
the rectification  repairs wasnt suitable as she has a disability - and she didnt feel it was safe 
to drive. Miss A was unhappy with the way a mechanic at the repairer spoke  to her on the 
phone. And when her car was returned  the following day, she said the repairs still hadnt 
been carried out properly. 
esure arranged  for an independent assessor to inspect Miss As car for a second time.  He 
reported that the repairs had been  carried out to a satisfactory level. 
The repairer told esure it had agreed  to provide a larger car than the standard small 
hatchback with Miss A beforehand. So esure said it had done enough to resolve Miss As 
complaint. 
Miss A asked us to look at things for her. Our investigator thought  esure had acted 
reasonably. He explained that he couldnt  make  a recommendation to accept one partys 
account over another when there is no recording of the call and where both parties dispute 
what was said. 
Miss A didnt agree. She feels the process  works  against her and in esures  favour. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
I think esure dealt with Miss As complaint about the service she received up until 5 June 
2018 fairly. I think esure could have handled Miss As claim better  but I also think  its 
reasonable to expect  a degree of inconvenience  when dealing  with a claim. I can understand 
how frustrated and disappointed Miss A was when her car was returned to her but the 
repairs hadnt been properly carried out. 
The remaining  issues  Miss A is unhappy with are:
esure hasnt resolved  her complaint as her car still requires repair  and;
Ref: DRN43865362esure hasnt addressed her complaint about the way she was treated by the 
repairer when her car went  in for rectification  repairs. Miss A said the repairer 
discriminated against her because  of her disability  in his words  and actions. 
esure asked  an independent assessor  to inspect  the rectification  repairs  carried out by the 
approved repairer  on 13 June 2018.  On 29 June 2018  the assessor reported that the repairs  
had been carried  out to an acceptable standard. I know Miss A doesnt agree with this. But I 
think it was reasonable  for esure  to rely on the professional opinion  of an independent 
assessor. And I havent seen anything of similar  weight to contradict the assessors report.
 
The approved repairer delivered a courtesy car to Miss A and collected her car on 12 June 
2018. It returned Miss As car to her on 13 June 2018 as it had completed the rectification 
repairs. The repairer  provided Miss A with a gift to say sorry for having to have the repairs  
rectified. Miss A said that the courtesy  car provided by the repairer while  it carried  out 
rectification works on 13 June 2018  wasnt suitable. She explained that the doors were too 
heavy and she was concerned about  the brakes. Miss A said she chose to travel  to work on 
13 June 2018  using public transport which she said made an existing condition worse.  
Miss A said that when  she called the repairer on the evening on 12 June 218 to discuss  her 
concerns about  the courtesy car, the mechanic  she spoke to shouted  at her and she felt 
discriminated against because of her disability. 
Where both parties disagree, we look at what evidence is available to support either account 
and we take an even handed approach.  There is no recording of the call. I dont doubt that 
Miss A was unhappy  with the conversation she had that evening. However, the repairer gave  
a different account.  He said that he didnt  shout at Miss A  but due to the tone of the 
conversation, he recommended they end the call. He told esure that they agreed beforehand 
with Miss A to provide  her with a larger car than the small hatchback she was entitled to 
under the terms  of her policy. 
I can understand why Miss A feels so strongly  about  this part of her complaint. She feels  her 
account hasnt  been taken at face value  but the word of the insurer  has. 
But that isnt the case. Our role is to decide  whether an insurer  has acted reasonably.  There  
isnt enough for me to decide that esure discriminated against Miss A. It seems that the 
repairer provided a car outside of the terms of the policy  in order to meet  Miss As needs.  I 
cant safely conclude that the approved repairer isnt telling the truth. 
I understand Miss A will be disappointed.  But this means Im not upholding her complaint as 
I think esure has acted reasonably. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN43865363Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4386536