K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that National Westminster Bank Plc did not make the same interest 
rate products available to them on their mortgage, that were available to new mortgage  
customers. Theyre unhappy with this because  they say its not in line with the commitments 
NatWest published  on their website.
background
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with NatWest.  In 2019 they looked into taking out a new 
interest rate product  and found that the interest  rates available were different depending on 
whether they were  new customers or existing customers.
Theyve said that for their loan to value (LTV), the five-year fixed rate available to them  as 
existing NatWest customers was 2.59%, but for new customers the equivalent rate was 
1.89%. Mr and Mrs M found  a cheaper rate elsewhere and so re-mortgaged  to a different 
lender.
Mr and Mrs M complained to NatWest. They referred to information theyd found on RBSs 
website (which is part of the same  banking group) published in 2014, that suggested  the 
bank would not offer deals to new customers that wouldnt also be made available  to existing 
customers.
NatWest didnt uphold  the complaint. They explained that since the information Mr M had 
referred to was published, market conditions had changed, and the bank had made a 
commercial decision to review the rates they offer. They said that there are other 
advantages to remaining with NatWest as an existing customer, but they can only offer 
Mr and Mrs M rates available from their current  portfolio.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint  to our service. They  didnt think it was fair that 
NatWest werent acting in line with the commitments  published on their website. Our 
investigator looked into things and explained  that he didnt think NatWest  had acted unfairly.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They didnt think it was right that NatWest could have actively 
promoted this commitment on their website  but not act in accordance with it. They  
acknowledged the information  on the website had since been taken down but say it was still 
active at the time they asked about  new rates. 
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change  his opinion so the complaints  been  passed to 
me to issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have  sent us copies of the information they found on RBSs website when 
looking for their new interest rate deal.  There are two separate pages on the website that 
Mr M has referred to. The first was a statement published in February 2014 about  the new 
direction for the bank. This statement said the bank would stop offering deals and products 
to new customers that they were  not prepared to offer existing customers. 
Ref: DRN47827852The second  page Mr M sent us was from the customer commitments  section  from RBSs  
website. This says: 
we said we would stop offering deals  to new customers that we are not prepared  to offer our 
existing customers 
We now offer our best rates to new and existing customers across our product range. 
There is now no Personal Banking or Business  Banking deal that is not available  to existing 
customers.
This information is no longer on the website,  but the copies  Mr and Mrs M have  provided  
show the date stamp as May 2019,  so Im persuaded  on balance  that this information was 
still live on the website  at the time Mr and Mrs M were looking at new rates.
However, NatWest have said that since this information was published in 2014, the banks 
policies have changed. Theyve  said that in order to stay competitive they were forced to 
change their stance on the deals they could offer existing customers. So it seems the 
information that Mr M found  on the website was unfortunately out of date and no longer 
relevant by the time he was applying.
Lenders are entitled to change their policies and make commercial decisions about  the rates 
they make  available to their customers. When doing  this there are a number of factors that 
they have to take into account, including any changes to market  conditions, the costs of 
funding, and remaining competitive in the market.  Its common  across the industry  for 
mortgage lenders  to regularly review their policies  and rates available, so I dont think  its 
unusual or unreasonable that NatWest  have changed their policy from what  it was in 2014.
NatWest did have interest rate products available to Mr and Mrs M at the time they were 
looking to switch their deal, Mr and Mrs M are just unhappy the rates werent  as low as those 
advertised for new borrowers.  A decision was made  by the bank to offer more preferential  
rates to brand new customers,  and I dont think theres anything  inherently unfair about that. 
Mr and Mrs M had the opportunity to apply for the same interest  rate products (within the 
relevant LTV band) as all of NatWests other existing customers, so Im not satisfied theyve 
been treated unfairly in comparison to other borrowers in the same  position as them. 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs M were  disappointed to learn that NatWests  policies had 
changed since the statements on the website  had been published.  And its unfortunate that 
this information  on the website hadnt been  updated to reflect the banks change in policy.  
But just because there may have been  out of date information on the website, it does not 
follow that the fair outcome would be to make that incorrect  information true. Once Mr M 
queried the position with NatWest, they clarified  that the information was no longer relevant, 
and that he didnt have access to the same deals as new customers.  As a result,  Mr and 
Mrs M moved  their mortgage  after finding  a cheaper deal with a different lender. Im satisfied 
it was fair for NatWest to apply their existing policy at the time to Mr and Mrs Ms request for 
a new interest rate. So I dont think theyve acted unfairly in the way they treated Mr and Mrs 
M. I agree that the information should have been updated when the banks policy changed, 
but I note this has since been  taken  down.
Finally, Mr M says that at the time he chose to fix his previous interest rate with NatWest in 
2015, their customer promise advertised was one of the things he took into account. I dont 
doubt this was the case, but as Ive explained,  its common for lenders  to change their 
policies over the years, and there was no guarantee when this statement was published  in 
2014, that it would still be relevant when Mr and Mrs Ms fixed  rates  were  due to expire.
Ref: DRN47827853Mr and Mrs M feel theyre out of pocket  as the rate theyve secured with their new lender is 
still not as low as the rate NatWest offered to new customers at the time. But that was not a 
rate that was ever available to Mr and Mrs M, so Im not satisfied its a reasonable 
comparison. Mr and Mrs M chose to shop around  to find a deal that was suitable for them as 
they werent happy with the rates NatWest  were offering. Im not satisfied they were  forced  
to leave NatWest as a result of anything the bank had done wrong.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4782785