K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) is holding him at 
fault under  his motor insurance policy following an accident.
background
Mr Y and another driver  collided when  they were both reversing. Mr Y first told LV that he 
didnt see the other  driver.  LV agreed to settle the other drivers claim for repairs  and 
personal injuries. But Mr Y then found  CCTV footage of the incident which he showed  to 
LVs inspecting engineer.  When LV saw the CCTV footage, it changed the outcome to 50/50 
split liability. It thought the evidence wasnt strong  enough to show the other driver was 
wholly at fault.  LV paid Mr Y £50 compensation  for the way it had communicated  the claim 
outcome. My Y thought  the other driver  was making  an illegal manoeuvre. He didnt want to 
be penalised  for the accident.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said LV thought 
from the initial phone call Mr Y would be held at fault if the other  driver  claimed.  When a 
claim was made, she thought LV agreed to settle it based on the evidence it then had. She 
thought this was reasonable  to keep costs down. She thought  it then reasonably considered  
the CCTV evidence  when it was provided  and changed the decision. So she thought it had 
reached its decision on the claim fairly and reasonably and that its £50 compensation was 
fair.
Mr Y replied  that the other  driver had illegally  reversed into the main road and collided with 
his already moving car. He said the cars barely touched and the personal injury  claim was 
fraudulent. He said LV knew the claim was fraudulent before it paid the claim. He thought 
this should be investigated. He said it shouldnt  be a 50/50 settlement. And he said LV had 
told him wrongly that this wouldnt affect  his future  premiums. Mr Y asked for an 
ombudsmans review,  so his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr Y has raised a new complaint with LV about his premium  increase at 
renewal. So Im not able to consider this here. But I can consider LVs decision about his 
earlier collision. Mr Y said he was reversing out of a driveway when his car touched the car 
of the other driver which was reversing out of a side road.  
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
LV is entitled  under  the terms  and conditions of its policy with Mr Y to take over, defend,  or 
settle a claim as it sees fit. Mr Y has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of 
his claim,  whether he agrees  with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Also, insurers are entitled to take a commercial  
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better  to 
compromise.
Ref: DRN41983422That said,  we expect  an insurer  to reasonably  investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision  on liability. 
The evidence LV initially had available was Mr Ys notification call, its discussion with the 
other driver,  and the engineers report on his cars  damage.  Mr Y in his call had said that he 
thought he was at fault as he hadnt seen  the other car. He said the sun in his eyes and 
there was a blind  spot. Mr Y repeated this when  he brought his complaint to us. The damage  
caused was to the drivers side back door of the other drivers  car whilst Mr Y said his car 
wasnt damaged. LV wasnt then aware of the CCTV footage.  
So I think LV then decided to accept  liability and to settle on best possible terms to keep 
costs down. I think its entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. And I think it 
made its decision then based on consideration of the evidence  it had available. 
When LV was made aware of the CCTV footage, I can see that it considered it. It thought  the 
evidence was insufficient to hold the other  driver  fully at fault.  But it said that if it had had it 
sooner, then it would  have argued for a split liability settlement  as both parties  were  
reversing. So later it changed the outcome to 50/50. It explained to Mr Y that the effect for 
him would still be the same as a fault claim.  So I cant say that LVs accepting liability before 
considering the CCTV footage has prejudiced Mr Ys position. 
Mr Y thought  the other  driver was making an illegal  manoeuvre. But I can see that LV 
explained to Mr Y there were arguments  on both sides that it considered.  It said it dealt with 
Civil Law, not Criminal  Law,  which  was a matter for the police. So it said it considered the 
matter on the balance of probabilities. I think that was fair and reasonable. 
Mr Y wanted  to know why LV has sent its engineer to inspect his car after it had paid the 
other drivers  claim. I think it explained  to Mr Y that this was part of its fraud prevention.  And 
it said the report and CCTV  footage  gave  it no reason to question  the validity  of the claim. 
Mr Y said the other drivers claim for personal  injury  was fraudulent because,  as shown by 
the CCTV, both cars were  travelling very slowly  at the time.  He said the other driver leapt 
about after the collision. 
But I dont think its unusual for personal injuries  not to be immediately evident following a 
collision. LV said the impact had been severe enough to cause injury. I can see that it 
discussed the treatment the other  driver received for minor injuries. I think  LV reviewed the 
circumstances and decided to settle  the claim to avoid further costs. I think  its entitled to do 
that by the policy  terms and conditions. So I cant say its done anything  wrong  in this. 
Mr Y said he wanted to be put in the same  position  as the other  driver.  But LV has already 
explained that Mr Y didnt  make a claim and so it has no outlay to recover from the other  
partys insurer.  It said the amount of the claim wouldnt affect Mr Y. 
LV offered  Mr Y £50 compensation  for its communication about the claim outcome. Mr Y 
returned the cheque as he thought it was insulting.  But I think it was fair and reasonable 
compensation for its level of service as its in keeping  with what  Id require in similar 
circumstances. Id expect  LV to still offer this to Mr Y if he decides to accept it. 
Ref: DRN41983423my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4198342