K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with what National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) propose to 
do to put things right following their complaint  about  the sale of payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background 
Mr and Mrs T complained that NatWest  mis-sold  them  a PPI policy alongside  a loan they 
took out in 2004.
NatWest investigated  the complaint and agreed the complaint should be upheld. But 
Mr and Mrs T had entered individual  voluntary  arrangements (IVA) in 2005  and NatWest  
says this meant Mr and Mrs T hadnt  repaid everything they owed it. It proposes to pay the 
compensation for mis-selling  PPI towards the amount that Mr and Mrs T hadnt  repaid.
Mr and Mrs T dont  think this is fair, and referred  the complaint to us.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs T 
didnt agree with the adjudicator. The complaint  has now been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest has agreed it mis-sold  the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs T, so I dont  need  to look at 
how PPI was sold. And Mr and Mrs T havent  complained about  the amount NatWest  has 
offered in compensation, so I havent looked  at this.
In this decision, Ive only looked at whether it was fair for NatWest  to use the 
compensation its offered to reduce their outstanding debt.
Having done so, I think its fair for NatWest to use the compensation to reduce what they 
didnt repay  following their IVA. Ill explain why.
Based on what Ive seen,  Mr and Mrs Ts loan started in May 2004.  NatWest says they 
borrowed £6,650  plus an extra £2,030 to pay for the PPI. Mr and Mrs T would repay the 
extra they borrowed, with interest,  as part of their loan repayments. As Mr and Mrs T paid 
£215.55 a month towards the total, this means they paid around £50.41 a month towards  the 
PPI.
But I see Mr and Mrs T soon fell into arrears.  By April 2005,  it appears theyd stopped  
making regular repayments. NatWest  then received a final payment from the IVAs in 
November 2008.
In total, NatWest has worked  out that Mr and Mrs T paid an extra £904.40 towards this loan 
because of the PPI  and based  on the transaction history Ive seen, I think  thats right.  
But the transaction history also shows that when  the account  closed it had an outstanding 
balance of £6,109.80. Around £697.18 of this was because of the PPI. The rest of this is 
money that, following the successful completion  of the IVA, Mr and Mrs T dont ever have to 
repay.
Ref: DRN44430552This means  NatWest is out of pocket  for this money.  It cant  legally chase Mr and Mrs T for 
this debt. But it now accepts that it owes Mr and Mrs T money for mis-selling the PPI.
I dont think it would  be fair to tell NatWest to pay Mr and Mrs T this money directly when, 
following the IVA, they didnt  have  to repay many thousands that they owed to NatWest.
When I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about the sale of PPI should be 
upheld, the compensation  Id award is intended to put the consumer in the position theyd be 
in if they hadnt bought the policy.
If Mr and Mrs T hadnt bought this policy, I think its likely theyd still have ended  up in an 
IVA. The PPI was only a small part of what theyd borrowed, and theyve told us they also 
had difficulties paying other  debts  including their mortgage. But theyd have owed less. And 
thats the position NatWests offer puts them in.
Mr and Mrs T think the compensation should  be paid to them directly. Mr and Mrs T are 
unhappy in particular that the policy didnt pay out when Mr T was unemployed. They  feel 
that if the PPI policy had paid out, they might have kept their home and not entered the IVA 
at all.
I have every sympathy for Mr and Mrs T and dont doubt theyve had a very difficult time. But 
I dont think this changes  what  is fair. Even if Mr T had been able to claim on the policy, the 
amount hed have  got is still a lot less than the amount  Mr and Mrs T didnt pay NatWest 
following the IVA. And as Ive explained,  Im not persuaded that the sale of this policy  in itself 
led to them entering  the IVA. 
Im also mindful that any decision  to decline the claim is something  the insurer is responsible 
for  and so if Mr and Mrs T felt the claim was declined  incorrectly this is something  they 
needed to raise with them. 
Mr and Mrs T have  mentioned that other  businesses have paid them directly. I cant 
comment on what other businesses did on their complaints or why. I can only look at 
whether what NatWest has offered, in this case, is fair. For the reasons above, I think its fair 
for NatWest to use the compensation to reduce what was left following the IVA.
Finally, NatWest has said it will pay Mr and Mrs T £50 for the trouble and upset Mr and 
Mrs T experienced in bringing their complaint. This is because they say they didnt keep Mr 
T updated  about  the complaint in line with the timescales they promised during a call with a 
manager. Where I award compensation  for trouble and upset this isnt to punish  the 
business but to reflect  the impact its actions had on its customer. With that in mind, I think 
the amount NatWest  has offered is a fair resolution  to that part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN44430553my final decision
For the reasons  above, I think that National Westminster Bank  plc has offered fair 
compensation for mis-selling  PPI. 
And I think it is fair for National  Westminster Bank Plc to use the PPI compensation it owed 
Mr and Mrs T to reduce their outstanding  debt that hasnt been  repaid in full.
National Westminster Bank Plc should  now pay Mr and Mrs T the £50 it has offered for the 
trouble and upset  it caused, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4443055