K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that the mortgage Sesame Limited sold to him wasnt affordable. He says it 
arranged a self certified  mortgage when he had asked for a buy-to-let mortgage and was 
employed.
background
In 2006 Mr H asked  Sesame to help him find a mortgage. He agreed a mortgage of in 
excess of £100,000 over 30 years, with the rate of interest fixed  for 2 years. It was a first 
time buyer self certification mortgage.  Mr H now says that the mortgage wasnt  suitable  for 
him. He was in part time employment  and could prove his income by way of payslips so 
there was no need for self-certification.  He says that the mortgage  wasnt affordable for him 
from the outset. He also says that he asked for a buy-to-let mortgage.
The investigator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld.  He said:
The fact find completed  at the time showed Mr H was single, living with parents and had 
been in self-employment since 2004,  earning more  than £27,000 per annum. He only 
had two years account when  three  years are required for a standard  mortgage so he 
self-certified his income. The lender assessed affordability based on the income  Mr H 
declared.
Mr H was a first time buyer and needed  to borrow  90% of the property value so it was 
very unlikely he would have been  eligible for a buy to let mortgage. His application to the 
lender said the property was to be his main  residence.
Based on this, the investigator couldnt fairly  say that the mortgage recommendation made 
to Mr H was unsuitable.
Mr H responded to say, in summary, that the fact find had been changed after he signed it 
and he was pressured into buying a house.  He has now lost the property, has a debt and 
wants a full refund because the mortgage  was mis-sold to him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Mr H has told us that in 2006  he needed  to find accommodation for his ex-partner and their 
children. Within a few months of visiting an estate  agent he had bought  a house and had a 
mortgage. Sesame  helped him to find a mortgage.  At the time, he was in employment and 
he gave it three months payslips as proof  of income. Sesame asked him to sign various  
documents and recommended a mortgage.  He says that it told him to borrow from friends,  
family and on credit  card to raise the deposit. In June 2006 he agreed to a mortgage of just 
over £100,000 over 30 years, with interest fixed for the first two years.  Right from the 
beginning he struggled with the repayments and also had to pay back money  he had 
borrowed from friends.
Ref: DRN46935012Mr H says that he was in employment,  and not self employed, when he took out the 
mortgage. He says that Sesame took copies of three months payslips at the time as proof  of 
his income. He doesnt think he should have been recommended  a self-certification 
mortgage as this was more expensive  than if he had been  assessed on a full status basis.  
I have very carefully reviewed the full fact find review that was carried  out with Mr H in 2006. 
I find that he said that he had been  self-employed since 2004 earning around £1,700 per 
month. He also had £11,200  available as a deposit.  Given that Mr H had not been trading  for 
three years and couldnt provide three years of accounts Im satisfied that Sesame was 
entitled to consider self-certification of income as being appropriate.  Mr H signed the fact find 
and, in doing so, agreed  that it was a true record of the discussions and confirmed that the 
information was true. 
At the meeting when the fact find was completed, Mr H was given copies of a number of 
documents, including the fact find and the key facts about the mortgage that Sesame 
recommended. A few days  later Sesame sent him a letter to confirm the contents of the 
discussions. This set out that, among other things, Mr H had asked for a 2 year fixed  rate 
first time buyer mortgage over a term of 30 years on a repayment basis. Under a heading,  in 
bold print, of Warning  it said:
Self Certification
Reason for Self Cert is because you have not been trading for 3 years and cannot provide 
audited accounts.  You are under  pressure  from the Vendor to complete as quickly  as 
possible and need speed of processing.
You have  assured me that this mortgage is within your budget, allowing for increasing 
interest rates. You have  not supplied documentary evidence of this. Therefore I can only 
accept your assurances as fact.
You have  been  made aware  that a Self Certification Mortgage could incur  more  costs in the 
form of fees and higher interest rates than a standard mortgage. You have stated that you 
are happy  to proceed on that basis. Making a false, misleading, or inaccurate declaration 
in relation to your mortgage application  is a criminal offence,  may lead to prosecution 
of the applicant, resulting in a fine/or  imprisonment.
The letter finished by saying that the mortgage  recommendation  was based on the 
information that Mr H provided. It asked  that if that wasnt  the case then Mr H should  contact 
Sesame immediately. 
Mr H has now suggested that the fact find had been changed after he had signed it and that 
he had asked for a buy to let mortgage.  As Im satisfied that Mr H had a copy  of the fact find 
and a letter  setting  out all the details  about  the mortgage, including  that it was a first time 
buyer self certification mortgage, if the documents had been  changed, the mortgage  wasnt  
what he had asked for or the contents of the letter  he received were  not accurate  then I 
would have expected him to raise his concerns  far sooner than he has.
I consider that the lender  would have sent the mortgage offer to Mr H, which  he had to sign 
to accept. The mortgage offer clearly sets out all the terms relating to the mortgage. This 
showed, among  other details, the amount and term of the loan, that it was a fixed rate until 
2008 and the amount of the monthly payments. In the circumstances, I find Mr H should 
Ref: DRN46935013have been aware  of all the terms and conditions of the mortgage he agreed  to and Im not 
persuaded that he was mis-sold  it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4693501