K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains Santander  UK Plc handled her chargeback request badly.
background
Ms D has a debit card with Santander  and at the time of this complaint had also ordered a credit 
card. Ms D says her credit card took longer to arrive than it should have  done.  As a result she ended 
up buying a bathroom from a third party with her debit card rather than her credit card.  Ms D paid  
someone recommended by the third party to install the bathroom. She paid with cash.
Unfortunately Ms D had a lot of problems  with the bathroom that she bought. She complained  to 
Santander, to the third part and to the person who installed it. Ms D asked Santander to carry out a 
chargeback. Ms D says  Santander told her that it would  get her money back and that she sent  a lot 
of documentation to Santander  taking a considerable amount of time  having  been  told it would 
get her money back. Having done so, Santander  wrote  to Ms D to say that it couldnt  progress her 
claim within  the dispute resolution process  and that she should contact the third party to resolve  the 
matter. Ms D was unhappy with this and complained.
Santander investigated Ms Ds complaint but didnt uphold it. Santander said that it would only have 
been able  to carry out a chargeback  in relation to the payment shed made from her card. In other 
words, it would only have  been able  to carry out a chargeback  in relation to the payment for the 
bathroom. Santander  said that in order to complete a chargeback in relation to that payment, there 
would have needed to be an issue with the goods when they were received. Santander said that the 
evidence Ms D had sent in described issues with  the installation which was not covered as that was 
paid for in cash. Santander  also said that Ms Ds evidence that the sink was damaged wasnt clear 
when the damage  had occurred. Finally Santander  said that Ms D would have had to raise  this with 
the third party  first,  and return  the damaged item. Ms D complained to us.
One of our investigators  looked  into Ms Ds complaint but didnt  think Santander  had acted  unfairly.  
So Ms D asked for an ombudsman to look  into her complaint.  Thats  what Ive done.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ds partner  has helped her bring  this complaint to us, and also helped her to try and get her 
money back.  He, for example, spoke to Santander when  Ms D asked Santander to carry out a 
chargeback. Ive listened to the second part of that call  the first part of the call wasnt recorded  as 
Ms D was speaking to another area. I agree with Ms D that Santander  could have  explained the 
chargeback process more  clearly, but I dont  agree that Santander guaranteed Ms D that it would get 
her money  back. The agent Ms Ds partner spoke to explained that Santander would credit the 
money theyd  paid to the third party to their account, give the third party thirty days  to challenge 
the chargeback and depending on what the third party said Ms Ds account might be debited.  In 
other words,  the refund  might be reversed. 
I can see that Ms D sent  Santander a lot of information  about what  had gone  wrong, including  for 
example emails theyd  exchanged with the person who had installed the bathroom they bought. The 
information mentions  very  briefly  that the sink that was installed had a dent in it and problems 
Ref: DRN46829392with the shower tray. But theres very  little to show that these issues  mentioned very briefly   
were due to problems with the goods  Ms D bought being  damaged or defective when  they were 
originally bought. So I can understand why Santander  decided  that it wouldnt  carry out a 
chargeback  the card  payment  was for the goods  bought rather than their installation.  On the 
evidence that Ms D sent in, I dont think  I can say that the chargeback had a reasonable prospect of 
success. The majority of the problems  appear to be as a result of installation  but as Ms D has 
complained elsewhere about this I dont think it would be helpful  for me to say more.
Having listened to the calls, and having spoken  to Ms Ds partner too, as well as listen to Ms Ds 
partners calls with  our investigator,  I can understand  what Ms D was hoping to achieve. 
Unfortunately chargebacks  arent as wide ranging  as, for example, section 75 claims and very 
specific criteria have  to be met in order for them to succeed. In short, I dont think a chargeback 
would have helped much  in this case.  Nor do I think it would be right to say that Santander has acted 
unfairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or reject my 
decision before 6 March 2019.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4682939