K821x#15Complaint
Mr N complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) lent to him irresponsibly. Mr N is 
also unhappy that Drafty suspended his credit and the affect  this had on his credit score.   
Background
Mr N approached Drafty for a running  credit facility in May 2017. Mr N was given a facility  
with a credit  limit of £1,040. On 2 June 2018, Drafty suspended the facility and so Mr N was 
no longer able to make  further drawdowns. The account statement for March 2019  shows 
that Mr N had repaid  the facilitys outstanding  balance in full by 23 February 2019. 
This was a running  credit account where  a consumer could either  request funds up to their 
agreed credit limit in one go or take multiple drawdowns up to their limit. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ns complaint. She thought that the checks Drafty 
carried out before granting this facility were  proportionate, so it wasnt wrong  for it to have 
initially approved  the facility. The adjudicator also didnt think  it was unreasonable  for Drafty  
to have suspended the facility. But, through proper monitoring of the facility, she thought 
Drafty shouldve realised it wouldve been fair not to add any further interest at that point.    
So, the adjudicator said that Drafty  should  rework Mr Ns account  from 2 June 2018 by 
removing any unpaid  interest and treating any payments as principal (with  any 
overpayments then refunded to Mr N together with 8% interest).  
Mr N appears  to agree with the adjudicators view. Drafty hasnt  responded. As no 
agreement has been reached,  the case has been  passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr N doesnt appear  to disagree  with our adjudicators findings that Drafty wasnt wrong  to 
have granted  the facility. It seems therefore that this isnt in dispute and so I no longer think  
that I need to make  a finding  about  it. 
So instead,  this decision will focus on whether Drafty monitored the facility properly. But Ive 
kept the initial lending in mind when thinking  about  the overall lending relationship between 
Drafty and Mr N. 
Its important to look at how Mr N used  the facility with a view to see if there was a point at 
which Drafty should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. This is because although it doesnt appear to be in dispute that Drafty 
wasnt wrong to have provided  the facility, that wasnt the end of its obligation to Mr N.  
When the facility  was approved, Drafty  was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). The FCA had issued guidance  on this type of lending and what  it says should be 
expected from lenders  when granting these  types  of loans. 
Ref: DRN42922922Within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  section 6.7.2R says:
A firm must monitor a customers repayment  record and take appropriate  action 
where there  are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties 
In practice this meant Drafty needed to be mindful  of how Mr N used the facility in order to 
step in, if and when, he showed  signs of possible financial  difficulties. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that Drafty shouldve stopped adding interest to the facility on     
8 June 2018. There didnt seem to be anything concerning in the pattern or level of 
borrowing prior to that point. 
Before 8 June  2018, Mr N had taken five drawdowns. Initially,  two in May 2017 for £400  and 
£640. He then didnt use the facility until August 2017 when he drew  down £48.47.  The last 
two drawdowns of £200 and £40, were taken  at the beginning  of October  2017.  
So, it wasnt  as if Mr N was making significant  repayments to Drafty, and then quickly 
drawing down a similar sum again,  which might  have indicated  that he wasnt  using the 
facility as it was designed  to be used  and unable to afford the repayments in a sustainable 
way.
Under the credit agreement, however, when Mr N was given the facility, there was an 
expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a reasonable 
period of time, and I dont think it is unreasonable to consider this period to be around 12 
months. So overall, I think that this means  the checks Drafty  carried out had to provide 
enough information for it to be able to understand whether  Mr N would likely be able to 
service and then repay this facility within a reasonable  period.
But this clearly wasnt happening. By June  2018,  when Drafty suspended  the facility,  Mr N 
had been using the facility  for around  13 months and had made  no headway into repaying 
what he had borrowed.  Instead, Mr N was effectively servicing the debt, by making 
payments at or around the minimum payment. So, by June  2018  he still owed Drafty over 
£1,000. 
At that point I understand Drafty had reassessed Mr Ns circumstances and because  of 
concerns about  the affordability  of the borrowing decided that extending  credit  any further 
couldve resulted  in financial difficulties for him. Taken together with Mr Ns apparent inability  
to repay  his outstanding balance in a reasonable  period, I think it wouldve been  fair and a 
positive response  for Drafty to stop adding interest  to the facility.  
I appreciate Mr N says his credit score  was higher than when the facility was granted.  Its not 
clear to me if any change  in Mr Ns credit  score resulted solely  from the suspension of his 
credit. However, I think if Drafty had concerns about affordability,  then as a responsible 
lender it was entitled to review Mr Ns circumstances and vary the credit limit. This is also 
clearly set out in the credit  agreement. And Drafty  also agreed to reassess its decision 
subject to Mr N providing bank statements or payslips so it could  run further  affordability  
checks. I think this seems reasonable in the circumstances. 
Looking at the credit report  provided  by Mr N, Drafty  also reported  the change  in limit and    
an outstanding  balance as it was required to do. So, Ive not found Drafty did anything wrong 
when changing  the credit limit or how it reported  that change  to credit reference  agencies. 
But I think it would be fair for any adverse information to be removed  if any has resulted  from 
interest being added to the facility from the date credit was suspended. 
Ref: DRN42922923So, overall, I agree with our adjudicator that it wouldve  been  fair and reasonable for Drafty 
to have suspended the interest on Mr Ns facility from 2 June 2018. Drafty should also 
remove any negative information  from Mr Ns credit  file from this date.  
Putting things  right 
I understand, based on a statement from January 2020 that the facility has been repaid and 
there is no outstanding  balance.  So, in order to put things right Drafty should: 
Refund all interest,  fees and charges  added  to the account  after 2 June 2018.  
add to the above 8% simple interest  each year from the date of the overpayment to 
the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  from Mr Ns credit file from 2 June 2018.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Mr N a certificate showing how much  tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above I partly uphold  Mr Ns complaint.  
Gain Credit LLC should  put things right for Mr N as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2020.
Robert Walker 
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4292292