K821x#15complaint
Mr I complains that FirstRand  Bank  Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo), 
were wrong to place  a Credit Industry  Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS) marker against his 
name.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in July 2020. I explained that I was 
intending to uphold Mr Is complaint but that Id consider any further  responses  either  he or 
the business wished to provide before 20 August 2020. An extract from that provisional 
decision is set out below.
MotoNovo reported  a CIFAS marker against  Mr Is name as they suspected  he had 
tampered with the odometer  on a car he was leasing through them. Theyd  noticed  that the 
mileage recorded  during  an MOT  in December 2012 was about  600 miles less than it was 
during an independent  inspection of the car that had taken  place in July 2012; five months  
earlier.
Mr I was upset  theyd  added the marker. He said he hadnt tampered with the odometer and 
MotoNovos decision  to register a marker  with CIFAS had caused him significant  problems. 
Hed lost his job as an accountant and been  unable to maintain his accreditation  with a 
chartered accountants association. He said hed had his bank  account  closed; a credit card 
rescinded and had been denied a mortgage.
Unable to resolve  matters with MotoNovo he referred his complaint to this service  and our 
investigator provided his opinion.  He did not think there was clear  evidence the odometer 
had been tampered with. He noted  that a further  independent inspection had been  
completed in February 2013 and that the inspector had explained there  was no evidence  of 
the odometer being disturbed.  The inspector had gone  on to explain that it was possible to 
change the mileage without removing parts using modern methods. So, he concluded that 
the odometer reading was incorrect because either the odometer was defective, or it had 
been adjusted  by a specialist. 
The investigator also noted that in internal  email in April 2013 MotoNovo said, appears  no 
evidence of tampering . So, he thought thered been an acceptance then that there  wasnt  
sufficient evidence the odometer  had been  tampered with.
He thought the fairest solution was for MotoNovo to remove the CIFAS marker. Pay Mr I 
compensation of £2,000 in respect of the impact on his personal  and professional life and 
compensate him for loss of earnings. 
He noted that Mr I started work as an accountant  in November 2017 and his contract was 
terminated when  the CIFAS marker  was identified in February 2018. Hed been earning 
£30,000 a year at that point and had subsequently  provided information that he was now 
earning £9,575  per year. He thought  in the 15 months since  Mr I had lost his job it was clear 
hed lost earnings of £17,632 which he said MotoNovo should  therefore pay to Mr I.
MotoNovo didnt agree with the investigators  view. They  said there was sufficient evidence 
the odometer had been tampered with and they explained that when reviewing the MOT 
history of the car they had noted  that during  the 2015 test the odometer  hadnt been 
Ref: DRN46986872readable. They said this meant the car should not have  passed the MOT  - but somehow it 
had. 
MotoNovo went on to consider the compensation the investigator had suggested. They  
doubted the provenance of the letter of termination from Mr Is employer. They said there 
was no header or footer and that it didnt confirm the reason for the termination of Mr Is 
contract with them. They  didnt think it was reasonable to suggest,  on the basis of this letter, 
that there  was evidence  Mr Is contract  had been  terminated because of the CIFAs marker  or 
that there  was sufficient  evidence of his income  in that employment. They  therefore  asked 
for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I agree with the investigators findings  I dont currently agree with the way in which 
hes suggested MotoNovo compensate Mr I. Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
were MotoNovo right to report a CIFAS marker?
Theres no doubt there is a discrepancy  in the odometer readings. I say that because:
The mileage recorded at the MOT in December  2012 and at the retest  MOT a few 
days later was lower than the mileage recorded  during  the independent inspection on 
2 July 2012 where a photograph of the odometer reading was taken.
Whilst it is possible the mileage  was recorded  incorrectly during the MOT  I think  it 
becomes less likely  that it was recorded incorrectly twice  as I see the mileage 
recorded for the retest for the MOT, completed  a few days later, was also lower  than 
the mileage recorded  during the independent  inspection on 2 July 2012.
On 9 January  2013 Mr Is photograph of the odometer showed  the mileage to be 
75,250 which is also less than the mileage the odometer was showing in July 2012.
The trip meter reading on 2 July 2012 was 2092  miles  and on 9 January 2013  was 
890. That suggests the trip meter has been reset  at some  point between those two 
dates and the mileage covered  was at least 890 miles. But the odometer shows  a 
mileage covered of only 169 miles.
So, its clear there is a discrepancy in the odometer  readings. 
The National  Fraud Database Handbook  sets out the burden of proof  required for members 
to record information  with CIFAS. Amongst other  things it says that the evidence must be 
clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently  report the conduct of the 
Subject to the police.
Ref: DRN46986873So, a business cant apply a CIFAS marker  because  it suspects fraud.  For MotoNovo to 
report a CIFAS marker against Mr I, they would need to have sufficient evidence  to back up 
their allegation  and identify a criminal offence.  Theyd have to be able to demonstrate the 
odometer had been clocked by Mr I, or with his knowledge.
I can see they asked  an independent engineer to provide a report  on whether the odometer 
had been tampered with. His inspection  took place on 8 February  2013.  He said:
there does appear to be a discrepancy between the odometer  readings. The actual cause 
cannot be established at the time of our visit and specialist diagnostic  testing will need  to 
take place  by a suitably  equipped dealer. And 
there appear to be two likely causes: 1- the odometer system is defective,  its interesting 
to note as far as we are aware that this has not been reported and the trip did not appear 
inaccurate during  our testing 2- the odometer  system has been altered  by a suitably 
qualified equipped specialist to alter the mileage for reasons not clear
Having reviewed the odometer readings provided from before the 2 July 2012, including  the 
previous MOT mileage reports,  they seem consistent. I think its therefore clear  that the 
mileage was therefore either clocked between 2 July 2012  and the MOT date of 7 December 
2012, or that the odometer failed in this period. 
The independent engineer explained  that The actual  cause cannot be established at the 
time of our visit and specialist diagnostic testing will need to take place  by a suitably 
equipped dealer. This further specialist diagnosis did not take place and I am therefore  not 
persuaded that MotoNovo  had enough  evidence to eliminate the potential that the odometer 
may have  failed.
Having considered MotoNovos system  notes  I think its clear that their assessment of 
whether a CIFAS marker should be reported was not based on the independent experts 
evidence but was based on the mileage discrepancy that had been identified. I can see that 
in response to the message our investigator  noted  (above), where MotoNovo had suggested 
(in April 2013) there was no evidence  of tampering a further internal message clarified 
that they believed there  was. But that message  explained the reason for that was the 
disagreement in the odometer and trip meter readings. There was no consideration of the 
experts view and I think, if there was, MotoNovo would  have  wanted  to obtain a further  
specialist diagnosis to exclude the possibility the odometer had failed. 
But MotoNovo didnt do that and Im therefore  not persuaded that they had enough evidence 
to suggest Mr I had clocked the car. In those  circumstances I dont think it was fair of them to 
report the incident to CIFAS.
what compensation should Mr I receive?
Ive asked for more  information so that I could calculate Mr Is loss more  accurately and 
thats led me to suggest a slightly different redress than the investigator had proposed.
Ill consider each area of loss separately. 
loss of wages
Ref: DRN46986874Mr I was engaged  as an accountant in November 2017. Hes provided  a copy of that 
contract. 
His contract was terminated  on 9 February 2018. The reason given was that he failed to 
adhere to disclosure requirements.  I understand that MotoNovo dispute  the provenance of 
the letter of termination. 
Mr I has provided  information from HMRC that demonstrates he was working  for the 
company in question  and that the employment  terminated on 9 February  2018.
I asked Mr I for a bank statement for the period in question and I have seen  payments from 
the company including a payment made  on 23 February 2018 which Im persuaded is likely 
to be the final payment  and is what Id expect the termination payment would be after tax 
was deducted.
So, Im persuaded  that Mr I did have a job as an accountant that was terminated on the 
grounds that he hadnt adhered to disclosure requirements.
No further information has been provided  to explain what those disclosure requirements 
were. So, it may be that the disclosure was not related to CIFAS.
But I think its most likely it was. Mr I has explained  that he wasnt  aware of the CIFAS 
marker before it was raised by his employer. I dont think  an employer would be inclined to 
offer an accountant a role if he had an active fraud marker against his name. Im persuaded 
this would have  given cause for the business to terminate Mr Is contract. Im also persuaded 
that no other CIFAS markers  were  registered against Mr Is name  at that time as hes 
provided evidence  from CIFAS of that.
And, if it wasnt  the reason why the contract was terminated, I think  its still likely the marker 
would have prevented Mr I from obtaining work in the accountancy sector  in which  he was 
trained. And I think its reasonable  to suggest, if the CIFAS marker hadnt presented a bar to 
employment, Mr I could  attract a salary of £30,000 a year as that was the value of the 
contract he had that was terminated.
Mr I has provided  information to show that he has been working  as a taxi driver.  He also 
provided a copy of his 2018-2019 tax return which showed a gross income of £8,000. 
Im persuaded that he was therefore  earning £22,000 per year less after the CIFAS marker 
was applied. Mr I lost his job in February 2018 and the CIFAS marker was removed in May 
2019, a 15-month period. 
So, it would appear that his loss of income as a result of the CIFAS  marker being applied 
was about £27,500. But I dont think it would  be fair to tell MotoNovo to pay Mr I all that 
money.
I say that because I dont  think £8,000 is an average wage for a taxi driver of Mr Is limited  
experience and in his location. The average  salary  for a taxi driver in the UK is £19,783 
(source PayScale) and the range  of salaries  is from £12,000 to £39,000.  
I think Mr Is earnings  potential  wouldnt have  been in line with average earnings  because I 
note he works in a city where Id expect earnings  to be lower  than the UK average. Id also 
Ref: DRN46986875expect him to earn quite a bit less than average because  he was a new taxi driver. I think  a 
reasonable expectation would have been about £15,000 per year.
Mr Is earnings  may have been limited for other  reasons  such as a choice to work less hours  
or an unavailability of hours. But I dont think the income level being  below  £15,000 is as a 
result of the CIFAS marker. Im persuaded that it was likely Mr I could have earned £15,000.
I think MotoNovo should pay Mr I the difference in the income he was able to earn as an 
accountant less that he could have  earned  as a taxi driver and over a 15-month  period.  I 
calculate that as £18,750  (£15,000  loss per year over a 15-month  period).
membership of chartered accountants  association
Mr I has explained that he decided not to renew  his membership of this association  because 
he didnt think hed be approved due to the CIFAS marker. Im not persuaded theres  
evidence of any loss here as a failure to renew doesnt appear to demonstrate  loss of 
earnings.
bank accounts
Ive seen a letter, dated 31 October  2018, from a bank Mr I was applying  for an account with. 
The bank refused his application  and referred  him to CIFAS. Whilst its not explicitly 
mentioned I think its clear from the letter that the application has been  refused because of 
CIFAS information. I think that most  probably refers to the CIFAS marker MotoNovo applied, 
as Ive been provided with no other  reasonable explanation.
I dont think this is evidence of financial loss, but I do think its evidence Mr I has been 
inconvenienced by MotoNovos actions.
Ive seen a further  letter  from a bank  with whom Mr I had an account. This is dated  10 May 
2019 and is from the fraud department. It explains the banks decision to no longer offer an 
account to Mr I. 
Im not persuaded this is evidence of financial loss either. Im supported  in that finding  
because I can see the account balance was zero at the time the bank  wrote  to Mr I.
I do however, think its further evidence  of inconvenience caused to Mr I.
mortgage
Mr I has provided  evidence  of a mortgage offer that was made to him in June 2018. He says 
this was later withdrawn as a result of the bank becoming aware of the CIFAS marker. 
Ive not seen evidence that that was the reason for the mortgage being  withdrawn  so I dont 
think it would  be reasonable to consider that was the case.
other issues
Mr I has explained that there have  been  other problems as a result of the CIFAS marker,  but 
hes not provided any further  evidence, so Ive been unable  to consider those issues.
the redress
Ref: DRN46986876Ive thought about what proportionate compensation would be given the evidence of the 
impact the CIFAS marker has had on Mr I.
Mr I says he wasnt aware of the CIFAS marker when he accepted  the employment contract 
in November 2017. So, it seems he could not have experienced  any loss before that time.
As Ive explained above Im persuaded that fair compensation for loss of income would be 
£18,750.
But, as Ive also explained above, Mr I has been significantly inconvenienced by the 
presence of the marker. It would clearly  have been very distressing to have  learnt of the 
presence of the CIFAS marker  and to lose his job on the basis  of that. It seems  theres also 
been some  loss of reputation as hes not been able to work in the sector in which hes 
qualified. So, Ive considered what would be reasonable compensation for distress,  
inconvenience and loss of reputation and I think, in all the circumstances, a further  payment 
of £2,000 would be fair.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im expecting to tell FirstRand  Bank Limited  to pay Mr I;
£18,750 in respect  of loss of earnings as a result  of the inaccurate  reporting of the 
CIFAS marker;
£2,000 to compensate Mr I for the distress, inconvenience and loss of reputation  hes 
experienced;
they should also ensure that all record of the CIFAS marker is removed.
Neither party provided any further information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further  evidence  was provided  Ive not found any reason to change my provisional 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell FirstRand Bank Limited  to 
pay Mr I;
£18,750 in respect  of loss of earnings as a result  of the inaccurate  reporting of the 
CIFAS marker;
£2,000 to compensate Mr I for the distress, inconvenience and loss of reputation  hes 
experienced;
they should also ensure that all record of the CIFAS marker is removed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 September  2020.
Ref: DRN46986877Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4698687