K822xcomplaint 
Mr P has complained that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has unfairly increased 
the cost of his pet insurance policy each  year.  He says a new policy is much cheaper.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr P took out, will continue to cover  any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mr P. It has accepted 
the information it gave Mr P about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And 
RSA has offered to pay him £1,250 compensation for the trouble and upset hes been 
caused as a result of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation  in the 
circumstances of Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P told us hes not happy with the offer RSA has made. He says it uses  a mis-leading 
slogan to advertise its brand, and he received  a cheaper quote for the same policy online 
with the same provider.  He was also unable to get the new quote  from the same  provider in 
his name  and feels this is a deliberate  action  to stop customers  comparing quotes  for new 
and existing customers.
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost or how it 
presents information  to customers. I would be, in effect, determining  or telling a business 
how it should operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mr Ps policy  is too 
high, he should  have been charged less for the policy or that he should  be charged less in 
the future.
Ref: DRN43567472I can understand why Mr P would be disappointed he was unable  to get a quote as new 
customer in his own name. But new customers are entitled to a specific new customer 
discount that is not offered to existing customers. So I think its reasonable that the quoting  
system has this restriction.
While Mr Ps premium  has seen  significant increases, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated  him differently to how it would have treated any other  policyholder 
in the same position. So I cant tell RSA to charge him a lower  premium going forwards.
I appreciate Mr P found the same  policy cheaper  online, but this would not include  cover for 
any conditions his pet has had since he took out his current policy.  So its not comparing like 
for like cover. By providing  cover  for any health  problems Mr Ps pet has suffered from since  
he took the policy out, whether hes claimed  for them or not, RSA is taking  more  of a risk. So 
I would expect the premium to be more expensive than a new policy. If Mr P was willing to 
consider cover that excluded claims relating to his pets medical history, its likely cheaper  
policies would be available.
I understand this situation has caused  Mr P a significant amount of distress. He is unlikely to 
find equivalent cover  under  a different policy that covers anything he has claimed for in the 
past, or any conditions his pet has now. I also recognise that the premium  is likely to 
continue increasing  in future years.
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mr P the information he needed to understand he 
could end up in the position  he now finds himself in. Where I find something has gone  
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Mr P having cover for ongoing conditions  at a fixed  or capped premium  this 
type of policy typically  didnt exist. So it wouldnt be fair for me to put him in this position. 
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Mr P has experienced. 
It is a significant award and I think it fairly  compensates Mr P for the trouble and upset hes 
been caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mr P £1,250  compensation is fair 
and reasonable.  I dont  require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.  
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4356747