K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC has refused to refund a deposit  she paid 
using her Barclaycard.
background
In May 2018, Miss M and her partner agreed to purchase a motor home. Miss M paid the 
£2,000 deposit on a credit card issued to her by Barclays. No date was agreed for the 
collection of the motor home. A few days later, they also purchased a caravan home from a 
different dealership but made by the same manufacturer. They experienced several  
problems with the caravan and tried to claim under the manufacturers  warranty.  After  more 
defects came to light over a few months, they handed the caravan back  and received a 
settlement from the dealership in October  2018.  
As the motor home on which Miss M had paid a deposit was made by the same  
manufacturer, and there were signs of problems with it similar  to those theyd  experienced 
with the caravan, they cancelled the purchase  and asked for a return of the deposit. 
The retailer  explained the terms of the contract  said the deposit was non-refundable unless 
the contract  was cancelled under  Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA). They offered to allow  
Miss M  or her friends and family   to put the money towards the purchase of a caravan or 
motor home  with them. Miss M and her partner  were unhappy with that and raised a 
complaint with Barclays under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (section 75). 
Barclays looked into Miss Ms complaint and issued their final response in December 2018. 
They said,  in summary, there  was no valid claim under section 75 as the value of the motor  
home was greater than the financial limits contained in the Act. They  said there  may also be 
issues with the debtor,  creditor, supplier relationship necessary for such a claim, but they 
hadnt explored that in full due to the financial limit issues. They didnt uphold Miss Ms 
complaint. 
Miss M referred  her complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into it. She agreed 
with Barclays that due to the size of the overall transaction,  there was no valid claim under 
section 75. She explained  that we couldnt  look at a complaint against the dealer in these 
circumstances and could  only consider  this complaint against Barclays.
Barclays accepted  our investigators  opinion, but Miss M didnt. She said she wasnt sure 
what else she could have  done as she was concerned  about  the possibility of having the 
same problems with the motor home  as shed  had with the caravan. As there was no 
agreement, Miss Ms complaint was referred  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a great deal of empathy for Miss M and her partner in view of the problems they 
experienced with the caravan, and fully understand why they pulled out of the purchase  of 
the motor home given  the possibility of having to go through  the same process. But I cant 
look at the problems they encountered with the caravan or what might  have happened had 
they completed on the purchase of the motor home. And I cant look at any complaint 
brought against the retailer or manufacturer as our investigator pointed out. 
Ref: DRN47005272I can however, look at whether Barclays as the creditor  (the provider of the credit)  used to 
place the deposit on the motor home, have any obligation to refund it. Section 75 says that in 
some circumstances, the debtor (Miss M) may have an equal claim against the creditor as 
they have against the supplier of the goods (the motor home  retailer),  if theres been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the retailer. One of the circumstances that needs  
to apply is that the cash price of what is being  purchased needs  to be within the financial 
limits of section 75.
Miss M and her partner  say when that when they agreed to buy the motor  home,  they 
pointed out some defects  within it. And when they cancelled  the contract, they did so 
because the motor home was not of satisfactory  quality to meet  the standards  expected 
under the CRA. They believe therefore, theyre  entitled to a return of the deposit as allowed 
by the retailers  terms and conditions. As the retailer refused to return the deposit, Miss M 
made a complaint to Barclays under section 75, as she felt the retailer had breached the 
contract.
But a creditors obligations under  section  75, only apply to transactions where the value of 
the goods being purchased (not the amount of the credit transaction) is between £100  and 
£30,000. In this instance, the price agreed for the motor home was £56,190. Its clear  
therefore that its outside the scope of section 75. For this reason, there is no basis  on which  
I can reasonably ask Barclays to refund the deposit  to Ms M. 
Miss M and her partner  clearly feel very strongly  that the retailer  has done something wrong. 
But as Ive already explained, I dont have the power  to consider the actions  of the retailer  as 
they havent provided a financial service which falls within  our rules. Miss M may wish to 
pursue the retailer  through other avenues, such as the courts.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4700527