K822xComplaint
Mr H has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly increased 
the cost of his pet insurance policy. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr H took out, will continue  to cover  any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mr H. It has accepted 
the information it gave Mr H about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And 
RSA has offered to pay him £1000 compensation for the trouble and upset hes been caused 
as a result  of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances 
of Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H has told us he is not happy with the offer RSA has made. 
Its important to be clear that businesses  are entitled to decide how much to charge for the 
insurance cover they provide, and I dont have the power  to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mr Hs policy  is too high or he 
should have been charged  less for the policy.
While Mr Hs premium  has seen a significant increase, I havent  seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated  him differently to how it would have treated any other  policyholder 
in the same position. So I cant say RSA has singled him out and treated him unfairly 
compared to its other customers or that RSA needs  to offer him cover  for a lower  premium 
going forwards. 
I understand Mr H will be disappointed  with this. I recognise that the situation has caused  
him significant upset  and hes had to cancel his pets insurance losing cover for any existing 
medical conditions.  
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mr H the information he needed  to understand he 
could end up in the position  he now finds himself in. Where I find something has gone  
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
Ref: DRN46555482Mr H says that he wouldnt  have  taken the lifetime  policy if hed known  the premiums  could  
increase so significantly. But its hard to know what he what he would have done back in 
2013. Of course, with the benefit  of hindsight we now know he may have been better off not 
taking a policy at all - or taking an annual policy that wouldnt cover  ongoing conditions. And 
I accept its possible he may have chosen one of these options if RSA had given him better 
information. 
But I cant say its more  likely than not he wouldnt have taken the lifetime policy  even if RSA 
had made  it clear the premiums could increase significantly. While Mr H didnt need to make 
a huge amount of claims and it doesnt look like his pet had any ongoing conditions,  he 
wouldnt have known  this when taking out the policy. The nature of insurance is to protect  
against what might happen in the unknown future. 
Mr H chose to take out pet insurance,  so he wanted  some type of cover for his pet. And, as 
he chose to take out a lifetime policy, he clearly had some  interest  in the greater level of 
cover it provided. So I think its just as likely that Mr H would have still taken the policy out 
knowing the possibility  it might become too expensive for him to carry on with it in the future.
Mr H is also unhappy as he says he didnt receive  any documentation regarding  his renewal 
in 2018 and so was unaware of the increased costs.  He says if hed known he would have 
cancelled immediately - instead he paid for three months before cancelling.  Ive seen a copy  
of a correctly addressed  letter dated  about four weeks before his renewal date. It clearly sets 
out the new premium  and what  to do if you no longer want  the insurance. I have no reason 
to think this wasnt sent. So I think its likely RSA did write to let him know prior to renewal of 
the increased cost and how to cancel. Although I accept he might not have received this, I 
dont think thats  RSAs fault.  
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the trouble and upset  Mr H has experienced. 
It is a significant award and I think it fairly  compensates Mr H.
My final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mr H £1000  compensation is fair 
and reasonable.  I dont  require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN4655548