K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about a car he is financing  through an agreement  with Close Brothers 
Limited (Close Brothers).  He says it wasnt of satisfactory quality when he took receipt  of it.
background
Mr H took receipt of a used car in February 2018. He financed the deal through  a conditional 
sale agreement with Close Brothers.  The car was first registered  in 2009 and at the point of 
supply it had already  covered 109,000  miles.
Within the first few weeks Mr H had problems  with the car. The engine management light 
(EML) came  on and several visits to a couple  of different garages led to the replacement of 
the turbo and the exhaust gas recirculation (EGR)  valve. The diesel particulate filter (DPF) 
was also terra cleaned.
Mr H had to return the car to the garage  on several occasions when the repairs didnt work. 
In April 2018 a final repair was completed and the car appears to have worked well until, in 
late May 2018, Mr H complained that the problems had returned.
A diagnostic  was completed but no faults were found and the issues Mr H complained  about 
could not be replicated.
Close Brothers rejected  Mr Hs complaint as they said there  was nothing more  they could do 
and there  was no longer a fault.
So Mr H brought  his complaint to this service  and our adjudicator provided his opinion. He 
noted that no faults were now present and he wasnt persuaded there was a fault with the 
vehicle at the point of supply so he didnt support Mr Hs complaint.
But Mr H was still dissatisfied so he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H but I agree with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired  his car under a conditional  sale agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers  are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
Ref: DRN40850722The EML problem came  to light very soon after Mr H took receipt of the car. I can see that 
within the first month he appears to have been back to the dealership  on three  occasions.  So 
Im persuaded this fault was most likely there  at the point of supply; when  Close Brothers 
had responsibility  for the cars quality. Im satisfied that Close  Brothers took sufficient  action 
here. The relevant  legislation entitled them to repair the fault and they endeavoured to do so. 
Im also persuaded  that its most likely  that fault wasnt  rectified initially. Mr H complained 
that the problem had returned in March and again  in April and I can see that Close  Brothers 
continued to support him. 
Ive thought about whether it would  have been  reasonable for them  to allow Mr H to reject 
the vehicle at this point  but Im persuaded that wasnt necessary. The car had completed in 
excess of 100,000  miles  and was about nine years old at the time. I think  some problems 
can be expected  on a car of that age and mileage so I think rejection would have been a 
disproportionate action  and I think it was fair to allow Close Brothers  some  time to resolve 
the issues. Mr H appears to have agreed  to this anyway.
The final repairs were completed in April and whilst Ive seen that Mr H continues  to dispute 
the repair I think its likely that it was successful. I say that because the diagnostic  didnt  
highlight any issues and it appears  they couldnt  replicate the faults Mr H complained  of.
In those circumstances I think Close Brothers have taken  sufficient action  and I wont be 
directing them to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4085072