K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Gain Credit  LLC  trading  as Lending Stream  - irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about six instalment loans Lending  Stream provided to Mr C between          
February 2011 and February 2012. Mr Cs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date  Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Max Repayment
1 09-Feb-11 22-Jul-11 5 £100 £55.00
2 07-Apr-11 15-Sep-11 5 £165 £130.74
3 23-May-11 12-Apr-12 6 £185 £203.38
4 14-Jan-12 07-Jun-13 5 £145 £79.75
5 27-Jan-12 16-Apr-13 4 £95 £108.25
6 09-Feb-12 07-Jun-13 6 £255 £224.88
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Cs complaint and thought  loan 6 shouldnt  have been 
given because the overall pattern of Mr Cs borrowing indicated he was reliant on these 
loans and the borrowing was becoming unsustainable. Lending Stream didnt respond to the 
assessment. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally it was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure      
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  
a higher repayment from a level of income); 
Ref: DRN44893542the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint. Having done  so, I am partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint  about loans 1 to 5. Mr C hasnt provided any 
further evidence  or arguments for us to consider, so I wont be making any further findings 
on these loans because  they no longer appear  to be in dispute. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Lending  Streams lending history  with Mr C, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Lending  Stream should reasonably have seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Lending  Stream  should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 6. I say 
this because:
At this point Lending Stream ought  to have  realised  Mr C was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably.  Mr C had taken  out six loans in a year and had three loans still 
outstanding when loan 6 was taken. So, it should have  realised it was more  likely than 
not Mr C was having to borrow  further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was 
leaving in his finances and that Mr Cs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Cs first loan was for £100  and loan 6 was for £255   which  was the highest amount 
borrowed. At this point  Lending Stream ought to have known  that it was unlikely  Mr C was 
borrowing to meet  a temporary shortfall  in his income  but more to meet  an ongoing need. 
Mr C wasnt making any real inroads to the amount  he owed Lending Stream. As 
mentioned above, Mr C had been indebted to Lending Stream for 12 months and was 
borrowing a larger  amount. Mr C had paid large  amounts  of interest  to, in effect; service 
a debt to Lending  Stream over an extended period.
Ref: DRN44893543I think that Mr C lost out because Lending Stream continued to provide borrowing at loan 6 
because:
This loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
The length of time over which Mr C borrowed  was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Cs ability to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market 
for these high-cost  loans.
putting things right  what Gain Credit LLC needs to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr C paid on loan 6;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
any information  recorded about  loan 6 is adverse. So, all entries  about  this loan should 
be removed from Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Gain Credit LLC to take off tax from this interest. Gain  Credit  LLC 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Cs complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4489354