K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) debited his account  for an amount of 
5000 Swiss Francs,  but the intended value of the transaction was only 500 Swiss Francs.  
Mr M is unhappy  Barclays wont  refund to him the difference between the two amounts.
background
Mr M doesnt dispute he was due to make a payment. The payment was for a speeding fine 
he was given when  he was driving  in Switzerland. Its also not disputed  that Mr M made  the 
payment himself, using  his genuine  card by placing it in a payment terminal and by then 
entering his personal  identification number (PIN).  
Mr M says the payment terminal wasnt fully visible, but it wasnt  a consideration for him to 
look at what was presented on the terminals screen. He says he was dealing  with a 
government body, was told the payment was for 500 Swiss  Francs and he was given a 
document showing that amount was payable. Mr M has produced that document.
When Mr M was back in the UK though,  he found  that 5000  Swiss Francs had been debited  
from his account. He questioned this with the bank, but he was denied  any form of refund 
because Barclays had said hed entered his PIN to authorise the transaction. And he was 
later provided with a copy of what is essentially the same document as he held, but this one 
obtained by Barclays  from the Swiss police, and showing 5000.
Mr M said the document showing 5000  had clearly  been manipulated and there was also an 
issue with a reference number that was on it. He says that there are also witnesses to him 
being led to believe  that the fine would be 500 Swiss Francs.
Our investigator considered whether Mr M had consented to make the payment. He said 
entering a PIN into a payment  terminal  wasnt,  itself,  enough for him to say the payment was 
authorised but as Mr M did so, knowing he was making a payment but without checking the 
details on the terminal screen, he said the payment for 5000  Swiss Francs was authorised  
and Barclays was entitled to debit his account for that amount and not reverse  it later.
The investigator also considered whether Mr M might have a potential claim under Section  
75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974.  However, for such  a claim to succeed, Mr M 
would have to be able to show there had been  some  form of breach of contract or 
misrepresentation that led to Mr M not receiving  the goods and/or services he was expecting 
to receive in return for the payment. The investigator  didnt think the circumstances relating 
to this payment  gave  rise to Mr M being able to make  any such  successful  claim.  
Barclays also raised a chargeback claim against the Swiss police. The police defended the 
claim and provided the document  I referred to earlier, which  showed  the figure of 
5000 Swiss Francs.  The investigator said he was satisfied the document provided by the 
Swiss police was genuine despite  the issue of the different reference number. He didnt 
consider there was adequate evidence  of the document  provided  by the Swiss police being 
doctored.
And finally, the investigator contacted  the Swiss police  directly and it replied to say Mr M 
paid the correct amount. And it had confirmed this in a letter  dated 14 December 2018. 
Ref: DRN42052962The investigator concluded that Barclays didnt  have to refund the difference between  500 
and 5000 Swiss Francs  although he did reconsider the complaint. But he remained  of the 
same view, despite taking  into account  Mr Ms further representations, including  what he 
said about the investigator  not contacting the witnesses to the payment being made, and 
what Mr M said about why entry of the PIN shouldnt be pivotal in a matter  like this, given 
how payments at petrol pumps work.
Mr M has asked  for an ombudsman to review  his complaint. He says the investigator unduly 
accepted the veracity  of the polices  evidence, suggesting this may have been  because of 
whose evidence it was. He restated that the police altered the document  from 500 to 5000; 
its being untruthful; and he never  received the letter of 14 December 2018. He understood 
there were other cases of the Swiss police acting unfairly towards British citizens.  
He remains concerned about the investigators  acceptance  of the incorrect collection receipt 
number and also that he didnt seek evidence from people he was with at the time. He said 
that he couldnt accept the relevance  here of him having entered  the PIN, given the manner 
in which  people provide advance authorisation  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Ive considered this complaint from the angle of whether Mr M is entitled to the refund 
that hes seeking from Barclays, despite  him accepting he entered his PIN into the payment 
terminal and it may well have been showing 5000 Swiss Francs,  on the basis  that the 
amount he says he should  have paid was 500 Swiss Francs.
In short,  Im afraid theres no basis on which I can conclude that Barclays  needs  to make 
that refund.  Ill explain in more detail but, simply,  the matter  of a payer authorising a bank to 
make a payment  transaction to a payee has no link to the relationship that exists between 
the payer and payee, even if, as in this case,  the payer is saying the payee,  intentionally  or 
otherwise, took an action  that resulted in an incorrect  payment  being made.
The relevant  regulations  here are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These establish 
that in respect  of a payment there  exists  a:
payment service user  a person when making use of a payment service as a payer 
or payee, or both
payment service provider  a business  carrying out payment services such as a bank 
or credit provider
payment order   the instruction by a PSU to their respective  PSP requesting the 
execution of a payment  transaction.
The regulations also define a:
payment transaction  an act initiated  by the payer or payee,  or on behalf  of the 
payer, of placing, transferring or withdrawing funds,  irrespective of any underlying 
obligations between  the payer and payee;
payment instrument  any personalised device or set of procedures agreed  between 
the PSU and the PSP, and used by the PSU to initiate a payment order.
Ref: DRN42052963The regulations say a payment service user, in this case Mr M, is liable  for authorised  
transactions. And they say:
1)A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised  by the payer   only 
if the payer has given  its consent to
a)the execution  of the payment transaction; or
b)the execution  of a series of payment transactions of which that payment 
transaction forms part.
2)Such consent 
b) must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between  the 
payer and its PSP.
So, a payment transaction is authorised if the payer has given his consent  to the execution 
of it by using the form and procedure that has been agreed upon  between the payer  and his 
PSP. And the concept of giving consent is a formal one  if the payment  service user uses 
the agreed form and procedure  for making payment orders they have given consent  to the 
execution of the payment transaction. 
Whether someone has given consent  or not is objective, its not about what  the payment 
service user subjectively  knew, whether  the payment transaction was fully explained to 
them, or indeed   as suggested  here  whether  a payment is processed for a different 
amount than a separate agreement suggested would be processed.  
This all means that when  a payer gives  a payment order, the underlying relationship  or the 
obligations between  the payer and payee are, Im afraid, irrelevant  the payment 
transaction is independent of any underlying obligations. Indeed, the payment order requires 
that the payment be made without  regard to whether the payee has any right to receive  it or 
an obligation  to return it. And the payment service provider must promptly and accurately  
execute any authorised payment order unless executing it would be unlawful.
So, what  this means for Mr Ms complaint,  as Ive already said Im afraid, is that the payment 
he made to the Swiss police was properly  authorised and theres no basis on which I can 
ask Barclays to refund it, or a portion of it, based  on the legitimacy  or otherwise - of the 
payments authorisation. This also explains why Mr Ms concerns about this payment in 
relation to those  where we pay at pump are not relevant here.
Of course,  there  are mechanisms in place for the payer to seek redress where a payment 
has been made and something has gone  wrong in the relationship that lies below the need  
for the payment to be made. Those  mechanisms were referred to by the investigator and 
they are the section  75 protection afforded by the CCA 1974 and the chargeback process.  
In the case of the former type of protection, I agree that there has to have been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation on the part of the police for Mr M to be able to succeed  with a 
section 75 claim. But before  you get to thinking about any such  consideration, the legislation 
requires any such claim to be in relation to a transaction financed  by the agreement. 
Ive taken into account the provisions  of the legislation, including  definitions of words  where  
they exist, and the underlying reason for the payment.  And Im afraid that I dont interpret 
there to have been the necessary goods/services provided to Mr M by the police, financed 
by the credit granted by Barclays, for Mr M to be able to make  any section 75 claim.
Ref: DRN42052964Im left therefore to consider the second form of protection Ive referred to, that of the 
chargeback process.  Barclays processed the chargeback  claim for Mr M, on the basis  that:
I only authorised  one transaction but was charged more 
I, or any additional cardholders authorised one transaction with the merchant for SF500 but 
not for SF5000.  Our card(s) were in our possession when the disputed transaction took 
place. Ive enclosed  a copy of my sales voucher  to support this or information  on why I dont 
have this.
The police replied  to Barclays by producing the document that Mr M has also produced  a 
copy of, and which shows the fine as being  5000 Swiss Francs   unlike the document  that 
Mr M produced which, on the face of it, showed the fine as being 500 Swiss Francs.
This matter, ultimately, is fairly straightforward  for me to come  to a conclusion  about. Mr M 
has submitted a lot of evidence and arguments  which relate  to his assertions about  the 
general treatment of that police force in respect  of individuals  caught speeding; about fines 
given to associates of Mr M, about  the wider  circumstances  in which  the fine was given and, 
for instance, the layout of the police station. 
Im also very mindful of what Mr M says about the evidence in this matter, the different 
sources of the evidence  and how it would be inappropriate for the police to be believed 
automatically and their version of events deemed  credible, without question,  and his not.
But its important here to note that Im considering a complaint about the bank, whether it 
carried out the chargeback process  properly  and whether its conclusion  not to refund Mr M 
at the end of the chargeback process  was fair and reasonable. Im not investigating the 
actions of the police, either in this matter  or with a view to commenting more  widely  on its 
approach to levying  fines  against  individuals who are caught driving beyond the speed limit.  
So, my focus is therefore entirely on the evidence  in support of the payment made, the 
document thats been submitted to the bank both by Mr M to support the chargeback claim 
and by the Swiss police  to defend the claim. Its clear to me, and seemingly not in dispute, 
that both pieces of evidence  are the same  document, having the same reference  number 
and with most sections  being completed identically, both in terms of the written  content itself 
and the style that the content  is recorded.  
But the same document does differ  in that Mr Ms version showed, for the amount payable, 
the number (in digits)  500, but also then had the word cinq next to it. The version 
submitted by the Swiss police  has, stylistically, the same 500 recorded but then also 
another 0. It then has, in words, cinq written in the same style as it is on the document 
submitted by Mr M, and in the same  place, but also the word mille immediately afterwards.
Given I accept the evidence of both parties  is based  on what  is actually the same  document,  
I have to also accept  that one of the parties documents  has been altered in some way. And 
thats crucial to the outcome of the chargeback claim. But to be clear, first, I can never know 
with absolute certainty which evidence is genuine. Both parties in this matter  assert  that their 
evidence is so. So I can only come  to a judgement about what I think is most likely.
Second, I want to reassure Mr M that I dont  start from a position of assuming that Mr Ms 
evidence is not genuine simply because the other  party,  whose evidence  Im looking at, is 
the police. It is, of course, entirely possible,  however unlikely it may be argued,  that the 
Ref: DRN42052965police were acting  improperly or even simply made a mistake in processing the payment for 
5000 Swiss Francs,  meaning only to process  500 Swiss Francs. 
That said,  however,  if it was the latter,  I do have  to consider why the police wouldnt, simply, 
in those circumstances acknowledge its error  and refund 4500  Swiss Francs.
So, in deciding what I think  is most likely here,  I return to how the two documents differ. The 
document that the police  submitted says 5000 in numbers  and, in words, the French 
equivalent of five thousand.  Whereas, the document submitted by Mr M says 500 and, in 
words, the French equivalent  of five. 
Theres a lack of reconciliation  between the numbers and words  in the evidence of Mr M that 
I cant ignore and which suggests  that Mr Ms document has less credibility.  Also, the 
manner in which the numbers and words  are set out do suggest that some have been 
removed. That said, Im of course mindful  that its not impossible that the evidence  was 
provided to Mr M in the form he says it was with the polices plan being  to later add in the 0 
and the word mille, after taking 5000  Swiss  Francs  when saying it would only be taking 500. 
But that would have been a risky approach as it relied on Mr M being given a document that, 
in itself, didnt  make sense and could have been questioned at the time. And without 
suggesting that those circumstances are impossible, they dont seem to me to be most likely.    
In any event, I dont have to come  to a view about  whats certainly happened here; or even 
the extent to which I believe a scenario to be most likely. The determination I have  to make 
is as to whether  I can fairly and reasonably say that the bank was entitled to take a view 
about the polices defence of the chargeback claim,  based on the evidence before it, such  
that the bank was then justified in not progressing the chargeback  claim to another level.
And I think the bank  was entitled to not think there  was a sufficiently  reasonable prospect of 
Mr Ms chargeback claim succeeding, based on the evidence it had supporting  the claim and 
defence, such  that it neednt  take further  action beyond receiving the defence.  
In light of what Ive said about everything here,  I dont consider theres  any basis for me to 
ask Barclays to refund to Mr M the value of the transaction  he disputes authorising.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Ray Neighbour
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4205296