K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Covea Insurance plc didnt offer a fair valuation when he made  a claim 
on his motor insurance after his car was written off.
background
Mr M insures  his car with Covea. Unfortunately, his car was damaged so he made a claim. 
Covea said the car wasnt economic to repair  bearing in mind the cost of repairs  and the 
value of the car  so it was written  off. 
Covea offered Mr M £985 as a cash settlement for the value of his car, but Mr M wasnt 
happy with that. He said the adverts  hed seen were for at least  £2,000.  So he complained.
Our investigator thought Coveas valuation was fair. Mr M didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy says that if the car is written off, Covea  will give him the market value. It 
defines market  value as:
The cost of replacing your car with one of the same  make, model, specification, year, 
mileage and condition.  In assessing the market value of your car, we may refer to 
insurance industry recognised guides of vehicle values as well as searching for 
available vehicles being offered for sale to the general public.
Covea looked  at two industry  guides, which offered valuations which  were  fairly similar. The 
higher of the two was £985, and thats the figure  Covea offered Mr M.
I think thats fair. Its not possible to get a valuation thats completely precise; it can only ever 
be an estimate. The industry guides are based on detailed data from actual sales and I think 
theyre a reasonably accurate method of estimating  value. Weve  checked the guides and 
found the same figures Covea did. A third guide, which it didnt use, showed  a figure that 
was slightly higher but in the same  general  range. Because of the volume of sales the 
guides take into account, they can provide an estimated value based on the exact model and 
mileage.
Mr M has shown  us a series of adverts for sale of cars like his, with prices ranging  from 
£2,000 upwards. Equally,  Covea  and, later, our investigator  were  able to find other  
adverts for similar cars at prices in line with Coveas  valuation.
None of these  adverts  were for cars identical to Mr Ms  either  age, or mileage, or exact 
model, or some combination of those, were different.  And adverts for sale show the 
advertised price - not the selling  price.  I therefore  think the adverts  are less reliable than the 
guides, though the fact that some adverts  are similar to the guide price  shows  that it is 
possible to find similar cars for sale in that price range.
Ref: DRN45236682Mr M says his car was of a high specification, with many extras.  They were taken into 
account in the guide  valuation. But the reality  is that many optional extras dont add value to 
a second hand car, and so make  little or no difference to the overall price.
Having taken everything into account, therefore, I dont think  it would be fair to uphold  this 
complaint. I think,  in the circumstances, the valuation Covea offered Mr M was a far one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4523668