K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Allianz Insurance  Plc (Allianz), as the insurer, should 
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to Allianz  as the seller  
in my decision.
Mr M says Allianz mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mr M took out with a store charge card in 1998. It was 
added to his account when he applied  for the card in the store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Allianz had to make it clear to Mr M that the policy was optional and get his consent  before 
PPI could  be applied  to the account.  Allianz  has said the optional  nature of the policy was 
made clear. Ive been given a copy of the application  form completed at the time of the sale 
and I can see that there is a section for the PPI. The box has been ticked to confirm the 
cover is required and Mr Ms name  has been printed  in the box to show  he is the person to 
be insured. If Mr M didnt want to take out the PPI, he could have  left the box blank.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely that Allianz made  it clear  the policy  was 
optional and Mr M chose to take it out, knowing  he could refuse  it if he didnt want it.
Allianz has said it didnt  recommend  the policy to Mr M and, as I havent seen anything to 
make me think otherwise, I think thats  likely  to be right. So it didnt have  to check if the policy  
was right for him. But Allianz  did need  to make sure if gave Mr M clear enough information 
about the policy to enable him to decide  for himself if he should take the policy.
Its possible the information Allianz gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. But even  if Allianz had given him better or clearer information, I dont  think it 
would have made a difference.  I still think he would have  taken  the policy.  I say this because 
Mr M was eligible  for the policy and he wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the 
cover, such  as having unusual working arrangements or a medical condition of which he was 
already aware.
Mr M has told us that he didnt need the policy as he was entitled to six months full sick pay 
followed by six months half pay from his employer if he was too ill to work.  But the PPI policy 
could have paid out 15% of the outstanding balance until he could return to work or until the 
balance was cleared  whichever came first. And this would be in addition  to any sick pay 
Ref: DRN45958812benefits he received  and potentially would pay out for longer  than he would receive full sick 
pay. And the policy would  also provide cover if he was to lose his job. As Mr M didnt have 
any other means with which to make his repayments if he was to become unemployed, I 
think this policy could  have provided  a useful  benefit to him.
So, when taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr M has lost out as a result  of 
anything that Allianz may have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4595881