K820x#14complaint
Ms B is unhappy with the advice she received to transfer her existing final salary  pension 
scheme to a personal  pension plan with Phoenix  Life Assurance Limited. Ms B says her 
pension fund would have been  bigger if shed left it where it was. She wants Phoenix to put 
this right.  
Ms Bs complaint is made, on her behalf, by her representative, Mr B. 
background
Ms B had a pension  plan from a previous employer. She left that job in 1986. In 1991 she 
met with a representative  of a company which is now known  as Phoenix Life Assurance 
Limited. For simplicity, I will just refer to Phoenix throughout my decision. 
Phoenix advised Ms B to transfer her existing pension to one of its pension plans. During 
2000 Phoenix reviewed  this advice as part of the industry wide Pension Review set up by 
the then regulator. At the beginning  of 2001  Phoenix  wrote to Ms B explaining that the 
outcome of this review  had shown she hadnt  lost out by transferring her previous plan 
benefits to the new plan.  
In 2004 Ms B wrote  to Phoenix asking if the transfer advice she got was right. She asked for 
her Phoenix pension plan to be reviewed again. Phoenix explained that the previous review  
had already compared the future value of Ms Bs former employers scheme with those of 
her current  plan. In a separate letter Phoenix  repeated that the original review concluded 
that Ms B hadnt suffered a loss as a result of the transfer advice. 
In 2017 Ms B complained  to Phoenix about the advice to transfer her final salary scheme to 
its pension plan. It rejected her complaint.  Phoenix pointed out that the transfer  advice had 
already been reviewed  as per its letters in 2001 and 2004. Phoenix explained it wasnt  
required by the regulator to re-visit cases where it had already been looked  at under the 
pension review. 
Ms B wasnt happy with Phoenixs reply,  so she brought her complaint to us. Ms B included  
calculations showing there was a loss when  comparing her benefits. Phoenix confirmed that 
it consented to us looking into this complaint even though the pension review  was carried  out 
some years before. 
One of our adjudicators looked  this complaint.  She said that while  Ms Bs calculations  may 
show a loss, our service needed  to look at whether the calculations were  in line with the 
requirements of the pension  review. Our adjudicator thought  Phoenix  had met its obligations 
under the pension review, so she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr B replied  saying, in summary, that Ms B hasnt  been treated fairly, and it was clear  that 
shed lost out  through no fault of her own  due to the transfer  advice from Phoenix.  Mr B 
also questioned  if the pension review  had been  carried out correctly. 
Our adjudicator then provided Mr B with a copy of Phoenixs pension review calculations.  
Mr B raised nine individual issues with these calculations. The adjudicator  passed these 
queries on to Phoenix and in turn, sent its response to Mr B. She also told him that we dont 
provide a calculation checking service. But she did say that the basic inputs looked  correct 
and the software  used  for the calculations was approved by the regulators. The adjudicator 
Ref: DRN46910552pointed out that pension  providers who were carrying out reviews,  such  as Phoenix, were 
subject to independent quality inspections.  
As Mr B, on behalf of Ms B didnt accept our adjudicators view, the case  was passed to me 
for a final decision.  I looked at all the available evidence and arguments that all the parties 
had provided. I then tried to resolve  the complaint informally.  I asked the adjudicator to 
contact Mr B explaining my thinking  about this case. In summary, the adjudicator explained 
why I thought Phoenix had carried out the pension review correctly, especially in relation to 
the nine individual points Mr B had questioned.  
Mr B then questioned the accuracy  of one aspect of Phoenixs pension review.  It had used a 
normal pension age of 60 for Ms B. But Mr B thought that the rules  of Ms Bs former 
employers pension plan showed she had a normal pension age earlier than this  this 
meant there  was no doubt the pension  review was wrong. 
We queried this with both the administrator of Ms Bs former pension  scheme,  and also the 
Trustees of that pension  scheme. Mr B also contacted the Trustees.  He confirmed to us that 
Ms Bs case was that the pension  review  had used the wrong  normal  pension age of 60 
when she was entitled to an earlier normal pension age as the rules  clearly state.  He said 
this meant  Phoenix  must carry out another review using up to date guidance  and 
methodology. 
The Trustees of Ms Bs former pension  scheme provided us with copies of various pension 
scheme rules. Mr B also got a copy of all of these.  The Trustees also sent us a statement 
which said, again in summary, that Ms Bs normal retiring  age was 60. 
A copy of this statement was sent to Mr B. One of our adjudicators asked him, on my behalf, 
that as I remained  satisfied the pension  review had been carried  out correctly, did he still 
want to pursue this complaint on behalf of Ms B. Mr B confirmed he wanted a formal  final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  and in my own 
words. Im not going  to respond  to every single point  made by all the parties involved. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what  I think are the key issues 
here: did Phoenix carry out the review of Ms Bs pension transfer correctly at the end of 2000  
/ beginning  of 2001; and, was Phoenix right to use a normal pension  age of 60 for Ms B in 
that review? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome. 
I also want to make it clear that my decision hasnt looked at whether Ms Bs original pension  
from her former employer would have  given her a bigger pension than her plan with Phoenix.  
That may well be the case. If it is, I certainly  do sympathise with the position  that Ms B finds  
herself in. 
Ref: DRN46910553But thats not what I need to look at. The regulator recognised  some  years ago that there  
had been historic problems with some  pension transfer advice. Thats why the Pension 
Review process was set up. This was to be a one-off exercise.  It wasnt  designed to provide 
a continuous review of how pensions were  performing. The review was to try and ensure 
Ms B wouldnt lose out by transferring  her former  employers pension  plan to Phoenix. 
But the problem  was that when the review was carried out, it was still some  years before 
Ms B was due to retire. This meant  the calculations were based  on a number of necessary 
assumptions. The then regulator set out how the calculations were to be done and what 
assumptions all firms had to use when  assessing any potential  loss. 
Unfortunately, those assumptions  havent been borne out over the reality of subsequent 
years. In particular, annuity rates have fallen significantly. This has had a big impact on 
pension benefits.  But the aim of the Pension  Review was effectively to draw a line under any 
pension mis-selling and put matters right, if need be, at that time. 
Although, at the time it carried  out the review,  Phoenix found  Ms B hadnt suffered a loss, 
that position may well be different now. But this doesnt mean  Phoenix  has to do anything 
further. If the review  was carried  out correctly, as set out by the then regulator,  it wouldnt  be 
fair or reasonable  for me to tell Phoenix, nearly  two decades later, to revisit this issue.  This is 
why, as Ive said above,  Ive focussed  on whether it did carry out the review correctly.  
Ive looked at the calculations made  by Phoenix  during its review of Ms Bs transfer. A copy  
of these calculations  was shared with Mr B. He set out nine individual  reasons why he 
thought the review contained mistakes. I wont repeat all these points here.  Both Mr B and 
Phoenix are fully aware of the details. 
Our service gave Phoenix the opportunity to reply  to these nine points. I reviewed its 
answers. I then set out my thinking about this complaint  in an email  to Mr B. This was in an 
attempt to bring this matter to a close without needing a formal decision.  I told Mr B that for 
seven of the points I was satisfied the correct  information  had been  used by Phoenix.  Mr B 
hasnt questioned this further. I remain satisfied here that the correct information was used. 
For another of his points, Mr B had said he was waiting for some  missing information from 
the scheme Trustees to clear up this point.  I told Mr B that based on the available  evidence I 
didnt think this would affect the validity of the review. Having reviewed this information  
afresh, my thinking hasnt  changed. The point in question   and the missing information  
relates to the amount paid to a members estate  and to widows  pension. I remain satisfied 
that this doesnt  affect the accuracy  of Phoenixs review. 
The last remaining point  concerned Ms Bs normal retirement date. I explained  why I thought  
Phoenix had used the correct age of 60. But Mr B continued to question this. He says that 
the scheme rules  applying  to his mother included transitional provisions that gave her the 
right to retain more  generous benefits  after the scheme merged with another one in 1983. 
This included Ms B having the right to normal pension age earlier than 60. 
 As Ive already  said,  Mr B has explained  that Ms Bs case  is that Phoenix was wrong to use 
a normal pension age of 60. He asked for time to seek further clarification  on this point from 
the scheme Trustees. I was happy to accommodate his request. 
Ref: DRN46910554The Trustees have  since confirmed in a detailed statement why it believes Ms Bs normal  
retirement age is 60. This statement has been  shared  with Mr B. In brief, Mr B has told us 
that the below extract,  which deals with the transitional provisions, shows that Ms B has a 
right to a normal pension age earlier than age 60. 
APPENDIX B
Part I                              Rule 6(3)
The clauses  and rules of the Staff Scheme and the Industrial Staff 
Scheme (including any clauses, rules or appendices mentioned in those
clauses or rules) to be applied in respect  of a Member  to whom Rule
6(3) applies:
Staff  Industrial
Scheme  Staff Scheme
clause 46(1)   clause 48 right to a Normal Pension Age
earlier  than  that under the defini-
- provisos (i)  and (a)  to tion of Normal  Pension Age as set
definition of normal out in Clause 46.
retiring age
Mr B has told us that it doesnt matter what actual normal  pension  age Ms B was entitled to, 
the above shows it was earlier than age 60, so Phoenix was wrong to use this age in its 
review of her pension transfer. But I dont agree with his interpretation. 
The above  extract  is split into three  columns.  The first column lists the relevant  clause  
reference number  relating  to the old Staff  Scheme. Similarly, the second column lists the 
clause reference  number for the old Industrial Staff Scheme. It was these two schemes that 
merged to form the current scheme. 
The third column is a description of what subject those clauses relate  to. In this case,  the 
clauses relate to a members right to an earlier normal pension age than the typical 65 for 
men and 60 for women.  The third column doesnt  mean there is an automatic right to an 
earlier normal pension age. It just details what are the relevant clauses that set out who 
would qualify for such a right. For Ms B, the relevant clauses would have been provisos (i) 
and (a) of the definition of Normal Pension Age under clause 46(1)  of the staff scheme  rules.  
Ms B was a member of the staff scheme from 1977.  It merged with the industrial staff 
scheme in 1983  to form a new scheme.  She left the scheme in 1986. Ive looked at the staff 
scheme rules from 1978  specifically the relevant parts of clause 46(1) mentioned  above.  
This defines the normal retirement age for women as age 60. In simple terms, it would allow  
Ms B an earlier retirement age than 60 if she; was, and remained, a member of the scheme 
from 31 December 1955; or transferred to the staff scheme from another  scheme.  
Its clear to me that Ms B joined the staff scheme  many years after the 31 December 1955 
requirement. Nor is it being  claimed,  and theres nothing in the available  evidence to 
suggest, that Ms B transferred to the staff scheme from another  scheme.  So, Im satisfied 
that the relevant normal retirement age applicable to Ms B wasnt  earlier than 60. 
Ref: DRN46910555I would make it clear here that the above rules extract is from the scheme  rules  from 1990. 
The transitional provisions  from the 1983  scheme  rules, when the current scheme came into 
being, are very similar. The minor differences between the two dont affect my decision in 
any way. 
Mr B has said, more  than once, that its likely  that the rules  from 1978 would have been 
amended many times  before the current scheme came into force in 1983. The Trustees  
have confirmed it hasnt  been possible to definitively confirm  no changes  were made 
between those times. But it has also confirmed that following its enquiries it believes, given 
the lack of evidence of any such changes, its unlikely any amendments  were made to the 
relevant provisions. 
In such circumstances  as these, I make my decision based on the balance of probabilities  
that is, given the available evidence,  what do I think is most likely to have happened? Im 
satisfied I can rely on the statement from the Trustees. I agree its unlikely that any relevant 
changes were made to the 1978 rules  that would have given Ms B a normal retirement age 
earlier than 60. 
Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied that Phoenix did carry out the review  of 
Ms Bs pension transfer correctly; and it was right to use a normal retirement age of 60. So, 
Im not upholding this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019. 
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4691055