K820x#14Complaint
Mr F complains about the excess mileage  charge he was asked to pay when his hire 
purchase agreement  with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited ended.
Background
Mr F signed a hire purchase  agreement in August 2015 to obtain a car. The agreement  set 
out that there would  be an excess mileage charge of 6p per mile for any mileage above  
60,000 at the end of the agreement. The agreement required  him to make monthly payments 
of £377.65.
In 2018, VWFS contacted Mr F to check his mileage and to suggest he paid an 
administration charge to lower the mileage allowance, which in turn would lower the 
remaining monthly payments.
Mr F signed an amended  agreement which  reduced the total mileage allowance to 35,000. 
He paid a £60 administration charge and, with effect from February 2019, his monthly 
payments were reduced to £332.65. The excess mileage charge stayed at 6p per mile.
A few weeks  later, Mr F asked to end the agreement early.  On 5 March  he paid the 
settlement amount and arranged to return the car. When the car was inspected, there  was 
some damage which Mr F agreed  and paid for. The mileage was 31,868 and VWFS sent 
Mr F an invoice for an excess mileage charge of £82.15.
Mr F complained, saying he understood the reduce mileage of 35,000 to be applicable from 
when the contract  changed, not from the start of the agreement.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She concluded that 
the charge was in line with the agreed  terms and conditions.
Mr F didnt  agree. He said,  in summary, that it wasnt explained that the amendment  to the 
mileage would be from the beginning of the contract  and that if he returned the car early the 
mileage would be adjusted pro-rata.  He thinks this should have been made clear during his 
phone calls with VWFS.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find that Ive come to 
the same  conclusion as the adjudicator, for much  the same  reasons.
The terms and conditions  of the hire purchase  agreement say:
10.1  You  must make sure that the Vehicle does not cover more than:
10.1.1  the Maximum Annual Mileage in each succeeding period of 12 months starting  
from the making  of this Agreement; and/or
10.1.2  the Maximum Total Mileage.
Ref: DRN44688692Following the amendment to the agreement,  the Maximum Total Mileage was 35,000. 
There was nothing to suggest that this new mileage figure only applied from the date of the 
new agreement.  And I think, from the phone  recording that Ive listened to, Mr F understood 
this. He knew the mileage  was nearly 31,000 and he agreed 35,000 knowing he had until 
September remaining on the agreement.
The agreement goes  on to say:
10.5  If this Agreement terminates early, we will reduce the Maximum Total  Mileage in the 
proportion which  the actual  period of hire bears to the period of hire originally agreed.  
Any Excess Mileage  Charge will be calculated using the reduced  Maximum Total  
Mileage.
Even though  its set out in the terms and conditions, its clear Mr F didnt  realise that hed 
have to pay an excess mileage charge when he ended  the agreement  early. And, during the 
phone call when Mr F agreed to amend his agreement to reduce the total mileage 
allowance, VWFS didnt draw this clause  to Mr Fs attention. But Mr F didnt give any 
indication that he planned to end the agreement early. He said he knew he had until 
September and he agreed the new mileage  on this basis.  So I dont think  VWFS  needed to 
do more to explain this clause to Mr F. I can see from VWFSs contact records that, when 
Mr F phoned to ask to end the agreement, he was told an excess mileage charge might 
apply. So, overall,  I dont find VWFS has done anything  wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4468869