K822xcomplaint
Mr H, a director of A, complains on As behalf that Interactive Investor  Services  Limited failed  
to respond to a secure message in time to enable him to sell the companys shares before 
new legislation came into force. 
background 
On 3 January  2018, an EU directive  called the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II 
(MIFID II) came into force in the UK. One of its new requirements  was a rule that all clients  
of EU investment  firms  that are legal  entities or structures need to have something called a 
Legal Entity  Identifier (LEI).  Legal entities include limited companies like A. Investment 
firms like IIS are prohibited from acting on the instructions of a legal entity  client  that doesnt 
have a LEI. 
In November and December 2017,  IIS contacted A by letter  and email to warn it about the 
new requirement to have a LEI. 
On 20 December 2017, A sent a secure message to IIS. It asked  if there were  any 
exemptions to the new rules on LEIs. The message said that the company had no intention  
of registering for a LEI and ended I only have a few working days to shut down my account 
if there are no exceptions ... Could you please  advise me as a matter  of urgency? 
IIS didnt  reply until 16 January. It apologised for the delay, then said that all companies  
required a LEI. 
On 3 August  2018, A sent a letter to IIS. It said it had received no response  to its secure 
message, could no longer access its IIS account  online and now wished to sell all shares  
and close the account. IIS didnt reply. 
In October  2018, A complained about  the lack of response,  pointing  out the fall in the value 
of its investments since its August letter. IIS apologised  for failing to respond to the August 
letter. But they didnt  uphold the complaint. They said they didnt accept written instructions 
to sell shares. And as A had no LEI, it wasnt able to sell by any other means either.  The 
only option available to A without a LEI was to withdraw its stock in certificated form, at a 
cost of £35 per line of stock. 
I issued a provisional decision on 21 November 2019. I provisionally upheld the complaint 
and made  the following points:
I agreed that IIS customers service had been poor. They  had taken too long to 
respond to As message and hadnt responded at all to his August letter. 
But I needed to consider whether A should  have  done something  to mitigate its loss. 
I thought that if you sent a message on the evening of 20 December,  it was 
foreseeable that the response  might be slower than normal. 
Mr H knew  he needed an urgent response. And he knew that once he got that 
response, he was likely to need to take further action, that is, either  applying  for 
some form of exemption, had it existed, or selling As shares  all before 3 January. 
So I thought it would  have been reasonable for him to chase it, by phone, ahead of 
the 3 January deadline.  
Mr H may have  tried to log in online,  but he doesnt seem to have taken any other 
action until over seven  months  later, in August  2018.  IIS failure  to respond to his 
Ref: DRN47959052letter is very poor customer service. But by this stage, there was no means for A to 
sell its shares  without  obtaining a LEI. So I dont think  IIS error prevented  A from 
selling its shares in August. And it wouldnt  therefore be fair to expect IIS to 
compensate A for the fall in the portfolios  value  since then. 
I understood that the events had been  frustrating for Mr H, but I didnt have the power 
to award compensation for a directors distress. 
When IIS replied to our investigator, it offered to reimburse A for the initial  cost of 
applying for a LEI, in recognition of its customer service failings. I thought  this offer 
was fair compensation for the inconvenience to A. This would then enable  A to sell 
the shares, or, if Mr H thinks  their value will increase, the company can retain them  
but will need to pay the annual cost to renew  its LEI. 
IIS accepted my provisional decision. Mr H, on behalf  of A, didnt. In summary, he said the 
following:
If hed received a response in time, he would have sold the entire  portfolio. IIS were 
responsible for the loss arising  from denying him the access to his account since  
3 Jan 2018. 
All Mr Hs previous experience with stockbrokers had been with different firms where 
customer service  was good. So hed had no reason  to believe IIS would be different. 
He was the sole employee of A and had returned to work immediately after 
Christmas 2018,  working long days away from home on a critical project.  
Given IIS poor service  throughout, Mr H asked  how likely it was that IIS would have 
answered the phone between Christmas and New Year, or dealt with his query  
satisfactorily if they had.
My provisional decision had failed to take into account the make-up of his portfolio. 
He asked a number of questions about  what he should do with the delisted  or 
valueless holdings. 
In view of IIS poor service, A wasnt  prepared  to pay any charges other  than for 
successfully completed trades  at prevailing  rates. 
If the account had been closed before 3 January, there  would have been no further 
commitments, either in time or financial,  for A. A was now going to have to get a LEI. 
Mr H would like to charge for the time this would take. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr H, but I havent been persuaded to change my provisional view. 
Mr H has given me two reasons why he feels my view on his responsibility to mitigate  As 
loss is unfair. First,  hed only fairly  recently become a customer  of IIS. And his previous 
experience of two stockbroking firms customer service had been good. And second, he was 
extremely busy between Christmas and the 3 January. I accept that this isnt an ideal  time to 
be chasing things,  even if one didnt have  a major work contract. But it was Mr H who chose 
to leave it until the evening of 20 December  to get in touch. IIS had informed him about the 
new requirements in November. 
I still think that if you send  an email on 20 December, its foreseeable that you might not get 
a reply until after 3 January.  Mr H had no reason  to believe an exception  to the new rules  
was likely. After all, had there been exceptions, IIS would almost certainly have mentioned  
them in their letter. So I think Mr H ought  reasonably  to have known  that the most likely 
Ref: DRN47959053outcome of his secure message was that hed need to liquidate  the portfolio. And he knew  
this needed to happen before 3 January.  
My finding  remains that Mr H should have mitigated As loss by following up on the phone. 
Im afraid that being busy at work doesnt change my finding on this point, any more than it 
would be a defence for IIS poor service. 
Mr H also feels, that given IIS customer service failings, even if he had rung between  
Christmas and New Year, the odds of a satisfactory resolution were  low. We will never  know  
what would  have happened. But the question hed posed was a straightforward,  binary one  
were there any exceptions?   and the answer was no. I think its more likely than not that he 
would have got a straight  answer  to this question if hed phoned. 
My decision  is that to compensate A for the inconvenience caused by IIS poor service,  IIS 
should reimburse A for the initial cost of applying for a LEI. This would then enable A to sell 
the shares, or, if Mr H thinks  their value will increase, the company can retain them  but will 
need to pay the annual  cost to renew  its LEI. In view of A not mitigating its loss, I dont intend  
to award any further compensation  for IIS poor service. It follows  that I dont think  it would 
be fair for Mr H to charge them for his time. 
As portfolio comprises volatile commodity stocks, mostly listed  on smaller markets. 
Valuations for these  types of investments fluctuate and theres a material risk of devaluations 
and de-listings. The decision as to what to do with the delisted and low value stocks is one 
for Mr H and I cant advise him on this. But he does have the option of keeping  his account 
and renewing  his LEI again,  if he thinks the potential gains justify  this. And his argument 
rests on the fact that, if IIS had responded before the 3 January, he would have liquidated 
the portfolio. So he would have faced at least some of these problems at that point in any 
case. 
Mr H has mentioned charges in his response to my provisional decision. Im not sure what 
tariff As account is currently on. But I dont think it would be fair to require IIS to operate  As 
account free of any charges they would normally levy, because  of their past poor service. So 
Im not making any directions on charges in this decision. IIS should, of course, provide Mr H 
with a copy of its fees and charges  if he requires  one, and provide  statements showing 
exactly what charges A has paid.  
my final decision
I uphold this decision and direct Interactive Investor Services  Limited to reimburse A for the 
cost of an initial LEI application, in line with their offer. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020.
Louise Bardell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4795905