K821x#15complaint
Mr J is complaining about the quality of repair done  to his car by AXA Insurance UK Plcs 
approved repairer  after he made a claim on his car insurance policy.  
background
Mr Js car was damaged  when hit by another car while parked. He claimed for the damage 
on his car insurance  policy. AXA arranged for the car to be sent to one of its approved 
repairers  NCC  for the repairs to be done. Mr J is unhappy  with the quality  of the repairs.  
In particular hes referred to the following issues:
1.The nearside step on his car hasnt been adequately repaired;
2.There was damaged to the nearside front wheel which wasnt repaired;
3.A noise  was coming from the area the car was damaged;
4.A screw was left in the channel around the top of the engine  bay; 
5.The paintwork  was inconsistent; and
6.The bumper wasnt attached properly.
AXA arranged for the car to be inspected by a manufacturer  dealership,  who said that there 
was an old oil leak caused  by a failure of the rocker cover gasket  and timing  cover gasket 
which both needed  replacing. NCC maintained that the repairs it did were done to a 
satisfactory standard and it thinks the damage  Mr J says was outstanding was pre-existing.
AXA contacted Mr J and it said it wanted  to return the car to him. But Mr J said he wasnt 
willing to accept it until he was satisfied all the repairs were  carried out to a satisfactory 
standard. So the car remained at NCC incurring storage charges.
Mr J asked this service  to step in. Since  then, Mr J has arranged  for his own inspection 
which said that the repair work was done to a poor standard. Given  this, the adjudicator 
thought AXA should do the following:
1.Carry out the repairs that Mr J has highlighted;
2.Reimburse any reasonable hire charges  Mr J can evidence hed incurred; and
3.Waive any storage charges incurred. 
AXA queried this report as it said it was done eight months after the manufacturer  
dealerships report.  And it said that it wanted  to arrange a further  independent inspection of 
the car. The adjudicator responded to say that he thought it was fair for an independent 
inspection to be done. But AXA didnt arrange for this to be done, so the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2019  partially upholding this complaint. And I said 
the following:
AXA said it was going to arrange for an independent inspection to review  the car. But it 
doesnt seem to have  done so. So Ive based  my decision  on what I think was most  likely to 
have happened.
Mr J is complaining that NCC hasnt repaired all the damage on his car. Ive reviewed the 
respective reports provided by AXA and Mr J. And I think the majority of the damage  Mr J 
wants AXA to repair was most likely to be present before the accident.  
Ref: DRN42286602I think the photographic  evidence  of the damage to Mr Js car from the accident shows that it 
wasnt a significant  impact on his car and the damage was localised to the front left bumper 
of his car. I havent  seen anything to show that there  was impact damage  to the wheel or in 
the area of the nearside step. So I think its unlikely they were  damaged  in the accident.  So I 
dont think AXA should be required  to fix that.
Mr J has said there  is a noise in the area of the accident damage. In reviewing  the 
respective reports,  in particular I note that the manufacturer dealership  said that there  was 
evidence of an old leak and it said it hadnt seen evidence of a new leak.  Its said that the car 
needs to have the rocker  cover gasket, timing  cover gasket and oil pressure switch  replaced. 
I think its unlikely these  parts could  have been damaged  by the accident and are likely to be 
attributable to wear  and tear. Im conscious that Mr Js car had travelled around  135,000  at 
the time of the accident. And I think this suggest the oil leak had been  present before the 
accident. And I havent seen anything to show that there was engine  damage attributable  to 
the accident. So I dont think AXA needs  to repair this either.
However, I think the report and photographs  Mr Js garage has provided does show that the 
bumper wasnt replaced correctly. The engineer also highlighted that the paintwork didnt 
match up with the rest of the car. Im satisfied that this suggests  that the quality of repair to 
bumper wasnt of satisfactory quality. And I think AXA should pay to put this right. I note 
AXAs comments that this report was done  eight  months after its report. And it thinks  the 
damage could  have incurred while not being  moved. But Ive looked at the photos  provided, 
and I think its unlikely  this damage could have  occurred  due to the car not being  used.
Mr J doesnt want NCC to do the repair. And I think that fair given the breakdown in 
relationship here. I think the fairest option  would be for the car to return  to the manufacturing 
dealership to inspect  the repair work  to the bumper and put things right where it considers 
the repairs were not of a satisfactory quality.  It should also ensure that any paintwork carried 
out is fairly  blended  in to match the rest of the paintwork.
I note Mr J wants AXA to reimburse  his hire charges.  But I think thats unfair. Mr J had a duty 
to mitigate his own losses. His car was driveable  and I think  it was unreasonable  of him to 
have refused for it to be returned  to him. I appreciate  that hes said he wasnt  willing to take 
the car back  until all the repairs  were  carried out. But, as I said, I think  the majority of the 
repairs Mr J wanted AXA to carry out were pre-existing  when the accident took place. And I 
dont think his actions  of hiring a car for the entire  time he wouldnt have the car back was 
proportionate to the loss. So I cant fairly  require AXA to refund this. I also dont think it would 
be fair to require AXA to have  to make good  any further damage the car may have suffered 
due to not being used  for a significant period of time.
That said,  given AXA knew there was a dispute  ongoing  and it knew storage charges were 
being incurred,  I dont think it was reasonable for it to have left the car at its garage.  And I 
think it should have  taken steps  to move the car to a place of free storage. So I think  AXA 
should cover  any storage  charges that have arisen.
Finally I think  this matter has caused  Mr J a lot of distress and inconvenience.  And, as I said, 
Im satisfied that the quality of repair wasnt of satisfactory quality.  While  I do think some of 
the damage was pre-existing, I think it should  pay compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused. And I think £300  is fair.
Ref: DRN42286603AXA didnt respond to my provisional decision.  Mr J responded to say that in general he was 
happy with the provisional decision but he raised  the following points that he wanted me to 
take into account:
1.The near-side step may not have  been  damaged due to the original impact,  but it was 
removed by the repairers to effect panel repairs to the left front corner.   He said that the 
step plate is part of a modular set attached  to the extended wheel arches  on this model 
of vehicle and would  have to have  been  removed  to complete any repairs.  This part was 
clearly not reattached  correctly by AXA's repairers and therefore, it should be considered  
in scope for remediation by his repairers.
2.He said it was his understanding that when AXA accepted return  of the vehicle  and to a 
full inspection by the manufacturer that all aspects would be inspected,  including  the 
panel repairs and the steering/handling issue. He said that both the manufacturer  and 
AXA refused to provide him with the inspection report, but hes certain  after speaking to 
the manufacturing dealership that the panel work was never inspected. 
1.He says that the issue of the oil leak and steering/wheel  hub issues  were raised as 
additional points,  but this seems  to have become the focus of the subsequent inspection.  
He said hes happy to accept that this was normal wear and tear and not caused  or 
exacerbated by the accident  impact. However,  he thinks its clouded the issue.  
2.On returning  the vehicle,  he says he set out in writing that he thought  the work hadnt  
been completed, so he thought AXA should have still provided him with a courtesy car 
until the repairs were  satisfactorily completed. And he says that at no stage did AXA 
state this wouldnt  be allowed.  He says AXA had many opportunities to discuss  this with 
him. So he thinks, given this, that AXA should compensate  him for some,  if not all, of the 
car rental  costs  hes incurred. 
3.He said that he thinks, given he wasnt at fault for the accident, he was entitled to a 
courtesy car under the terms  of his insurance  policy. And he said he was told by the 
initial AXA agent that dealt with the matter that he shouldnt accept a courtesy car from 
the repairers but that it should be through a car rental company.
4.He also thought that £300 wasnt enough compensation given that AXA could have 
resolved this issue in very short space of time if it had carried  out a proper inspection 
and discussed  it with him in a reasonable and timely manner.  He said he had very little 
contact with AXA despite many emails  and calls. And he feels  that hes been ignored 
when he was in effect the "victim"  in this matter. He said hes spent weeks working on 
this matter, whilst AXA have simply ignored  him (and other requests from his lawyers 
and the Ombudsman's office).
5.He says that AXA was responsible for his car while in its possession. So he doesnt 
agree its not responsible for any deterioration that may have occurred after the repairs  
were carried  out. He said he feels that AXA has ignored its responsibility towards  him 
and his car in this matter.
Mr J also queried whether he had to provide  AXA with quotations for the cost of repair  or can 
he just get the car repaired and send the cost to AXA.  
Ref: DRN42286604my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive largely come to the same conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision and Ill now 
explain why.
repairs
Mr J appears  to not dispute that the issues surrounding the oil leak werent caused by the 
accident. So I wont comment on these  further.
Whilst I note Mr Js comments in respect to the repairs, I dont think hes largely  provided  
any further significant evidence that hasnt been provided before. So I still think the following:
1.There isnt enough to say that damage  to the nearside front wheel or that the noise 
coming from the engine was caused  by the accident; and
2.Im satisfied  from the photographic evidence that the bumper wasnt  attached  properly. 
Im also that the paintwork didnt match up with the rest of the car. I remain satisfied that 
this suggests  that the quality of repair to bumper wasnt  of satisfactory quality. And I think  
AXA should  pay to put this right.
However, I am persuaded  by Mr Js comments that its likely the side step would have had to 
be replaced to complete  any repairs. And I havent seen enough to say that the side step 
was in a poor condition  or poorly fitted before it arrived at AXAs  approved repairer. So it 
appears that it wasnt replaced  adequately  during the repair  process. So I also think AXA 
should pay to put this right. 
I note Mr Js comments that an inspection on the panel work wasnt  done after the repair,  
despite being promised it would. But, while I can understand his frustration on this, I dont 
think this affects my decision as a pre-inspection wouldnt detract from the contents  of the 
independent reports.
Mr J has queried  whether he can get the car repaired and send the repair  invoice to AXA for 
reimbursement. I think its fair for AXA to have some oversight of the costs  of repair before 
the repairs are carried  out. So I think AXA should  be entitled to authorise the repair  invoice 
prior to the repairs are carried out to ensure  that the work  being  carried out is consistent with 
its requirements as set out in this decision..
courtesy car
Mr J is unhappy that AXA didnt provide him with a courtesy car until the repairs  were  
satisfactorily completed. And he says that at no stage did AXA state this wouldnt be 
allowed.
The terms of Mr Js contract state that he was entitled to a courtesy  car for up to 14 days  
while his car is being  repaired. So he wasnt entitled  to a replacement  car for the entire  time 
his car was with AXAs approved repairer.
Ref: DRN42286605It seems  that Mr J was offered a courtesy car at the outset, but hed already been given a 
hire car to use during the initial repair  which I presume was provided  by the other  drivers  
insurer. So he declined that option at the time.
Mr J says that the contract entitled  him to a courtesy car given he wasnt  at fault for the 
accident. But I dont  agree. The terms of the contract with AXA dont change whether a 
policyholder is at fault for the damage being claimed for or not. Where another  party  has 
caused the damage, then Mr J had the right to claim  for his losses directly  from them   
which he appears to have done. But it doesnt  change AXAs responsibilities  towards him.
I remain of the same  opinion that I dont think it was a fair and reasonable action for Mr J to 
incur the significant  expense  of hiring a car rather than using his car which I think  was 
driveable. I think the poor repair  work  Ive highlighted was superficial  damage  so wouldnt 
have impacted Mr Js ability to use the car. So, while I note Mr Js comments, I still dont 
think I can fairly require AXA to refund any hire charges he incurred  after the car was 
inspected by the manufacturer. 
That said,  if Mr J incurred any hire charges between the time AXA said the car was fully 
repaired and it being inspected by the manufacturer, I think  AXA should refund  these.  I think  
these were losses that AXA could have avoided  if its repairer had repaired the car 
satisfactorily at the outset.  But its entitled  to require  Mr J to evidence these if it wishes  him 
to do so.
further damage to the car while in the repairers  possession
I remain of the belief that it was Mr Js responsible  to take possession of the car back  after 
the manufacturers inspection. And Mr J hasnt given me anything to change  my opinion in 
that respect.  However  I accept Mr Js point that the repairer needed  to take reasonable steps  
to safeguard the car from damage.  And I agree with that. But I cant  hold it responsible for 
any damage that may have occurred due to natural  wear and tear arising  from the car not 
being used during that time.
However, if Mr J can show  that the repairer  failed to take reasonable steps  to safeguard  the 
car while in the repairers possession, hes free to raise a new complaint with AXA in this 
respect. But given  Mr Js fair comment,  it would be inappropriate for me to make any findings 
in respect to any damage that may have occurred. So in this decision I make  no finding as to 
whether AXA is responsible for the damage  that may have arisen during this time.  
trouble and upset
My provisional decision set out why I thought £300  was fair compensation in this case.  Ive 
taken Mr Js comments into account, but they havent  changed  my opinion  in this respect. I 
dont dispute that hes had to spend a lot of time trying  to resolve this matter. And I agree 
with him that AXAs handling of this matter  isnt of the level he was entitled to expect. But I 
still think £300 is fair compensation for whats happened. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the following:
Ref: DRN422866061.Arrange for the manufacturing dealership to inspect the repair work to the bumper and 
put things right where it considers the repairs were not of a satisfactory quality. 
2.Ensure that any paintwork  carried  out is fairly blended in to match the rest of the 
paintwork;
3.Arrange for the side step to be fitted correctly;
4.Cover any storage charges that have arisen;
5.Refund any hire charges Mr J incurred  between the time AXA said the car was fully 
repaired and it being inspected by the manufacturer. It should pay 8% simple  interest  on 
this from the date Mr J paid the costs until he gets it back.  If AXA thinks  that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr J 
how much  its taken  off. It should  also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.  Its entitled to require Mr J to evidence 
these if it wishes him to do so; and
6.Pay Mr J £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its unfairly caused 
him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.  
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4228660