K820x#14complaint
Mrs O and Mr H complain that Aviva Insurance Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably in 
rejecting their claim under a travel  insurance  policy. They  want the claim paid and 
compensation.
background
Mrs O and Mr H had a travel  insurance policy with Aviva.  They booked in January 2019 a 
holiday abroad to start later that month,  but Mrs O became unwell and was told not to travel.  
The symptoms appeared in December  2018  and Mrs O had been awaiting an exercise  ECG  
test when the holiday was booked, having  seen  a doctor. But she said that it wasnt until 
mid-January 2019  that Mrs O was given  a possible diagnosis  and cancelled  the holiday.
Mrs O and Mr H claimed for the costs  of the cancelled  holiday under the policy.  The claim 
was rejected, after Aviva initially accepted it and only then asked for more information. 
Mrs O and Mr H complained to Aviva. It said under the terms and conditions of the policy,  
Mrs O and Mr H were required to contact  it if one of them was being investigated or awaiting 
results in relation  to a diagnosed or undiagnosed  medical condition,  or was on a waiting list. 
Aviva noted  that Mrs O first saw a doctor in December 2018  and if shed  contacted it as 
required, she wouldve  been told that undiagnosed medical conditions would be excluded. It 
accepted that its staff didnt immediately ask for a medical certificate when the claim was 
made and offered £75 compensation for this failure.
Mrs O and Mr H complained to us, and said that the exercise ECG was arranged because 
Mrs O requested it. Aviva said that if Mrs O did ask for the ECG, it showed  that she had 
health concerns  which  shouldve  been  declared. The investigators  view was that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. She noted  that the complaint brought to this service was 
solely about the refusal to pay the cancellation  costs of the holiday. The investigator pointed  
out that the policy clearly said that if a policyholder  was waiting for medical  tests  or being 
investigated in relation  to a medical  condition, it had to be declared. Mrs O and Mr H didnt 
do this, and the investigator  said that it was clear  from the evidence  that if they had, the 
condition wouldve been excluded from the policy as it was undiagnosed.
Mrs O and Mr H disagreed. They  said that they were  disgusted and wanted an 
ombudsmans view.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to focus on the complaint set 
out in the complaint form - the refusal to pay out the claim for the cancelled  holiday.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The terms and conditions  of the policy makes it clear (and on more  than one occasion)  that if 
a policyholder is receiving  medical  advice, on a waiting list for tests  or treatment, or awaiting 
results in relation  to either  a diagnosed  or undiagnosed medical condition, it must  
immediately be declared to the insurer or there may be no cover. Mrs O had seen a doctor  
and been referred  for more tests prior to booking  the holiday and this wasnt declared to 
Aviva. It isnt unfair  or unreasonable  for it to apply  the terms and conditions  of the policy.
Ref: DRN43286092But this isnt the end of the matter. This service considers what  wouldve  happened if the 
situation had been declared  to Aviva. From the evidence  available  to me, its clear  that Aviva 
wouldve excluded Mrs Os undiagnosed medical  condition from the policy.  This means that 
it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for Aviva to refuse to pay the claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the claim.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr H to accept or reject my 
decision before  27 December 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4328609