K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy in 1997. Mr T says he didnt need  PPI.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the mis-sale shouldnt  be 
upheld. But RBS has already offered to pay back some money  to Mr T for the commission  it 
received from the sale. 
Mr T still thinks the PPI was mis-sold in the first place so the complaint  has therefore been  
passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint  about  being mis-sold the PPI.
Mr T cant remember much about the sale but RBS records show  this was a postal  
application. I was sent a copy of Mr Ts original credit card application form and I can see 
there was a section  on it about PPI. If the applicant wanted to have PPI, there was a 
requirement for them to specifically say so by ticking a box asking for it. I can see the box 
was ticked on Mr Ts form and he signed  his name at the bottom  of the application form. I 
think this shows that he wanted the policy at the time.  
I was also sent Mr Ts monthly credit  card statements  and I note that these were showing 
regular charges for Payment Protection Insurance . I think this confirms  hed asked  for the 
PPI. And if he hadnt wanted it, I think Mr T would have wanted to know what the charges 
were for.
So I therefore think all this shows its more  likely  Mr T consented to the PPI and would have 
been able to see on the form that it was optional.
As this was all done through the post,  I think  Mr T would have made his own way through  
the application in his own time without any help from anyone  at RBS. So it wasnt an 
advised sale and this means it was for Mr T to decide for himself  what  he wanted to do. 
RBSs responsibility  was to give information during the sale that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
I can certainly see ways in which the form could have  been set out more clearly.  But I dont 
think theres enough for me to say Mr T would have acted any differently.
This is because he was eligible for the cover and not caught  by any of the major exclusions 
we tend to see in these policies. The PPI cover cost around £0.69 per £100 of the 
outstanding monthly  balance  on Mr Ts card and I dont think this was unaffordable for him. 
Ref: DRN49141282Mr T says he didnt  need the policy and that he had other types of insurance. Ive thought 
carefully about these  things but they dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt  of use. 
This is because Im afraid  it was for Mr T to determine what he ought to do  and all the 
evidence seems to show  he wanted  the PPI. The policy could  have reduced  his credit card 
balance by 10% each month for up to a year if hed needed to claim and this would have 
been in addition to any other means  he had at the time. 
So whilst I cant say why he chose the policy, I can see how it could have been useful for 
him. All this means I dont  think theres  enough  for me to say the policy was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
As I said earlier,  RBS has already agreed  to pay back to Mr T the commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. RBS should re-work the credit card 
account and pay back to Mr T the difference between  what he owes and what he wouldve 
owed if the commission  and profit share  it got hadnt  been  over 50% of the cost of the PPI. 
RBS should also pay Mr T 8%* simple interest  if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc has agreed  to pay back to Mr T any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4914128