K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) failed  to 
act on his instructions  to close his SIPP in a timely manner.
background
Mr M held a SIPP that was administered on an execution-only basis  by HLAM. On 
3 October 2018 Mr M wrote to HLAM asking  it to close  his SIPP account  and transfer  the 
proceeds to his bank  account. He asked that these transactions  be completed by 
28 October.
A week later HLAM wrote to Mr M to acknowledge receipt of his letter and confirm that the 
value of his payment would reach  his bank account before 28 October. But as part of that 
letter it also pointed out to Mr M that he was responsible for ensuring  that there was 
sufficient cash in his account to make  the payment and noting that any investments that 
needed to be sold to achieve this should  be instructed on or before 10 October.
Mr M contacted HLAM by telephone on 23 October  to confirm that all was in order for his 
payment to be made by the agreed date. But at that time he was told that he had failed to 
provide HLAM with an instruction to sell the underlying investments and so there  was no 
cash available to make  the requested payment. But on that call, as a gesture of goodwill, 
HLAM advised  that the funds could be paid to Mr M the following day.
That information was incorrect.  And although the sale of Mr Ms investments was instructed 
the following  day, the trades didnt settle  until 30 October.  So Mr M didnt  receive the final 
proceeds from his SIPP  until that date.
Mr M complained to HLAM about the delays.  He complained that his funds had been 
received two days later than requested   and six days  later than HLAM had advised on the 
telephone call. And he asked for details  of whether the delay in selling his investments  had 
resulted in any loss. HLAM responded by saying that it provided an execution-only service  
so without a specific  instruction  to sell it couldnt agree with his complaint. It noted that Mr M 
had made  a similar complaint in 2017.  But HLAM did accept that Mr M had been given 
incorrect information by telephone on 23 October. It offered him £50 for the trouble and 
upset hed been caused. It also offered to consider  any overdraft charges hed incurred as a 
result of the delay.
Mr M didnt  accept HLAMs offer so brought  his complaint to this Service. The complaint has 
been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt  think that HLAM had acted unfairly in 
not selling  the investments without an explicit instruction.  And she thought  that the offer 
HLAM had made to Mr M for the incorrect information given on the phone call was fair. So 
she didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld.
Mr M didnt  agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved  
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
Ref: DRN44330052my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
It seems  to me that there is little, if any disagreement, between Mr M and HLAM about the 
timeline of events that led up to this complaint. Mr M wrote to HLAM on 3 October, and 
HLAM acknowledged  receipt of that letter on 10 October. And then following Mr Ms phone 
call on 23 October  HLAM  started selling the investments and paid the proceeds to Mr M on 
30 October. HLAM also accepts that it gave some  incorrect information to Mr M on the 
phone call of 23 October.
So what  I need to decide here is whether the letter that Mr M wrote  to HLAM was sufficient 
for it have  been instructed to sell Mr Ms underlying holdings without any further instruction 
being received.
Mr Ms letter to HLAM  asked for his SIPP account to be closed and for the proceeds to be 
transferred to his bank  account. But it failed to specifically  ask HLAM to sell any investments. 
I think that is important  there will be many customers  who, by the time they wish to close  
their SIPP, only hold cash. And so the instruction Mr M gave might  not have seemed 
unusual to HLAM  and so prompted  further  enquiries.
Ive looked carefully  at the letter that HLAM sent to Mr M. Mr M says it would be reasonable 
to conclude from that letter that HLAM  had accepted that his instruction would result in the 
closure of his SIPP, and so suggested an instruction to sell all his investments had been 
successfully received. But on balance I dont think that is the case. The letter  acknowledges 
that if HLAM pays Mr M the entire cash value of his SIPP that his account  would  close.  But it 
also goes on to remind him that he would need  to place the necessary trades for the sale of 
his investments.
I have also seen that Mr M faced a similar problem with HLAM in 2017. At that time, 
although he wasnt closing his SIPP, he had asked HLAM to make a cash  payment to him. 
That payment  failed as Mr M hadnt  sold sufficient investments to generate the cash that he 
was asking to be paid. So I think it reasonable to conclude that Mr M was aware how HLAM 
operated his SIPP, and that it was on an execution-only basis.  HLAM didnt take any 
responsibility for liquidating  sufficient investments to allow cash payments to be made.
HLAM has also given  us a copy of a withdrawal  request that Mr M made earlier in 2018. That 
letter was similar in format to the request Mr M made in October. But, importantly,  it 
contained an additional instruction to HLAM, asking that a specific  trade was executed to 
generate the cash that would be needed for the withdrawal.  So as before  I think  that 
suggests that Mr M was aware of the format of the instructions he needed  to give to HLAM.
So, on balance, I dont  think HLAM  acted inappropriately in not selling Mr Ms investments 
before it received a specific instruction to do so. Mr Ms original letter  failed to provide  that 
instruction. So I dont conclude that this complaint should be upheld.
As part of his complaint Mr M asked HLAM to consider whether the delays  in selling his 
investments had caused him any loss. As our adjudicator  explained, Mr M would have  
received slightly more if his original  letter  to HLAM had instructed the sale of his holdings.  
Ref: DRN44330053But as I dont think HLAM  acted incorrectly in not selling the investments at that time I dont 
think it is responsible  for that loss.
HLAM has accepted that it gave some incorrect information to Mr M on the telephone call he 
made at the end of October. I can understand that the delay Mr M experienced in his funds 
being paid might have caused  him some  embarrassment. But in saying that I think the offer 
that HLAM made, of £50, is in line with what I would  recommend in similar circumstances. If 
it hasnt already done so HLAM should  pay that sum to Mr M.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited except for it paying, unless it has already 
done so, the compensation of £50 it has previously offered to Mr M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4433005