K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc deducted multiple  excesses for his travel 
insurance claim.
background
Mr B and his wife, who Ill refer to as Mrs B, had travel insurance through  a bank account. 
Unfortunately Mrs B was diagnosed with cancer. They had to cancel several  trips they had 
booked and Mr B claimed for the cancellation  costs under the policy.
AXA settled  the claim and deduced the £40 policy excess  for each trip that was cancelled. 
The policy said Mr B had to pay an excess for each claim per incident. AXA said each 
cancelled trip had to be handled separately  so a separate  claim had to be set up for each. A 
separate excess was payable  for each claim. 
Mr B complained. He said he only made one claim for one incident; cancellation due to his 
wifes cancer.  He thought  AXA had unfairly deducted £200 in excesses instead  of £40. He 
also complained  about some  outstanding  costs  of the claim which have now been  resolved.
Our investigator thought AXA hadnt fairly charged  an excess  for each trip cancelled. He said 
there was one incident and the policy wasnt clear  that AXA would  charge  multiple excesses 
in these circumstances.
AXA disagreed and wants an ombudsman's decision. It didnt dispute the claim was due to 
one incident. But the policy provided cover for cancellation  of the Trip. As the wording  didnt 
say Trips (in plural) the cancellation of each trip was a separate  claim with a separate  
excess.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im intending  to uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
The policy says:
Under most  sections of the policy, claims will be subject  to an excess. This means that you 
will be responsible for paying  the first part of each  and every claim per incident.
Claim and incident arent defined by the policy. But AXA accepts that Mr Bs cancellation 
claim was due to one incident; Mrs Bs cancer  diagnosis. I have to decide if AXA can fairly 
and reasonably say Mr Bs one cancellation  claim for multiple  trips was really multiple 
cancellation claims.
AXAs argued that as the cancellation  section refers  to cover for a Trip (in the singular) a 
claim for cancellation of more than one trip is more than one claim. I understand its point on 
a strict  interpretation of the policy wording.
But Im not persuaded that the policy wording is clear enough that if a consumer makes one 
claim for cancellation for multiple trips due to the same incident  AXA can say they are 
Ref: DRN46130262multiple claims, and deduct multiple excesses.  There is ambiguity and I think its fair and 
reasonable for the policy to be read as if the cancellation claim Mr B made  is one claim.
AXA has made the point that with a travel  insurance  policy different claims can be made 
under different sections of the policy due to one incident. To be clear, Im not saying that if 
Mr B had made a claim due to one incident for issues that were covered by different sections 
of the policy  AXA couldnt fairly charge separate excesses. 
But in this cases circumstances  I think and fair and reasonable outcome is for AXA to 
charge just one £40 excess. As it has deducted  £200 in excess  it must pay Mr B £160 plus 
interest from the date it paid the claim, as detailed below.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr B £160. Interest* must be added at 8% simple a 
year from the date the claim  was paid to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4613026