K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a conditional  sale agreement financed  
by Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants the agreement  to 
be cancelled  with nothing  for him to pay.
background
Mr S is represented in this complaint by his wife, But for ease of reading  Ill simply refer to 
him.
Mr S tells us that in August  2018 he acquired  a hybrid vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as 
V. He says that in January  2019 the vehicle wouldnt  change from fuel to electric drive.  And 
that a coolant  pipe broke. He further stated that there was an issue with the paint peeling. Mr 
S says a diagnostic test and vehicle examination has shown  the vehicle had faults. And that 
hed had an estimate for the work required.  He said V had offered £150  but this hadnt been 
sufficient to cover the required  work. He says hes not made  payments as he couldnt use 
the vehicle.
Santander told us that following Mr S complaining  it had arranged for the vehicle to be 
independently inspected by a company Ill refer to as A. It said this inspection had found 
that faults were  present but that it had concluded they werent  present  at the point of supply.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She said the report 
by A had found  some faults but had concluded these werent present at the point of supply. 
She noted the vehicle had travelled around 7,000 miles since  supplied to Mr S. And she 
didnt think this wouldve  been possible if the vehicle had been faulty at the point of supply. 
She also found the vehicle had passed  an MOT test in September 2018 - after the date of 
supply to Mr S - with no advisories. And she thought this also showed the vehicle  was of 
satisfactory quality at the time.
Mr S didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to explain  at the outset that since this complaint was received by this service the 
vehicle has been  repossessed and sold at auction.
Im sorry  that Mr S was disappointed with this vehicle. But with used,  high mileage vehicles 
the risk of something  going wrong is increased.  At the time of supply to Mr S this vehicle was 
four years old and had covered approximately  108,000 miles.  This is well above average 
use.
Ref: DRN48686072Mr S conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. Santander supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA). This states that in order to conform to contract goods have to be of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. And satisfactory  quality is defined  as being what  a reasonable 
person would consider to be satisfactory  having regard for issues which can include, but are 
not limited to, the age of the goods  and previous use.
Where information is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely  to have happened in light of 
the available  evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Ive read two reports relating to the condition of this vehicle. The first report was prepared  on 
behalf of Santander by A and was carried out on 10 March 2019. Mr S then obtained a 
diagnostic report prepared by a branch of the vehicle manufacturer who Ill refer to as M.
Ill deal separately  with the issues  raised  by Mr S in his initial complaint and how I think  the 
two reports are relevant  to my findings  in respect of these aspects.
Theres no mention of peeling paint in As report. And in any event if this had been present at 
the time of supply,  Id have expected some evidence to be apparent  from even a brief 
inspection. So Id have  thought Mr S wouldve raised  the issue  at the time.
A reports that the hybrid  battery was subject to a diagnostic test which revealed:
 
battery life of hybrid battery expired". 
At the time of this inspection the recorded mileage of the vehicle was 117,442miles. And 
batteries are normal wear  and tear items  which routinely require  replacing  during the lifetime  
of a vehicle. The vehicle had covered around  9,000  mile since  supplied to Mr S. So its 
unlikely it couldve done so with a faulty battery from the outset.
And similarly with the reported coolant leak. As report indicated  there  was no coolant  
present in the system.  But that there  was no evidence  of obvious leakage.  As report 
concluded that: 
On the balance of probability, the conditions would not have been developing at finance 
inception.
Ms report  showed the vehicles  coolant  connection  housing was leaking. I infer this is why 
there was no coolant in the system when inspected by A. But its hard to see how the vehicle 
couldve travelled  the additional mileage to which Ive referred if this fault had been  present 
at the point of supply.
Ms diagnostic test also indicated there was a malfunction in terms of communication  with 
the steering column module. I note that the vehicle passed an MOT  test on 29 September  
2018. This is after the vehicle was supplied to Mr S. An MOT test includes a check  on 
steering. If thered  been a fault with the steering its unlikely  it wouldve passed the test. And 
if there had been  any serious issues I dont think it wouldve been possible for Mr S to cover 
the mileage that was achieved after supply.
Ref: DRN48686073Its regrettable that the vehicle  experienced some issues but the information with which  Ive 
been supplied  indicates theyre  probably the result of wear  and tear factors which  are to be 
expected with a car which has undertaken this amount of mileage. The estimate for the 
repairs to the coolant  connection  was just under £370. And V offered £150 towards the total 
estimated cost of almost  £525.  The extra figure related to a software update.  That offer was 
made by V so its nothing which directly concerns Santander.
Although it doesnt  affect my final decision I note that Mr S said he didnt make  payments as 
he couldnt drive  the car. And this non-payment is what led to the vehicles repossession.  But 
Santander has supplied  information which shows the agreement was in arrears from the 
outset with several failed  direct debits. Given the mileage covered after supply to Mr S I dont 
think it would  be fair to say that the vehicle  wasnt able to be driven. 
I understand that my decision will come  as a disappointment to Mr S. But it wouldnt be fair 
and reasonable for me to conclude the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory  quality when supplied. 
Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4868607