K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with what Barclays Bank  Plc has offered to pay following his complaint 
about the commission it got when  it sold him a payment protection  insurance policy.
background
In 1995, Mr M bought  a PPI policy alongside  his credit card.
In 2012, Mr M complained  that the policy was mis-sold. Mr M referred  that complaint to this 
service, and an ombudsman issued a final decision. So I havent looked at that in this 
decision.
But in 2017 Mr M complained again  about the commission Barclays  got from selling him the 
policy. Barclays offered to pay Mr M some  of the commission  it got from the PPI. In total,  
Barclays worked out it needed to pay £1,350.70,  after tax.
Mr M thinks he should get more. Hes unhappy Barclays  dont have full records of what he 
paid for the PPI, feels it should have asked  him for more information,  and wants  his full 
payments returned.
Two adjudicators have  looked at the complaint and thought that what  Barclays had done  
was right.  Mr M didnt  agree with the adjudicators. So the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Mr M complained about the sale of this policy in 2012, and an ombudsman issued a final 
decision in 2014.  The ombudsman didnt think the policy  was mis-sold. This means Mr M 
doesnt get back everything  he paid for the PPI  and I cant  look at this again.
But Barclays  has offered  to pay back some of what Mr M paid for the PPI. Barclays says it 
got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it 
should have told Mr M about  that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair.
To put things right, Barclays has basically offered to pay back  the amount  of commission  
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium. This what  the rules  set by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority suggest  Barclays should pay in cases like this  and I think  this 
is fair in Mr Ms case.
Based on what Ive seen,  I think Barclays has offered fair compensation. Ill explain why.
The cost of the PPI was added to a credit  card.  So I think Barclays  needed to rework  the 
credit card account and offer to pay back to Mr M the difference between what he owed and 
what he would have  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt been over 50% of 
the cost of the PPI. And if Mr M paid off his credit  card at some  point, Barclays should also 
Ref: DRN49143532pay Mr M simple  interest (the rate is 8% simple per year) to compensate  Mr M for the time 
hes been out of pocket.
So Ive looked  at what Barclays has done.
Because of the time that has passed since  the sale of the policy, Barclays  doesnt have full 
records of what Mr M spent on his card or how much it charged for PPI. Its records start in 
May 2001. Mr M has questioned this, but I dont think this is unreasonable given the card 
started in 1995.
So to fill in the gap between the start of the card and the date of the first statement, its used 
the information it does have to make assumptions  about what Mr M would have been 
charged before then.  It takes an average  of the first 12 months statements, and assumes  the 
balance on the account increases steadily to this amount from the date the card started. Its 
used this to work out how much it extra it needs to pay Mr M before  its records  begin.
Though Mr M has sent Barclays  some statements, these begin in 2006. Barclays already 
has records from 2001 onwards. As we dont have  better information  about how Mr M 
actually used the card before 2001, I think what Barclays has done before  then is fair.
From May 2001, Barclays knows what it charged Mr M for the PPI. So it has used this 
information to work  out how much of this was because of the extra commission and profit 
share.  
In total Barclays has worked out that it charged  Mr M £584.01 because of the commission 
and profit share. It charged  an extra £151.19 in interest on that amount.  Finally, when Mr M 
paid more to the account  than he owed, Barclays has added interest  the rate is 8% simple 
a year  to compensate Mr M for the time hes been  out of pocket. This is what Id expect 
Barclays to do in cases like this. Altogether, Barclays paid Mr M £1,350.70. In all the 
circumstances I think what Barclays has offered is fair.
Ive considered the other points Mr M has raised. But this doesnt change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I think Barclays Bank  Plc has offered  fair compensation for the 
commission it got from the PPI. I understand it has already paid this so I make  no further 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4914353