K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Mrs L have complained that Great  Lakes  Insurance  SE turned down their travel  
insurance claim.
background
Mr D and Mrs L had planned a multi-destination  trip abroad. Theyd researched which visas 
they needed and acted  on the advice given on that countrys high commissions  website. 
When reaching one of their destinations Mr D and Mrs L were refused entry as they didnt 
have a visa. Mr D and Mrs L said they were  detained  in a locked room  overnight and their 
passports confiscated. They said they hadnt received any help and werent allowed to make  
a phone call. Mr D and Mrs L ultimately  decided to buy a plane ticket  back to the UK where 
they were able to get a visa and continue with their trip. They said the high commission  for 
the county they were  travelling to accepted the information provided on their website was 
incorrect as it hadnt been updated following changes  to visa requirements.  
Mr D and Mrs L claimed to Great Lakes for the cost of the additional flights  theyd had to buy 
as well as some other expenses including missed  and cancelled internal  flights and 
cancelled car hire and accommodation. Great Lakes empathised with their situation  but said 
the policy contained exclusions for situations  where  the policyholder doesnt have the correct  
visa. So it turned down their claim.
Mr D and Mrs L didnt think this was fair and brought their complaint to us. They said theyd 
done due diligence and followed the advice  given by the high commission. So they didnt 
think it was fair they should have to pay the costs associated with the mistake.  
Our investigator agreed Mr D and Mrs L had done  everything they could and it wasnt  their 
fault they didnt have  a visa. But she still thought it was reasonable for Great Lakes to turn 
down the claim as it wasnt covered by the policy. Mr D and Mrs L still didnt think that was 
fair as the situation wasnt their fault. They asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
The terms and conditions  of Mr D and Mrs Ls policy  has a section that sets out the general 
exclusions applying to their policy. Included in that section is any claim arising from your 
failure to obtain  the required passport or visa.  
Theres no dispute that Mr D and Mrs L did due diligence  in trying to find out whether they 
needed a visa. There also doesnt seem  to be any dispute that the information  on the high 
commissions website was wrong.  But that doesnt mean Great  Lakes need to pay the claim 
as its a situation that just isnt covered by the policy. 
Its for Great Lakes to decide what risks it wants to cover and the policy doesnt cover every  
eventuality. I can fully appreciate Mr D and Mrs Ls frustration  at what  theyve been  through. 
But irrespective of the reason why they didnt have the visa the policy doesnt cover their 
claim.
Ref: DRN43104442I understand Mr D and Mrs L would like Great Lakes to pay their claim as a goodwill gesture 
because theyve paid for insurance and its an unusual situation.  But Im not going to ask it 
to. I appreciate it seems  unfair for Mr D and Mrs L to bear the cost of the mistake.  But I dont 
think it would  be fair for me to ask Great Lakes to bear that cost either,  as it isnt something 
thats covered  by this policy. So I dont think its treated them unreasonably.
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr D and Mrs L were hoping for. But Im not going  to 
interfere with Great Lakes decision  as it was in line with the terms and conditions  of the 
policy.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 February  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN4310444