K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains the replacement windows  suppled under a fixed sum loan agreement  with 
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc werent of satisfactory quality.
background
In September  2017 Mrs P ordered windows and doors from a window company. The total 
cost was £31,561.12. Mrs P paid a deposit  of £2,500 and £13,832 was secure  under the 
fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi.
The work was initially  planned for December 2017 but was rearranged to January 2018. 
When the windows  were delivered,  however,  they were found to be the wrong  size. A new 
completion date was set for the end of March was set but there were further delays and the 
works had still not been finished  several months after that. During this time the roof round 
her dormer  windows was left exposed  with the result  that birds and bees nested in the gaps. 
Mrs P says this has caused  problems  with her property that affected her enjoyment.
Mrs P says shes  been left with incomplete work and with poorly fitted windows and doors.  
Overall she considers the goods and services  supplied  to have been unsatisfactory. She 
says shes lost confidence in the window retailer and now feels the agreement  should be 
terminated so the work can be completed by another company. Shes  also like a refund  of 
the deposit of £2,500 shed paid.
Mrs P was also unhappy at the way her complaint had bene  dealt  with. She said following 
her complaint the retailer contacted her and offered to either complete the work  at a reduced  
price or to pay her some compensation. Mrs P said shed declined  but was then contacted  
by the legal department  seeking full payment even though the repairs  hadnt been  
completed. And although she was then told she didnt  need to pay, the retailer  hadnt  
confirmed this as it had said it would. In addition  Mrs P said shed been sent a certificate 
from FENSA in February 2018  stating the windows  were  completed when this wasnt  the 
case.
Our investigator agreed with Mrs P that on the information available, the windows supplied  to 
Mrs P hadnt  been of satisfactory quality. Theyd been wrongly measured and poorly 
installed and thered then been further delays in arranging  a convenient date to complete the 
repairs. This had caused further problems with Mrs Ps property, including birds and bees 
nesting in the gaps  that had been left. She noted  the retailer  hadnt dealt with this and it had 
been left to Mr P to resolve.
In the circumstances the choices were to ask Hitachi to arrange to replace or repair the 
windows or to allow Mrs P to terminate the agreement.  Shed taken into account the offers  
made by the retailer but she didnt feel they were reasonable. And although Hitachi  and the 
retailer were still willing  to complete the work,  it was clear Mrs P had lost confidence  in their 
ability to do so.
Ref: DRN42374252Taking into account the quality of the windows supplied  and the poor installation, she felt it 
was reasonable  to allow Mrs P to cancel the agreement. She recommended  Hitachi:
allow Mrs P to cancel the agreement  and remove any information submitted on Mrs 
Ps credit file relating to this agreement,
if theres a cost of removing the windows and doors by other companies, then Hitachi 
should bear this cost,
refund  the deposit of £2500, together with interest on this at 8% from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement,
pay Mrs P £500 compensation for the upset and trouble shed had as a result of what  
had happened.
In its response Hitachi said the retailer had offered to complete the outstanding works in May 
2018. At the time Mr P had agreed  and theyd set a provisional date of 11 July but then Mrs 
P refused to allow the work to go ahead. This was why it was passed to the litigation team. 
It went on to say that in February 2019 it was Mrs P whod suggested ending the agreement 
but allowing  the retailer to keep the deposit  of £2,500.This needed to be taken into account  
in any decision.  It asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
Mrs P accepted the decision and said shed contacted the retailer in February  2019  because 
shed heard nothing. She said the retailer had rejected her offer and come back with their 
offers which shed refused. For that reason her offer was no longer on the table.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided to uphold  
Mrs Ps complaint and to allow  her to terminate the agreement as Ill now explain.
As set out above Mrs P decided  to acquire new windows  with the benefit of a fixed  sum loan 
agreement with Hitachi. The total cost was just over £30,000 with £13,832 secured under the 
agreement. 
As the provider of the finance, Hitachi finance is responsible for ensuring that the goods  or 
services supplied under the agreement are of satisfactory quality, that is what a reasonable 
person would consider to be satisfactory  bearing in mind  their age, purpose and description. 
If I consider  the goods werent of satisfactory quality  at the point of sale then I can direct 
Hitachi to take steps to put matters right.
Ive seen videos,  images  and reports  on the windows in this case and Im satisfied from this 
that they were  poorly measured and then poorly  installed. Thats  also borne out by the 
retailer who agreed to come back after the first installation to carry out significant repairs  and 
replacements.
If the retailer had carried out the repairs promptly then that may have resolved the problem 
but in this case its clear  theres been  significant  delays by the retailer in completing  this 
work. Ive seen that initially  a new completion date of 24 March was agreed  but that by the 
end of July, the repairs  hadnt been  done.  And during  this time the property was left exposed  
which caused further problems to Mrs Ps property that it was left to Mrs P to resolve.
Ref: DRN42374253For these reasons Im satisfied that the windows werent of the quality Mrs P was entitled to 
expect  or what a reasonable  person would consider  to be satisfactory. On that basis  the 
options are to repair, replace or reject the windows.
Ive seen what the retailer has said about  the remedy and in particular, the offer it says Mrs 
P made in February this year. Ive taken these discussions into account but its also correct 
to say that the offers were refused at the time so theyre no longer available.  But even if they 
were, its my role to decide whats fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the case  
and to make  my decision on the information before me.
Mrs P was entitled to expect the goods  supplied would be of reasonable quality. That wasnt 
the case and the further efforts by the retailer  havent resolved the issue. Ive considered  
whether it would be appropriate  to allow Hitachi to arrange for further  work to be done  to 
remedy the issues. But its clear  Mrs P has lost confidence in the retailer  and I think  thats 
understandable bearing in mind the history of whats  happened since  January 2018. In the 
circumstances I dont  think  its reasonable to ask Mrs P to allow the retailer  a further 
opportunity to carry out yet more repairs. 
In the circumstances Ive decided  that its fair and reasonable to allow  Mrs P to cancel the 
agreement and for the details of this agreement  to be removed from her credit  file. On the 
basis Mrs P will now need to arrange  for new windows to be installed by another  company. If 
theres a cost of taking  out the existing windows to allow for new windows  then Hitachi  must 
bear the cost of this work. It should also refund the deposit paid by Mrs P together with 
interest at 8% from the date of payment to the date of settlement and pay Mrs P £500 for her 
inconvenience and distress as a result  of whats happened since  January 2018.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and direct  Hitachi  Capital Finance (UK) 
Plc to:
a)terminate the agreement with Mrs H and remove any information recorded  on Mrs 
Hs credit  file relating  to this agreement or complaint;
b) either arrange with Mrs P a convenient  time to remove the existing windows at its 
own expense or if they are removed by another contractor, reimburse  the cost of 
removal to Mrs P;
c)refund  the deposit of £2,500 paid by Mrs P together  with interest at 8% from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement;
d)Pay Mrs P £500 compensation for the trouble and inconvenience  caused by the poor 
installation and service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4237425