K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a term assurance and a critical illness  
policy when he took out his mortgage.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision  a copy of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  
I issued a provisional decision saying why I didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. I 
invited Mr E and Santander  to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. Santander accepted  my provisional decision  
and didnt have  anything further to add. 
Mr E disagreed with my decision, he said in summary:  
The Santander adviser knew he received sickness  benefits from his employer but still 
said PPI and critical illness cover  were compulsory;
He felt my provisional decision  confirmed  hed been mis-sold the critical illness  
policy as Id said the adviser hadnt  explained  it wasnt mandatory
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision  for the same reasons.
Mr E hasnt given me any information thats  materially different to what  Id already seen. But 
Ive carefully considered  his points.
Mr E feels  that because he had sickness benefits  from his employer, this meant he was mis-
sold the critical illness policy.  But I dont  agree.  PPI and critical illness policies  arent 
designed to cover the same need. Mr E says he didnt need  the critical illness policy  
because he had sick pay, but a critical illness policy is designed  to pay out a lump  sum in the 
event of a claim  not a monthly income.  Furthermore, any sick pay that Mr E wouldve 
received would be to cover normal living  expenses. The critical illness policy  was to cover  a 
particular  and significant  debt that Mr E owed. And theres also no guarantee that Mr E 
wouldve had the same job for the life of the mortgage  so I think it was suitable for 
Santander to recommend  this on top of the benefit Mr E said he had in place. Ive seen  that 
on the advisers fact-find it was noted  that Mr E didnt have any way to clear his mortgage in 
the event of a critical illness - so I cant say it was unreasonable of the adviser to 
recommend this to Mr E when hed said he had a need. 
Mr E has said he feels Ive agreed  with him that he was told it was compulsory  to take out 
the insurances. But thats not the case.  I think it is important to make  clear that my findings  
and provisional  decision are made on a balance of probabilities - what is more likely, than 
not, to have happened - not on what definitely did or didnt happen. I recognise  that theres a 
dispute over whether or not Mr E was told he must take out the insurances. I think whats  
more important is whats contained both in the terms and conditions  and on the mortgage 
offer Mr E received. These clearly show that it wasnt compulsory to take out the insurances. 
Ref: DRN46284582So I feel Mr E wouldve reasonably have been  aware these were  a recommendation not a 
must have.  So taking all that into account, I think its reasonable  to believe Mr E knew he 
didnt have to have the insurances and couldve cancelled these at any time.
I recognise that Mr E feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. But 
based on everything Ive seen,  I cant  say Santander have done anything wrong. So I wont  
be asking them to do anything more.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN46284583copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr E complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a term assurance and a critical illness policy 
when he took out his mortgage.
background
In 2008, Mr E took out a mortgage for £127,155 with Santander with a term of 17 years. At the same 
time he says he was also advised to take out a decreasing term assurance policy for £75,937 and a 
decreasing critical illness policy for £51,218  both with a term of 17 years to mirror the mortgage 
term.
In 2013, Mr E had a change in circumstances  and he wasnt able to continue paying for the policies  
so he cancelled them. But he continued paying towards his mortgage.
In 2018, Mr E complained  to Santander. He said that when he took out his mortgage in 2008, he was 
told he had to take the two policies for it to be agreed  and he wasnt aware  that they werent  
mandatory. He said that as hed been forced to take the policies when he didnt  need them, he 
wanted a full refund of the premiums hed paid  and compensation  for the inconvenience caused.
Santander initially rejected Mr Es complaint and subsequently  raised a jurisdiction objection. They  
said we couldnt  look at the complaint because they thought Mr E had referred  it to us too late. They 
did however  acknowledge their handling of Mr Es complaint  couldve been better so they offered him 
£100 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt agree  with Santander.  He thought that Mr E might not have realised what it 
meant on the mortgage offer where it said he didnt  need to take any insurance  or that he could  
cancel his policies whenever he wanted. He also thought that Mr E had only become  aware he could 
complain due to the increase in PPI mis-selling publicity.
Santander disagreed. They felt that Mr E was aware   at least in 2013 when he cancelled his policies 
 that they werent mandatory. So they asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
I said in my first provisional decision that I didnt  think Mr Es complaint  was one we could look at. But 
Mr E provided  information showing that it was brought to us within the timescales.  This information  
was given  to Santander  who subsequently agreed that a decision could be made based on the merits 
of the case.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have  arrived at a different conclusion to our investigator.  Ill explain why.
Firstly, I think  it is important to make clear that my findings and provisional decision are made  on a 
balance of probabilities  what is more likely,  than not, to have happened  not on what definitely did 
or didnt happen.
Mr E complains that he was mis-sold the term assurance and critical illness policies as he was told 
the policies were  mandatory in order to take out the mortgage. He feels  he shouldve been told that he 
didnt need to have them  to get the mortgage and if he did take them, that he could cancel them  at 
any time.
Ref: DRN46284584Santander have told us that their mortgage interviews  have always been structured in the same  way  
so that insurances arent discussed until after theyve  agreed  to lend the amount requested.  And 
because a mortgage has already been agreed in principle  before proceeding to the next stage of the 
interview  when insurances are discussed   deciding whether or not to accept the insurance  
recommendation wouldnt  have any influence on this decision. Ive seen evidence  that Mr E was given 
a formal mortgage offer at the end of September 2008  before the insurance application forms were  
signed in October 2008. So I think that Mr E would  reasonably have  been aware  that the insurances 
werent compulsory, as hed already had the mortgage agreed by this point.
Looking at the mortgage  offer given to Mr E, it states you are not required to take out any insurance 
through Abbey, and that the only required insurance  was buildings insurance  which didnt have to 
be taken with Abbey. It also says in the section  titled Part B  Details  of any conditions  that need to 
be met before the completion  of this offer that the property can be insured with another insurance 
company but must be in place before the mortgage starts.  I havent seen any evidence that any other 
insurance policies must be in place  as a condition of the mortgage. And I havent seen any evidence  
in the mortgage documentation  given  to Mr E stating  he must take out the term assurance or critical  
illness policies to get the mortgage. So based on the mortgage offer which Mr E received  in 
September 2008, I think he ought  reasonably  to have been aware  that the insurances werent  
mandatory.
Mr E said he was told the insurances were mandatory  by the adviser  for him to get his mortgage.  
However, Ive seen evidence that Mr E was given  the opportunity to review the policy documentation  
before deciding  to proceed with the advisers recommendations. Ive also seen that the adviser 
recommended Mr E take term and critical illness  cover  for the full amount of the mortgage  but he 
said this wasnt affordable.  Mr E then provided  a monthly amount that he felt was affordable for the 
adviser to arrange as much  cover as possible for this agreed amount. And I think that as Mr E gave 
the adviser a specific  amount that he felt was affordable and discussions took place  with him, he was 
aware the insurances were  recommended and not mandatory.
Ive also seen  when Mr Es policies were transferred to the new policy  insurer, the follow-up 
documentation from them noted there were no changes to the plan the adviser  recently 
recommended. So I also think it was clear from the subsequent documents  Mr E received, that the 
policies hed taken out werent mandatory.
Ive looked at the policy  documents that Mr E was given  for the term assurance and critical illness 
plans. Each  policy had separate documents including a direct debit, cancellation rights,  and 
cancellation terms  which state the policies can be cancelled within  30 days. So I feel its reasonable 
to think  that if Mr E believed he must agree to the policies  just to get the mortgage  approved, he 
couldve cancelled them  immediately after the mortgage  had actually started.
Mr E said he was told not to cancel the policies. But Ive looked at both the documents he was given  
when he was recommended the polices  by Abbey, and those provided  by the policy insurer, and 
I think  the policy wording which stated  You can change  your mind and cancel your plan was clear  
that if Mr E didnt want the policies he had the right to cancel.
Mr E has asked that I refer to the previous decisions hes received, but each case  is reviewed  on its 
own merits and previous decisions dont set a precedent for other complaints. I recognise that Mr E 
feels strongly about this. But based on the evidence Ive seen, I think he was aware  that the policies 
had been recommended  to him and werent  compulsory  to receiving a mortgage. And I dont think 
Santander treated Mr E unreasonably  by providing recommendations based on the needs theyd 
identified.
Ref: DRN46284585my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4628458