K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance,  (PPI),  policy.
Its been agreed that Financial Insurance Company Limited, (FICL), should accept
responsibility for the sale. For simplicity Ive referred  to FICL throughout my decision.
background
Mr B took out a store credit account in 1997.  The purchase took place in store.
. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr B disagreed 
the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive followed this in making my decision in Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I explain  why below.
I think that Mr B knew that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. I say this 
because Ive seen  his signed  store card application form. This has a section in it dealing  with 
PPI. I can see that that there is a cross in it requesting PPI. This appears,  like several other 
details on the form, to have been  printed. But, on balance, Im satisfied that FICLs 
representative printed  the form this way having  discussed Mr Bs wishes with him. And I 
think that he would have had the opportunity  to check  the form before signing it.
I cant be sure whether FICL recommend Mr B to take out the PPI or whether it left it up to 
him to make  the decision.  But, if it did make a recommendation,  FICL had to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that the policy  was suitable for Mr B. In any event, based on what I know  
about Mr Bs circumstances at the time and what I think were the likely terms of the policy, I 
find that it was suitable  because:
Mr B was eligible  for the PPI;
Mr B wasnt affected by any of the policys main limitations and restrictions   such  as 
those affecting  someone  with a pre-existing medical condition;
Mr B says that he was entitled  to sick pay from his employer and he thought  that this 
meant that he wouldnt have been able to make  a claim on the policy had he been  off 
work ill. But, following a successful  claim the PPI would have paid his monthly store  
credit account payments had he been  unable  to work because  of accident or sickness  or, 
indeed, involuntary  unemployment.  These payments would have been made for up to 12 
months and would have been  in addition to anything he got from his employment. So I 
think that the insurance could  have been  of use to Mr B;
The premiums were  no more than 70 pence a month and I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Mr B couldnt afford  this.
Ref: DRN49324472Its possible that FICL didnt tell Mr B everything he needed  to know about  the PPI so that he 
could make an informed  decision  whether  he wanted it or not. But from what Ive concluded 
above I dont think that Mr B would have made a different decision and decided not to take 
the PPI had he been given clearer information.  So I find that he hasnt lost out because of 
anything that FICL  may have done  wrong  during the sale.  Accordingly theres  nothing  that I 
require FICL  to put right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4932447