K821x#15complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Great  Lakes Insurance SE refused  to pay his claim after his mobile  
phone was stolen.
background
Mr R made  a claim on his insurance policy when  his phone was stolen shortly  after he got 
into work. He says he left the phone in his coat pocket in his unlocked locker for a few 
minutes while he got changed  in an adjacent room. He says CCTV showed an unknown  
man, who didnt work for his employer, managed to get past reception and the controlled 
access doors into the changing  room  and took the phone. 
Great Lakes declined Mr Rs claim saying hed left his phone unattended and hadnt taken 
reasonable precautions to prevent the theft.  But our investigator disagreed.  She thought  
Mr R had taken reasonable precautions in the circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  for me to decide is whether Great Lakes was entitled to decline Mr Rs claim. With 
that in mind, theres  no dispute that Mr Rs phone  was stolen and theft is covered by the 
policy. But the policy terms  and conditions also set out what isnt covered, which includes:
Any claim where all reasonable precautions have not been taken, and
Theft or loss of the device left unattended when it is away from the policyholders 
home
The policy says unattended means  where your device has been left unattended  and 
reasonable precautions have not been  taken and that the device is not within your sight at all 
times and/or out of your arms-length reach.
And reasonable precautions means all measures that would  be deemed appropriate to 
expect a person  to take in the circumstances to prevent loss, accidental  damage or theft of 
your device.
Mr R has given a plausible and consistent account of what went  on. I appreciate his phone  
was out of sight and not within arms reach  at the time it was stolen. But I think  he took 
reasonable precautions to protect  the phone. He was in what he considered to be a safe 
place within  his workplace   access to the lockers and changing room required individuals  to 
pass reception and use a fob to get through the locked doors. Great Lakes hasnt  disputed  
that the thief wasnt authorised to be in the door-controlled area. And I dont think Mr R 
appreciated the risk that an unauthorised person might manage  to get past reception  and the 
locked door and steal his phone.
I think, in these particular circumstances, that Mr R took reasonable care of his phone such  
that its fair to tell Great Lakes to pay his claim.
Ref: DRN48840342my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
Settle Mr Rs claim for the phone in line with the remaining terms of the policy
Pay Mr R £50 compensation in recognition of the trouble and upset hes suffered  due 
to the delay paying his claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4884034