K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with how Curtis  Banks Limited  have  dealt  with his self-invested pension  
plan (SIPP).  Hes unhappy with whats happened since  he asked for the SIPP to be 
transferred to another provider in 2009.  
background
Mr M took out his SIPP in 2005. At the time, the SIPP provider was a different  company to 
Curtis Banks. Over  the next ten years, the name  of the SIPP provider changed several  times 
due to various company takeovers. In March 2015, Curtis Banks became the SIPP  
administrator. 
A SIPP allows Mr M to invest the contributions hes paid into it. During the application 
process, Tilney Investment Management was appointed as the portfolio manager for his 
investments. 
In mid-2009 Mr M wanted to transfer his SIPP to a different provider. Over the following 
weeks, Tilney  began selling his investments so the proceeds could be transferred to the new 
SIPP. Most of Mr Ms investments were sold by mid-October 2009. The cash  from these was 
then transferred to the new SIPP provider, at its request,  as an interim payment.  
At that time,  the sale of the last three of Mr Ms investments  hadnt  yet completed.  This was 
because two of the funds  needed several  months notice before they could be sold.  The 
third, an investment called  the DB Absolute Diversified fund (DB fund) was being completely 
closed. 
The sales  of two of the remaining funds were  completed in early 2010. The cash from these 
sales was transferred to Mr Ms SIPP bank  account.  His portfolio  manager, Tilney, said it 
couldnt give an exact timeframe for the closure of the DB fund. But it did expect stage 
payments to be made as the fund was liquidated. A further interim payment was transferred 
from Mr Ms SIPP bank  account to his new provider in March 2012. This included  some 
stage payments from the continuing liquidation of the DB fund.  
Over the next couple of years, Mr M complained several times to the SIPP  provider. His 
complaints covered numerous points, but mainly, these centred on: the failure to fully 
complete the transfer to the new provider so he could close  his original SIPP;  the failure to 
give him details of what had happened  to the money  in the SIPP;  and, the ongoing SIPP  
administration fees. These issues led to Mr M taking court  action against the SIPP provider  
in early 2015. 
The court found  in Mr Ms favour. In February 2015, he was awarded around  £11,600.  Part 
of the award was for the then value of his SIPP - made up of the cash  in Mr Ms SIPP  bank 
account plus the remaining value of the DB fund. The following month Curtis Banks took 
over the administration of the SIPP. 
Mr M wrote to Curtis Banks in April 2015. He asked them to urgently account to him for the 
monies held in the SIPP. It seems that this letter was never  received. Then, in February 
2017, after hed received  a statement for his SIPP, Mr M asked Curtis Banks to send him a 
cheque for the outstanding balance. He wrote  again in March  2017 complaining that the 
2009 transfer of his investments still hadnt completed. Mr M asked various questions about 
Ref: DRN49903312the status of the DB fund. He was also unhappy  with the administration  fees Curtis Banks 
were asking him to pay. 
Curtis Banks didnt  uphold  the complaint. In summary, they explained that the SIPP  couldnt 
be closed as the DB fund was still being liquidated. Curtis Banks also gave Mr M a detailed  
breakdown of why the administration fees were outstanding. Mr M didnt agree with this 
response. He then brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint. He didnt think Curtis Banks had done 
anything wrong  in continuing  to charge administration fees. The adjudicator also suggested  
Mr M might want to get independent advice about his options with the DB fund. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the adjudicators view. He outlined why he didnt agree with it. Mr M 
also included a very detailed list of questions  about the administration  of the SIPP. He then 
listed his complaints against  Curtis  Banks as:
1)The failure to transfer the monies from the DB fund  to his SIPP provider;
2)Curtis Banks are treating the DB fund as an on-going investment;
3)The DB fund was transferred to the Curtis  Banks SIPP without  his knowledge or 
consent;
4)The failure to sell the DB fund means  Curtis Banks are responsible for any fall in the 
value of the DB fund; and
5) By wrongly treating the DB fund as an on-going  investment, Curtis  Banks  are now 
wrongly asking him for annual administration fees.
Our adjudicator answered Mr Ms questions via information  provided by Curtis Banks. But he 
repeated his view that this complaint  shouldnt  be upheld  and Curtis Banks  didnt need  to do 
anything. 
Again Mr M didnt agree. He asked our service to review his complaint.  In summary, Mr M 
said hed given no instructions to Curtis Banks to open a SIPP, and he never appointed them  
in any capacity. He also said our service hadnt carried out an audit to show what had 
happened to the money  in his SIPP. 
So this complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why. 
But first, I can see that Mr M has made numerous, detailed points in support of his 
complaint. Im very aware that Ive summarised  the situation in much less detail and in my 
own words. Im not responding to each individual point. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key issues here:  are Curtis  Bank responsible for the failure to transfer all 
Mr Ms investments to the new provider and then close  the SIPP; and, is it fair and 
reasonable for Curtis  Banks to ask Mr M to pay their administration fees? 
Our rules allow me to do this. No discourtesy is intended. This simply reflects  the informal  
nature of our service. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. 
Ref: DRN49903313I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual  point to be able to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
I want to make it clear from the start that this complaint is against Curtis Banks. They  took 
over the administration of Mr Ms SIPP in March 2015. Curtis Banks are only responsible  for 
the administration of the SIPP from this point onwards. A separate  complaint has been  set 
up against the previous SIPP provider. That complaint deals with the events before 
Curtis Banks involvement. So Im not dealing with any of those issues  in this decision. 
I would also like to clarify  the scope  of our service. As Ive just said,  our service is informal  
and is an alternative  to the courts.  My role is to decide this complaint. Mr M is quite correct 
when he says we havent carried out an audit to show where the monies in his SIPP  went. 
That isnt our role. We dont, and arent required to, offer an auditing  service. If Mr M wants  
such an audit, then its for him to instruct an appropriate professional, at his own expense. 
I would add that Ive looked at the SIPP  updates that Curtis Banks sent to Mr M for the 
12 month periods  ending  November 2015 and November 2016. These show  the position of 
his SIPP  at those  times.  These positions  are in line with what  Id expect to see. 
Ill now turn to Curtis Banks taking  over the administration of the SIPP.  Mr M has told us that 
he never opened a SIPP  with Curtis Banks. He says that they chose to place any monies 
into the SIPP without  his knowledge and that he didnt instruct them to do this. Mr M goes on 
to say the Curtis Banks  terms  and conditions dont apply to him as he never entered  into a 
contractual arrangement with them. But this isnt quite right. 
When Mr M opened his SIPP in 2005,  I can see the original providers terms and conditions 
included a variation clause. This would allow these to be changed, including  changes  to 
such things as the SIPP fees and the administrator. 
Mr M is right when  he says he never  opened  a SIPP with Curtis Banks. Curtis Banks never  
opened a SIPP for him. The SIPP Mr M has with Curtis Banks  is the same SIPP he opened 
in 2005 with the original  provider. Its just been rebranded as a Curtis Banks SIPP,  and the 
terms and conditions have been  varied. So Im satisfied the Curtis Banks terms and 
conditions do apply  to Mr Ms SIPP. 
Similarly, Curtis Banks  never placed any money or investments into the SIPP.  They just took 
over the administration of the original SIPP. The money and investments were  from Mr Ms 
original SIPP, opened in 2005. These were already in the SIPP when  Curtis  Banks  took over 
the administration. 
I can also see that Mr M was told by the previous  provider in January 2015 that Curtis Banks 
were taking over the SIPP administration.  Curtis  Banks also sent him a letter the following 
month about the transfer. This letter also confirmed the name of Mr Ms SIPP  was changing. 
Ill repeat  what Ive said above,  this wasnt a new SIPP. It was Mr Ms original SIPP  with a 
slightly different name. 
Both these  letters stated that Mr M could transfer his SIPP to a different provider. I can see 
that Mr M has said numerous times that his contract  with the original  provider stated he is 
free to transfer  his pension to a different provider without penalty. Mr M has provided an 
extract from his original  terms and conditions which confirms this is the case. He feels  that 
this contract has been breached because hes been  trying to transfer his pension  since 
2009, but he is still being charged administration fees and the transfer still hasnt  completed.  
Ref: DRN49903314But there is another part to this section of the terms and conditions. The wording provided by 
Mr M says that hes free to transfer  his SIPP to another  provider that is able to accept the 
transfer (my emphasis). This is where the problem lies. 
A SIPP typically allows a person  to invest their pension contributions  in a wide range of 
investments. Like most pension plans, there  are tax advantages in making contributions  to a 
SIPP and in the investments that are made  within it. I can see here that Mr M received tax 
relief on his original SIPP  contributions. There are numerous rules  and regulations  that apply 
to SIPPs. Its HM Revenue & Customers (HMRC) regulations that are particularly relevant to 
the situation here. 
Mr Ms SIPP acts like a storage facility for his investments and any cash  those investments 
might produce. Due to the tax advantages Mr M received,  his investments need to be held in 
a SIPP  or some other  equivalent scheme.  The investments cant simply be removed from 
the SIPP because  of the tax implications and any relevant  liability  to pay HMRC. The amount 
of that liability  will depend on Mr Ms individual tax circumstances. 
When Mr M asked  for his SIPP to be transferred into a new provider in 2009, the majority of 
his investments were  sold.  The resulting cash from these sales  was transferred to the new 
SIPP. The sale of two of the three remaining investments completed in 2010 with the cash 
from these also later transferred to the new SIPP. 
But, as above,  the DB Fund  was being  closed and wasnt  able to be sold in full at the time. 
As this couldnt be sold, it couldnt be converted into cash and then transferred. It might have 
been possible to transfer the DB fund in specie  that is transferring the whole investment 
to the new provider, rather than having to sell it first and then transferring the cash. 
But it seems  that the new SIPP provider wouldnt,  or couldnt, accept the DB fund investment 
in specie. It would only accept cash from the sale of the DB fund.  So while Mr M was free to 
transfer his SIPP to another provider that is able to accept the transfer, he chose a provider 
that was seemingly unwilling, or unable, to accept all of the transfer. That isnt the fault of 
Curtis Banks or the previous administrator. 
Mr M has asked  numerous times  why the DB fund cant be fully sold. I can see that Curtis 
Banks have already sent him copies of the DB funds audited annual reports  for the years 
2015 and 2016. Our adjudicator also sent Mr M a copy  of the funds activity report for 2017. 
These reports outline the position of the DB fund.  
Theres not a great deal more I can add to these,  other than to say that I know  the DB fund 
has been de-listed  from the relevant stock exchange. When  a fund, such as the DB fund, 
has been de-listed,  the shares  cant be readily bought and sold. Thats because there is no 
line of stock to trade. Usually, only active stocks  on a stock exchange, such  as the 
London Stock Exchange or Luxembourg Stock Exchange, can be traded. If the fund has 
been de-listed,  then they no longer exist in any available stock  exchange  and there is no 
market for them to trade. 
This lack of a ready available market and means  of trading is what  is preventing Mr Ms DB 
fund from being  completely  sold.  It does seem to be being sold in dribs and drabs, as and 
when someone  is found  who is willing buy some of the remaining DB fund shares.  But, as 
has been shown,  this can be a very long process, and is largely beyond the control of the 
fund itself. This is why no-one can tell Mr M when  the DB fund will be fully sold. While the DB 
Ref: DRN49903315fund is still open,  albeit de-listed, Mr M needs an appropriate storage facility,  such as the 
Curtis Banks SIPP, to keep it in. 
Overall, Im satisfied Curtis Banks  arent responsible for the DB fund not being transferred to 
Mr Ms new SIPP or the original SIPP not closing. HMRC rules  and regulations  mean he 
cant simply take the DB fund out of the SIPP and hold the investment himself. Nor can 
Curtis Banks close the SIPP  while there  is a live investment in it. 
Ill now turn to the on-going administration  fees. Mr M has repeatedly  said that Curtis Banks 
have wrongly treated  the SIPP as an on-going investment. I dont agree with Mr M here. 
While he isnt using the SIPP  to make any contributions or investments, it does still hold a 
live investment. While the DB fund may be de-listed, making it illiquid,  its still a current  
investment with a small value of around  £144  at the last estimate Ive seen. 
I would point out here that even though no investment activity is taking place in Mr Ms SIPP, 
there is still a cost to Curtis Banks in keeping it open  and administering  it. These costs 
involve various record  keeping and reporting  requirements, including  to HMRC. And as Ive 
already said, Curtis Banks cant close the SIPP while  it holds a live investment. 
Three administration fees of £790  each,  a total of £2,370, have become payable  since Curtis 
Banks took over the SIPP administration in early  2015.The fees became  due in 
January 2016,  2017 and 2018 respectively. The amount  of each fee is the same  as the 
previous administrator charged.  As Curtis Banks are still administering Mr Ms SIPP,  Im 
satisfied its fair and reasonable for them to ask Mr M to pay the fees. 
Its possible that Mr M may be able to find another provider who is willing  to accept a transfer  
of the DB fund in specie. But Mr M would still have  to pay administration fees to that 
provider. And, similar  to the provider of the SIPP he opened in 2009, I think  most  alternative 
providers would also be unlikely  to accept an in specie transfer of this investment. 
I do sympathise with Mr M and the position  he finds himself in with the DB fund. Ive spoken 
to Curtis Banks to see what options might  be available to Mr M to try and resolve this 
situation. In turn, theyve spoken  to the investment portfolio manager for this SIPP, Tilney. 
Its been suggested that Mr M could transfer the DB fund to a general  investment account 
(GIA) with Tilney. Curtis Banks have said he would  need to take advice  from a financial 
adviser about this, at his own expense. For the avoidance of doubt, Curtis  Banks  doesnt  
give investment advice. As far as Im aware,  Mr M already has an adviser acting for him who 
also deals with his other  SIPP. 
Broadly speaking, the process would be for Mr M to buy  the DB fund from the Curtis Banks 
SIPP. Firstly, a fair market value would be established for the DB fund. As Ive said,  the last 
value Ive seen  for this was £144.  Once the GIA is opened, Mr M would need to give Tilney  a 
cheque for the, yet to be established,  fair market value of the DB fund. 
The transfer of the DB fund to the GIA could then take place, leaving only the cash  in Mr Ms 
SIPP bank  account,  currently around  £594.25 left in the SIPP.  This would be offset against 
part of the outstanding administration fees. As above, these currently total £2,370  for 2016,  
2017 & 2018. Tilney has said it would carry out the transfer free of commission  and charges. 
Mr M and his financial adviser might want to confirm this is the case  and check  there would 
be no ongoing GIA administration fees. 
Ref: DRN49903316Curtis Banks have  told me that if Mr M does transfer  the DB fund to a GIA with Tilney,  they 
will cancel the 2018 fee and not raise an invoice for the 2019 fee. After the cash  in the SIPP 
bank account  is offset  against the outstanding fees, Mr M would owe Curtis Banks  £985.75 
rather than £1775.75 (£2,370 minus the cash of around £594.25 in the SIPP bank  account).  
Once this was paid, the SIPP could be closed. 
As Ive already  said, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for Curtis Banks to ask Mr M to pay 
the outstanding administration fees. So I think their proposal to reduce the amount owed, 
subject to the DB fund being  transferred to a GIA, is also fair and reasonable. 
I can understand why Mr M might  find it strange that hes being  asked to buy his own 
investment. But the rules  and regulations relating  to SIPPs mean that a fair market  value  
needs to be paid before any transfer  can take place. If Mr M wants to explore this option 
further, I would  expect both Curtis Banks  and Tilney to provide his financial adviser with all 
the relevant details. 
Finally, its also worth  pointing out that Mr M has already been paid the then value of the DB 
fund in 2015 as part of his court settlement.  The previous  SIPP provider paid Mr M 
£3,085.74 plus interest  and substantial costs. The figure of £3,085.74 included £1,035.87 for 
the DB fund, far in excess of its likely  current value. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr M to decide if he wants 
to explore further the options outlined by Curtis Banks Limited that Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4990331