K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr D complain that Santander  UK Plc hasnt upheld their complaint and refunded a 
card payment they made  to a plumbing company.
background
Mrs and Mr D contacted  a plumbing  company to sort out a plumbing problem and they were 
charged £1,900  for this. They agreed to pay this work but say they later found out it didnt 
need doing and the company  they used was known by trading standards  for doing fraudulent 
work. They asked  Santander  to raise  a chargeback request for a refund. It said to do so it 
needs evidence  the company hadnt completed the work correctly as it has to support any 
chargeback it raises with Visa. And as it didnt get this it didnt make the chargeback  request.
Mrs and Mr D arent  happy with this and want  the amount they paid refunded.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
Mrs and Mr D authorised  the £1,900 payment to the plumbing  company and 
Santander didnt  act unfairly by processing  it.
The chargeback  scheme isnt run by Santander  and it doesnt decide whether a 
chargeback is approved. Santander provides evidence for Visa to consider the 
chargeback.  So,  its reasonable for Santander to ask Mrs and Mr D for evidence  of 
the dispute to present to Visa. As they dont  appear  to have provided this to 
Santander it hasnt  acted unfairly  by not raising a chargeback  with Visa.
Mrs and Mr D say they sent evidence from another company of what had happened to 
Santander. It was sent by recorded delivery in the post but they dont  have evidence  of this 
now. Theyve asked for an ombudsman  review.
Santander says it didnt get this information  and its pointed out that the time limit for making 
a chargeback has now passed.  But it offered to pay Mrs and Mr D £40 compensation for its 
representative not fully understanding why they wanted to make a claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with the situation Mrs and Mr D have unfortunately found  themselves in.
But the simple  fact is Santander has to present evidence to Visa when requesting  a 
chargeback and it didnt have this. Although Mrs and Mr D say evidence was sent by 
recorded post to Santander, it says it didnt receive it. And they dont  have proof of this letter  
being received  by Santander.
Overall although  I recognise  Mrs and Mr Ds frustration I havent  seen anything  on the 
available evidence to suggest on balance that Santander has done  anything wrong. And I 
dont think I can fairly  or reasonably require it to do anything more including refunding  the 
£1,900 to Mrs and Mr D as theyd like.
Ref: DRN40608812I simply leave  it to Mrs and Mr D to decide, if they havent already done so, if they now want 
to accept Santanders offer of some compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4060881