K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint concerns a whole of life policy sold by ReAssure Limited. 
background
Mr and Mrs S originally  complained in 2016  about  an increase in the level of premiums  for 
the policy. The complaint was investigated by this service and a final decision issued by 
another ombudsman.  
My decision  therefore deals solely with a very specific further point that Mr and Mrs S have 
raised subsequent  to the previous decision being  issued. 
In 2016 Mr and Mrs S asked for the policys  sum assured to be reduced  to £100,000. And 
the monthly premiums  were increased  to £99.65.  This was intended to be the situation  with 
the policy until the next review in 2022. 
But in September 2018  Mr and Mrs S became aware that the monthly cost of the life cover 
provided by the policy (as opposed to the cost of the premiums)  was £187.72. Its the 
difference between  these  figures that is the crux of the new complaint. Mr and Mrs S were 
under the impression that the increased  premiums of £99.65 would cover the cost of life 
cover.
ReAssure explained  that although the new premium amount was fixed until 2022  the 
underlying life cover cost could change and would most likely increase as the cost of life 
cover became greater  as Mr and Mrs S got older   hence the £187.72 figure.  ReAssure 
explained that the difference  between the two figures was met from the investment element 
of the policy, which  is how whole of life policies  work. It was satisfied it was administering the 
policy correctly.  
Unhappy with this explanation the complaint was referred to this service. Our adjudicator 
reached the same conclusion as ReAssure, highlighting the additional  explanation  about the 
operation of the policy given in the previous  final decision. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt  accept this, so the matters been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr and Mrs S have queried the apparent discrepancy between  the monthly 
premium and the cost of life cover. If, for whatever reason, they were under the impression 
that the cost of life cover  was £99.65 per month  when it was actually  in 2018 at least  
£187.72, then this will have been quite a shock. 
But these  sorts of figures are actually entirely  normal and in keeping  with how a whole of life 
policy works. When a review of this type of policy takes place the policy  provider will work 
out a premium based upon a number  of different factors. These include the amount already 
held in the policys investment element, likely  future investment returns,  and the likely future 
cost of life cover. 
Ref: DRN47609912This premium amount will then be guaranteed  until the next review. But the underlying  
figures and assumptions  will unavoidably change  particularly the cost of life cover, which  
will increase  with the ages of the policyholders. So its unlikely the premium alone will 
continue to meets the costs for the full five years. And thats where the investment element 
of the policy  comes in. Its used  to subsidise the premiums at the point at which they no 
longer cover  all the costs.  And itll do so until the next review  when  the whole thing is 
reassessed and a new premium set.
So even if Mr and Mrs S had paid even higher premiums (of £187.72) following the 2016  
review, while  these  might have met  or been in excess of  the cost of life cover  until 2018,  
they would  still have been insufficient to cover the cost of life cover until the next review in 
2022, as by then the life cover cost would have likely increased to even more than £187.22.
So, in summary,  Im satisfied that ReAssures figures are correct  and that it appears  to have 
administered the policy correctly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 September 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4760991