K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Portman Building  Society mis-sold her two payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policies  in connection  with her mortgage.
background
In March 1994 Miss G took out a mortgage with Portman. In January 1995  Miss G took out 
PPI to cover her income and protect  her mortgage  payments in the event she couldnt work 
through accident, sickness or if she lost her job.
The policy cost £11.70 a month and it provided  a benefit to approximately match  Miss Gs 
monthly mortgage payment of £200  per month.
In May 2003  Miss G extended  her mortgage with Portman. At the same time she extended 
her PPI cover. The new cover cost £15.66 a month and it provided a benefit to 
approximately match Miss Gs new monthly mortgage payment of £265 per month.
Upon a successful  claim the policies would  have paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
Miss Gs mortgage and the PPI ended in 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Gs complaint. The adjudicator  said the evidence  showed 
that Miss G chose to take out the PPI on both occasions and there was nothing to indicate 
shed lost out as a result.
Miss G disagrees so the complaint  comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Miss G says this was an advised  sale on both occasions and that Portman recommended 
she should have  the PPI. Portman says they were both non advised sales. Ive decided to 
look at them as advised sales as this is to Miss Gs advantage and it doesnt affect the 
outcome Ive reached. So Portman not only had to provide Miss G with enough information 
about the policies so she could make an informed decision  about  them.  It also had to ensure 
the policies were right or suitable for her based  on her needs  and circumstances  at the time. 
did Portman make it clear to Miss G that she had a choice about  PPI?
The first PPI policy was sold in January 1995, which was 8 months after the she had taken 
out the mortgage. This means  she originally had the mortgage without PPI and so I think  its 
more likely than not that she knew the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it out in 
January 1995.
By the time of the second sale in May 2003, I think its more  likely than not that she would 
have still been  aware that the PPI was optional. I say this because  Miss G would have had 
Ref: DRN47379352annual renewals letters for the previous  7 years.  And although I dont know what Portman 
said to Miss G at the time of the second  sale, I do have the PPI amendment  application form 
from the time which Miss G has signed. I also have a copy  of the letter sent to her in June 
2003 confirming  that her PPI had been  amended  as requested.
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Miss Gs complaint) it is more likely 
than not Portman  presented the policies on either  occasion to Miss G as compulsory  or that 
it didnt tell her about the policies at all. So I think Miss G understood she had a choice and 
chose to take the PPI both times.
did things  happen  as they should have done  was Miss  G properly  advised and 
informed?
if not  has Miss G lost out?
I dont know what Portman  said or did when  it recommended the PPI to Miss G in either 
sale. I also dont know what information Miss G was given about  PPI, for example, whether 
she was told about the significant  exclusions and limitations of cover.  I find it unlikely Miss G 
agreed to take the cover  out without knowing anything about  it, but I dont know if she 
received everything  she needed to know to allow her to make informed decisions.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when Portman  
recommended to Miss G that she take out PPI. I accept Miss G may not have been  treated 
fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Miss G has lost out as a result. I say this 
because, given Miss Gs circumstances and needs  at the time of both sales,  I think the 
policy cover  was suitable for her. And I find it unlikely that Miss G would have acted 
differently and not gone ahead with the cover on either occasion if Portman had given her 
more information.  My reasons are as follows:
Miss G was eligible  for the cover and all its benefits
Miss G was employed and in good health at the time of both sales, so it doesnt 
appear she would have been affected by any of the key exclusions / limitations of the 
cover such  as existing medical condition  exclusions  or unusual  employment terms.
Miss G was buying the house  on her own. I note that Miss G may have had sick pay 
entitlement from either or both her employers, which could have helped her make  the 
mortgage payments  if she was off work  ill. But the policy would  have paid out in 
addition to Miss Gs sick pay and for longer  than her employers if necessary  up to 
12 months for each  claim. At both times Miss G had limited  other  means to help her if 
she lost her job. So I think Miss G had a need for cover throughout the mortgage  and 
that the policies would  have been  useful to her if Miss G found she was unable to 
work. It could have helped  her financially  at what would be a difficult time - it could 
have helped her protect  her home.
I find it unlikely Miss G would have agreed to something without having some 
understanding of the cost. And I think its unlikely she would  have declined  either  
policy solely on the basis of the costs had they been made clearer  to her. Ive already 
said she had a need for it and at under £16 per month both policies appear to have 
been affordable.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policies were sold and 
Miss G may not have been treated fairly and reasonably by Portman in its dealings with her, 
I find shes not lost out. This is because, on balance, for the reasons  Ive detailed above,  I 
Ref: DRN47379353think Miss G would have been  in the same position if Portman had done more and properly 
advised and informed her - I think she would have still taken out both the PPI policies.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Miss G hasnt lost out as a result of taking out 
the PPI policies with her mortgage, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4737935