K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2003. Miss H says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (BOS) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Miss H disagrees so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
In my provisional decision of 31 January 2019,  I set out why I wasnt  minded to uphold  the 
complaint about  the mis-sale of the policy and I invited  both parties  to provide any further 
submissions before I reached a final decision.  Neither party has responded to my provisional 
decision with any additional  submissions or comments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  the following.  
Currently, I dont think this policy was mis-sold  and Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Miss Hs application form which had the option  of selecting PPI cover.  An 
X has been placed in the box requesting cover. There was nothing on this form indicating  
Miss H had to take PPI, so she couldve left it blank if she didnt want it - much like she did 
for another  product that was also on offer. Miss H has signed the form to confirm the 
selections made. And while  the form may have been  completed in branch, I wouldve 
expected Miss H to have  looked over the form before signing it. So, overall,  I think BOS 
made it clear  Miss H didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
BOS recommended the PPI to Miss H so it had to check the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, 
she was eligible for the policy and it also looks like it was affordable.
Miss H says she was self-employed at a family  business at the time of sale.  She also said 
she was self-employed  between 2004 and 2006 but this was after shed already bought the 
PPI in 2003. Her credit card application  indicated shed been employed at her employers for 
over four years. Ive asked Miss H to clarify her circumstances but she hasnt  replied so Ive 
had to assess her case based on the information  Ive got available.
As Miss Hs credit card application form is from the time of sale, I think  its more likely to 
reflect her true position at the time of sale. As an employed individual,  she wouldnt be 
caught by any of the terms related  to unusual work  arrangements. But in any event, I have 
also looked at the terms related to self-employed people. And while  some  policy  terms do 
make it more difficult for self-employed people  to make a claim for unemployment, I have 
looked at the terms of this policy, and I dont think it wouldve been more  difficult  for Miss H 
Ref: DRN40010902to make a claim, even  if she had been self-employed.  And it doesnt look like, she was 
affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
Based on what Ive seen,  Miss H also seems to have had a need for the cover.  Miss H told 
us she had no sick pay provided by her employer, but as explained above, I dont know 
which employer she is referring  to when she gave us this information. As she was more  
likely to be employed, she may have had some employee benefits  that she hasnt told us 
about. Shes also said her family couldve helped her.
But this policy wouldve paid out on top of any employee benefits  she mightve had. It also 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if Miss H was unable  to work because  illness,  injury or 
unemployment. And while I have no doubt  her family wouldve wanted  to help her, their 
ability to help wouldve  depended on their own circumstances  at the time why couldve 
changed. So based on the limited  information  Ive seen, I still think  the PPI couldve been  
useful for her.
Its possible the information BOS gave Miss H about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  Based on everything 
Ive seen, I dont  think  better information  about the PPI would have put her off taking out the 
cover.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything 
Miss H paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Miss H back some of the cost of the 
PPI. BOS will make arrangements  to pay Miss H once Ive issued my final decision. I dont 
think it needs to do anything more.
So having  again reviewed Miss Hs case in full  without any new points for me to consider, I 
find no reason to depart from my original  findings  as set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4001090