K820x#14complaint
P, a limited  company, represented  by one of its directors, Mr H, has complained about Jelf 
Insurance Brokers  Limited. Jelf arranged material damage and liability  insurance  cover for P 
for a number of years. When Ps insurer cancelled its policy mid-term, Mr H thought this was 
Jelfs fault.
 
background
Ps business involves  letting  land and/or buildings to commercial businesses.  Jelf had 
arranged cover for this for P over many years. In 2011 P and Jelf agreed a list of which  
businesses, and their occupation  type, leased  which buildings. A business Ill refer to as R 
was recorded  as a skip hire company.   
In 2011 Jelf arranged cover  for P with Insurer1. Jelfs paperwork sent to P at the time 
confirmed Jelf had determined Ps demand and needs based on information provided to it, 
which included the agreed list of businesses,  and on that basis it felt Insurer1s policy  was 
suitable. This policy renewed over subsequent years. At each renewal Jelf corresponded 
with P, with appropriate  amendments to the cover being sought and agreed. In 2013 the 
2011 list of businesses was copied  to Insurer1 as part of the renewal process. Particularly  
detailed correspondence  occurred at renewal in summer 2017.  The renewal was agreed  in 
August 2017 and policy documents were provided to P.
In late January 2018 one of Ps directors asked Jelf for a copy  of the most recent  schedule.  
Upon receipt the director noted that Insurer1  had all the businesses grouped under a 
heading of builders , when there was actually a mix of business types. The director told Jelf 
that Rs business was waste  recycling . Jelf provided updates  to Insurer1 and Insurer1 said 
if it had known there was waste  recycling on site, it wouldnt have offered cover.  Insurer1 
explained to Jelf that it was entitled to avoid Ps cover from inception. However, Insurer1 
said, given the overtures Jelf made to it, it would agree  to cancel the cover  mid-term instead, 
which it felt was generous  as it would mean  that P had still had cover since 2011.  Jelf put the 
offer to P and it was agreed. Alternate cover going  forwards, via a different insurer,  was then 
found but Mr H was unhappy.
Mr H felt Ps position had been negatively affected  by this, not least  by having to declare a 
cancellation at every future insurance  application. Mr H said he hadnt understood the 
importance of Rs business but Jelf should  have  done and it had known Rs skip hire 
business involved waste recycling. Mr H said Jelf should have thought to advise him that this 
was something an insurer  would want to know about and/or recorded  the business  type 
correctly. If it had, suitable cover could  have been found from the outset and the mid-term 
cancellation, and all the related stress  it caused, would have been avoided.  
In its final response sent to Mr H in August  2019,  Jelf said it had arranged  cover for P based  
on the information it had been  given, and Insurer1 had not asked it to gather any more detail. 
Jelf also said that policy documentation was always sent to P and P agreed each year to 
proceed with cover.  Jelf explained  that when it had been asked to make  certain  amendments  
in 2018, which included Rs business type,  it had actioned that request. In summary Jelf said 
it didnt think it had acted  unreasonably.  
When Mr H brought Ps complaint to us, our investigator didnt uphold it. She noted that P 
hadnt told Jelf until 2018 that R operated  as a waste recycling business and felt that Jelf 
hadnt done anything wrong.  
Ref: DRN47697222Mr H disagreed with her findings. Mr H said he certainly had not been aware that this activity  
was something his insurer would have wanted  to know about  and he had relied on Jelf to 
make up for his own lack of expertise and knowledge. He said that even Insurer1 had 
blamed Jelf. He maintained that Jelf had known about the waste recycling activity, or at least  
that it should have thought that skip hire would likely include an element of recycling.  But 
he remained  of the view, if it was felt that Jelf had not known this, that Jelf had not done  
enough to correctly establish Ps needs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jelf acted in an advisory  capacity for P. It was required  to establish, within reason, what Ps 
demand and needs  were, and then find an insurance policy  that matched those 
requirements. Jelf set out details about how it would do that in a terms of business 
document. Whilst I know Mr H has said that Ps current broker visits the premises  to 
determine what is required  Jelf never  set out to offer that type of service. 
I know there was a business relationship  that existed at one time between P and Jelf outside 
of the insurance  contract.  I understand why Mr H thinks that might  have equated  to Jelf 
knowing about  Rs waste recycling  activity. But Im not persuaded that I could reasonably  
say that such extraneous  activity equates to Jelf, when acting in an official  capacity for P, 
having knowledge of the waste  recycling.  I certainly havent seen any clear evidence,  or 
acknowledgment from Jelf, that, at any time prior to 2018, any of its key staff knew of the 
activity and that P hadnt disclosed this.
Jelf did have a duty to advise P. But P also had a duty to tell Jelf everything it might need to 
know. And Jelf was entitled to have expected it to have done  so. It wasnt for it to question 
that detail. 
I appreciate that Mr H says he wasnt aware that the waste recycling nuance would be 
important, especially given the layout of the site. But Im satisfied that Jelf had made him 
aware of the importance of providing  accurate  information, so not just information  which  he 
felt was important. And I note that, in reviewing  the insurers  policy documents in 2018  
which had held the same  content  since 2011,  and had been reviewed by P each year,  with a 
particularly detailed review occurring in 2017  one of Ps directors  did feel it was necessary 
to correct the business type recorded.  At that time the director  did not refer to R as a skip 
hire company but told Jelf its business was waste recycling.  Ive seen no good reason why 
P hadnt sought to provide  this information before. And Im satisfied that Jelf had given it 
every reasonable opportunity and every  suitable  prompt it could reasonably  have been  
expected to give, to cause  it to do so. It wasnt for Jelf to assume the detail given to it was 
wrong or incomplete,  as I said above,  it was entitled to trust P.
Thats not to say that I think P mislead Jelf. Rather I think  its a case that P made a mistake. 
Unfortunately for P I dont  think  this was a mistake that Jelf could reasonably  have foreseen,  
expected, or noted. I think Jelf acted within the parameters of its role and agreement with P 
to reasonably establish Ps needs  and find suitable  cover based on that information.  
Ref: DRN47697223my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Jelf Insurance  Brokers  Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4769722