K820x#14Complaint
Mr J has complained that Indigo  Michael  Limited (trading as SafetyNet Credit  (SNC))  added  
two years worth of admin  charges to a £23 balance  which has resulted in a balance  of £525. 
Mr J also wants  SNC  to update his credit file.
Background
Mr J approached SNC for a running  credit facility in August 2013. This was a running credit  
account where a consumer could either  request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account  once  their account balance fell below  a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. The most  recent information provided by SNC  shows 
there is an outstanding  balance  of £525.
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Js complaint. He was satisfied that there  was an 
outstanding debt for which  Mr J was liable. And SNC had made regular attempts to try and 
contact him about  repaying the balance.  Due to this, our adjudicator thought SNC  had dealt  
with Mr Js complaint fairly  and he didnt think SNC  needed to do anything more.
Mr J disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for his complaint to be looked into again. As 
no agreement could  be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Based on all the information I have seen,  Im not 
upholding Mr Js complaint. And Id like to explain  why in more detail.
Mr Js borrowing history shows he was using his facility account between  August 2013 and 
August 2014.  After  repaying what he owed in August 2014,  he didnt need use the facility  for 
around 15 months. But Mr J then came back for further borrowing in November 2015  he 
borrowed £250 on 12 November 2015  and then the following day a further £125. So Im 
satisfied that by the end of November 2015, Mr J had an outstanding principal balance  of 
£375 plus any interest and charges that may have occurred  an amount that needed to be 
repaid. 
Ive looked at Mr Js credit  agreement which was issued at the time he was given the facility 
in August 2013. The credit agreement says;
you will be charged on your credit account at a rate of 1% per day for each day during 
which you have  a balance outstanding (whether for all or part of that day) on the daily 
outstanding capital balance of your SafetyNet facility from and including the date of each 
Credit Instalment for a maximum of 40 days.
As Mr J had borrowed  £375, the estimated  amount of interest that would be added to this 
sum  up to the 40 day limit prescribed in the credit agreement - comes to around  £150. 
Because the interest is capped, no further interest  or charges appears to be allowed to be 
added to the balance after the first 40 days from when the drawdown occurred. 
Ref: DRN45655252So, to me, it seems the current  outstanding  balance  of £525 is made up of the principal Mr J 
borrowed along with the amount of interest  charged for 40 days. And that no additional 
charges have been applied to the balance.  So the total outstanding balance  sum was 
reached by January 2016. 
After Mr J borrowed the £375, his first repayment  would have been  £23  had he just made  
the minimum payment  by 4 January 2016. But it seems this payment wasnt  made  and so 
SNC contacted him about this. 
The communication notes  supplied to us by SNC show that there was some contact with 
Mr J on 14 January 2016. It seems Mr J told SNC that he had fallen into arrears due to 
Christmas being hectic and that he could pay make a minimum repayment of £49.25  by 
22 January 2016   this amount covered  both his January and February repayments. The 
notes also suggest  that SNC told him the consequences of missing repayment but SNC 
agreed to hold the account until the payment  was made. It also seems  like SNC provided 
Mr J with its bank details.  As there was a conversation about the outstanding debt and the 
minimum repayments, Im satisfied that Mr J was aware that a payment  needed  to be made 
and that SNC made him aware of the consequences of not making his repayments.
But this payment wasnt made on the agreed  date. After 22 January  2016  I can see that 
SNC made a number  of attempts to contact  Mr J via email, text and telephone. Ultimately  no 
payments were made  towards the balance that Mr J owed so SNC was within its right to 
default the account, because it would seem given there  was no repayment  or contact that 
the relationship  between  Mr J and SNC had broken down. 
Understandably, Mr J is concerned about  his credit file and the information  that has been 
recorded on it. Whilst we dont have a copy of Mr Js credit file in order  to see what was 
recorded, SNCs communication  records show a Default Notice was issued on 9 May 2016. 
Given standard industry practice it seems  that a default was likely  added to his credit file 
between 2 and 4 weeks after this date. 
I dont think SNC defaulting  the account  is wrong, because as Ive explained above, Mr J 
hadnt made his repayments in line with the credit agreement and he hadnt been in touch 
with SNC  after he failed to make  the payment at the end of January 2016.  Therefore, a 
default appears to be an accurate reflection of the way Mr J ran his account. 
However, I do accept that SNCs emails  notifying  Mr J of the outstanding balance  could have  
caused him confusion  as they seem to imply a levy has been charged every  month  (for 
nearly 18 months) which brought  Mr Js outstanding balance to £525.
However, The Notice of Sums in Arrears (NOSIA) emails  provided by Mr J disclose the 
minimum monthly repayment due each  month  (for January  and February 2016) and then 
what Mr J couldve  repaid  in order to clear the balance. The total seems  to continue up to the 
monthly prior to the email  being sent (January  2019)  because  it shows that Mr J hasnt  made 
any payment up to this time. Had Mr J been  making repayments he wouldnt have repaid 
more than £525.  But, Im satisfied when looking at the statement of account an outstanding 
balance remains of £525.  
I dont think SNC was wrong  in the way it has handled Mr Js facility, so it doesnt have to 
take any further action.  There  is still an outstanding balance which Mr J will need  to repay. 
But I would like to remind SNC of its duty to treat Mr J fairly when coming to any sort of 
repayment arrangement. 
Ref: DRN45655253As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing  
for Mr J. But I hope that hell feel his concerns  have  been listened to.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Robert Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4565525