K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Madison CF UK Limited was irresponsible in granting her a loan.
background
Miss M took out a loan for £3,500 in January 2016 repayable over 24 months at £275.75 a 
month. She says she initially contacted Madison in January, but wasnt  sure if she could 
afford the loan and only took it out after the business kept calling her. She says she had 
more than one loan with payday  lenders  and was struggling to meet  her repayments. She 
sought to repay the loan early but was told she would still have to pay the interest.
In March 2016 she told Madison of her situation and sought help from a debt management 
charity which  arranged  a debt management  plan.  Madison set up an arrangement  to pay, but 
didnt write  of any interest. It did explain that if she paid it off early then the interest  would be 
reduced. 
Madison said Miss M made a full application  on 3 January  and after processing the request it 
called Miss M to let her know what it was prepared to offer.  It said she wanted  to think about  
it. Madison said it would need a bank statement if it was to proceed and Miss M provided 
one. It called her again to let her know the loan had been approved  and Miss M signed for it. 
Miss Ms complaint was rejected by Madison. She said she had to borrow  again to cover the 
repayments and she had struggled financially. She said she had been  called repeatedly  by 
Madison to persuade her to take the loan and in the end she had to borrow from relatives to 
survive. She said her credit reports from the time showed she had financial problems.
Madison said it had gone through its correct processes and had made adequate checks. 
She then brought her complaint to this service where it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld.
He thought Madison had made the terms and conditions of the loan sufficiently clear to Miss 
M and had carried out suitable checks before offering her the loan. He also considered  Miss 
Ms complaint that she had repaid the loan early,  but Madison hadnt reduced the interest 
charge. However,  he noted that the final payment was made in December 2017 which meant  
that the loan hadnt  been  fully repaid until it ran the full term. 
He also considered how Madison dealt with Miss M when she entered  into a debt 
management plan after taking advice from debt management company. She had expected 
that the business would waive  interest, but he explained that it wasnt  obliged  to do so in the 
circumstances. He said the adviser had agreed  to put the loan on hold until the debt 
management company  could  make  contact.
Miss M didnt agree and said she had felt pressurised into taking out the loan. She said the 
loan agreement was unfair and Madison had taken advantage of her situation. She said it 
wasnt a level paying field.
Ref: DRN40241892my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened  to the call between Miss M and Madison  and I see that at the outset  Miss M 
explained she had spent more over Christmas than planned and she had taken out some 
payday loans.  She wished  to use the money from Madison to repay  those. She also 
expressed concern  that having  taken  out those loans would prevent Madison from lending to 
her. After  taking advice  the adviser said this wouldnt be an issue. 
Miss M also expressed some surprise at the amount repayable and said she wished to think  
about it. Madison  called the next day about  the copy bank statement it needed  and Miss M 
said she was getting it from the bank. She supplied it quickly  thereafter and the loan was 
made when  she signed  her agreement.
I appreciate Miss M felt pressurised, but the contact  notes for the business dont show the 
calls she says it made. I also note that she didnt  agree straight away  and took time to 
decide whether  to proceed. I have noted  that Madison carried  out credit  checks  as well as 
reviewing her bank statement and I dont believe its decision to lend was unreasonable.
Later when  Miss M called in again she asked  if she could  increase her loan. This wasnt 
granted, but I am not clear if she actively pursued  this option. When she fell into financial 
difficulties I believe Madison did as I would expect.  It put the account on hold and waited for 
contact from the debt management  company. It isnt obliged to forgo the interest which  Miss 
M agreed to pay and I gather she was able to repay the loan with help from relatives.  
She didnt  repay the loan early and so the full interest was chargeable. If she had repaid it in 
full before the term then Madison has explained  that the interest charge would have  been  
reduced. I also believe this was explained  when she took out the loan.
While I have every sympathy with Miss M I dont consider I can uphold her complaint. In 
short she asked for a loan and Madison said yes and it will cost this much.  Miss M took the 
decision to accept the offer it made.  I dont believe it coerced her. I can understand her 
circumstances where  such that she needed to borrow money, but I cannot  hold Madison 
responsible for that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject  my decision before 
2 October 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4024189