K821x#15complaint
Mr A has brought a complaint  on behalf of Mrs A, for whom  he has a lasting power of 
attorney. He asked Lloyds  Bank  General Insurance Limited to accept  a claim on the legal 
liabilities part of Mrs As buildings insurance cover which it provided. It declined.
background
In September  2018 Mr A became aware  that a court judgement had been entered against 
Mrs A in relation to a personal injury claim that had been made against her and another 
defendant. The second defendant is a relative who lives abroad and whom Mr A doesnt 
act for. Mr A sought some  legal advice  and contacted Lloyds in October 2018.
Lloyds noted that the claim was in relation to an engineer that had allegedly  visited 
Mrs As property  in 2014 and had tripped over a carpet, injuring  his back  and elbow as 
well as suffering psychological  trauma. Lloyds also noted that Mrs A only had a buildings  
policy with it, not contents. It said the buildings policy wouldnt respond to such a claim as 
that was, in effect, made under the occupiers liability for the property and the buildings  
policy only offers cover  for claims that arise  from the owners liability.  In December 2018  
Lloyds issued a final response in which it confirmed  it had declined Mrs As claim. Mr A 
complained to us.
Our investigator noted that this service  has a long-standing approach to such  situations  
in short  where  there  is no contents cover we view that the buildings cover should respond. 
He said Lloyds should deal with the liability claim and pay Mr A £300 for the upset hed 
been caused by its decline.
Mr A initially  accepted the findings and advised that the court  claim was still on hold. But 
later he said that he thought that £300 compensation wasnt  enough for what hed been 
through as a result of Lloyds  declining  the claim. He also didnt think  it was enough to 
deter an insurer from making failures in the future.
Lloyds disagreed. It said it doesnt  agree  with this services approach in this situation and, 
in any event its policy wording is clear  the cover available  under the buildings  section  
only extends to the owners liability. Lloyds said the building policy  isnt priced  to include 
the risk for occupiers  liability  which is provided as a standard  under the contents cover. It 
reiterated its view that, as the liability  claim stemmed from a contents item (the carpet  that 
was tripped over, rather than a part of the buildings),  the appropriate cover  was only 
available under the contents part of the policy, which Mrs A didnt have the benefit of 
cover from.
Lloyds also said that a key issue with liability claims was that the cover only comes  in to 
force when liability was established  and no claim had been successfully made against 
Mrs A yet. Lloyds further said that her claim with it wouldnt  have succeeded  in any event 
as it hadnt been notified of the claim straightaway.
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made. I felt the complaint should 
succeed with Lloyds dealing with Mrs As claim,  but I didnt think  it should  reasonably  have 
to pay Mr A compensation.
My provisional findings were:
Ref: DRN40395902Mr As request for compensation
I understand that this has been a difficult time for Mr A. Unfortunately  I need  to explain 
that Mr A is not a complainant  to this service in his own right  he is acting on behalf of his 
mother. Our rules only allow me to make  compensation awards in respect of 
complainants, in relation to the upset theyve been caused by their insurer. Mr A is not a 
policyholder, Lloyds arent his insurer. And the complaint that Mr A has made  is about  
Lloyds decline of his mothers claim.  I appreciate that, in the situation at hand,  it is Mr A 
that has suffered  the upset that has resulted from Lloyds decision to decline the claim.  
But that upset  is not something I can take into account or make  any award in respect of.
It is also not my role to award compensation that seeks  to punish an insurer  or make them  
change their practices. Whilst I note Mr As concern for others, I cant make an award on 
that basis here.
owner v occupier  liability
I understand Lloyds  disagrees with the position  set out by the investigator.  I accept that its 
wording does say that the cover under the buildings policy only applies if the legal liability  
arises out of the policyholders liability as owner  of the property  (not occupier). And there  
is a distinct different in legal terms between the liabilities of the two (owner  v occupier).
However, I suspect that many consumers would be unaware of the legal difference or of 
what consequence that might be to them.  As Lloyds is aware, this is not a new concern for 
this service and some  previous ombudsman findings  are not on Lloyds side. Our 
approach on this matter  dates back 20 years.  A former insurance ombudsman 
summarised his approach  in one of his annual reports, he felt the reality  was that there 
was no relevant and realistic civil liability  which arose purely from ownership of land or 
buildings  which in effect meant restricting the cover provided by buildings policies to 
liabilities incurred purely from ownership  of the property  was flawed. Although  this did not 
affect those consumers who also had contents  insurance, the ombudsman concluded that 
for those  consumers who only had buildings insurance, the fair and reasonable approach 
should be to regard the policy as covering  liabilities  arising as the owner and occupier of 
the property.
Whilst this matter was first decided twenty-years  ago, our approach has not changed 
since. Nothing Ive seen in the Lloyds policy makes me think  it made  the distinction and 
potential ramifications so clear to Mrs A that it would be fair for me to depart from our 
usual approach and find it was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on a simple assessment of 
the policy terms to decline  the claim.
the cause was a contents item
Nothing Ive seen makes  me think our standard approach should not apply here merely 
because the item said to be the root cause of the liability  claim was a contents  item,  rather 
than a part of the buildings. The liability cover doesnt track back  in any way to the cause 
of the issue, the only distinguishing feature is between owner and occupier liability  (which 
Ive dealt with above).
cost of cover
I appreciate that Lloyds  hasnt priced its cover  to include  the risk in discussion.  But as 
Ref: DRN40395903I said this services position on the matter has been established for a long time. Whilst it is 
clear that Lloyds doesnt agree with it, the fact of how it has chosen to offer cover  and the 
price it has charged for it, doesnt change my view on the fair outcome of this complaint.
establishing liability
It is also the case that the cover available here is for Mrs As legal liabilities  for damages  
(and costs  for defence where these have been  authorised by Lloyds).  As yet there has 
only been a claim  made against Mrs A, that claim hasnt been  heard and no findings have 
been made by a judge, so no damages have been awarded. But that doesnt prevent me 
from saying Lloyds should deal with a claim for Mrs A under this section of cover.
Currently, because the claim  under the policy was declined, Mrs A has had no legal 
representation and the court claim for liability has been placed on hold.  The policy only 
agrees to cover defence costs where  such have been authorised and because the claim 
wasnt accepted  none could be authorised. Following my final decision, if it remains  the 
same and Mr A on behalf of Mrs A accepts it, Lloyds  will have  to deal with the claim which  
may involve  authorising defence costs.
Mrs A not notifying Lloyds
The policy does require the policyholder to notify  the insurer as soon as possible. I think  
Mr A, on behalf of Mrs A, did that here. Ive seen that Mrs A has been ill since  2014 and 
once Mr A became  aware that a judgement had been made in default  against her (as she 
didnt attend a hearing), he contacted Lloyds as soon as reasonably possible. So I dont
agree with Lloyds  that Mrs As claim under the legal liabilities section of cover would fail 
as a result  of her not having notified it as soon as possible.
Further, if I were  persuaded that Mrs A had not notified Lloyds as soon  as possible, Id 
have to consider  how that failure  had affected  Lloyds. When  Mr A told Lloyds of the claim, 
Lloyds, straight away declined it. Whilst Mr A objected Lloyds maintained  its position and 
issued a final response to that affect, a little under eight  weeks from the date Mr A notified  
it of the legal proceedings against Mrs A. Lloyds has defended  its position since too. Mr A 
has been able to have court proceedings held whilst Mrs A is without the benefit of a legal 
defence. So the matter  has not been accepted by Mrs A, and the court proceeding have 
not moved on.
Therefore, if I were persuaded that notification to Lloyds had been unreasonably delayed, 
Im not persuaded that Lloyds has suffered any prejudice as a result.
remedy
Im of the view that Lloyds  must  deal with a claim for Mrs A under  the legal liabilities 
section of the buildings cover. This doesnt  mean it will now take over the claim by 
appointing solicitors etc  the policy doesnt offer cover for that. But it is possible that 
Lloyds may choose  to control the claim in that way in the situation at hand  here.  In any 
event Mr A will first have  to liaise with Lloyds to determine what needs  to be done now for 
it to authorise costs for Mrs A to obtain  a legal representative to defend her.
Mr A responded. He asked that I consider  awarding compensation for Mrs A. I explained 
that I hadnt seen  any evidence that Mrs A had suffered any upset. I said:
Ref: DRN40395904Mr A has asked why I havent  awarded any compensation for . the policyholder, Mrs A. 
When the complaint  came  to me for assessment I noted Mr A had asked for compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience he was caused.  None of his correspondence  suggested  
[Mrs A] had suffered distress and inconvenience.  I understand that Mr A, in his role of Power 
of Attorney has handled all the court dates and paperwork   so Mrs A has been shielded  
from any distress  and inconvenience caused  in that respect. In some  instances where a 
policyholder has someone  acting for them, I can understand  that the policyholder isnt 
entirely removed from everything and they still suffer some upset because  they are aware  of 
whats going on (even if they arent  handling that activity themselves). However, I dont think  
that is the case here. I understand  from some detail Mr A has shared with our investigator 
that Mrs A has been very poorly for quite some  time.  I also note that it was 2014  when  Mrs A 
was diagnosed with [her degenerative condition] and that Mr A took on his Power of Attorney 
role to look after her on-going affairs  in 2015. Taking  all this into account Im not persuaded 
that Mrs A has suffered any distress and inconvenience as a result of Lloyds  unfair decline 
of her claim  made in 2018.
Mr A said Mrs A had definitely  been  upset  she had actively  hidden court papers from 
him. He sought to draw analogies  with what might happen were  criminal acts committed 
against Mrs A and/or  if Mrs A committed criminal acts. In short, he didnt think her health 
should prevent  her from being compensated.
Lloyds confirmed it had received my provisional decision, but didnt provide any further 
comment or evidence for me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that following  my provisional decision Mr A felt his mother  should receive 
compensation. Im mindful that he had not asked  for this before  his focus  had been on 
upset he had suffered  and what  Lloyds had put him through. The criminal  offence analogy 
is not helpful  this is not a criminal matter and the rules I work  with dont correlate. As Ive 
explained I can only award compensation where I see that failures by a business have 
caused upset  and inconvenience.
I have no doubt  Mrs A can feel distressed and upset, but I have no way to know  whether 
or not she understands what has happened  between Mr A and Lloyds and is upset  as 
result of that. Im not persuaded, for example, that Mrs A hiding court  papers means that 
she is distressed to see her son having  to deal with the court claim without support from 
her insurer.  She may well be upset or embarrassed  about the court  claim in general  and 
Mr A would always have  had to deal with the claim, even if Lloyds had supported him. 
I appreciate that this is a very difficult  and emotional situation for Mr A, but I cant be 
satisfied, in her personal circumstances,  that any distress suffered by Mrs A has been 
caused by failures  of Lloyds. As such it would  be unfair and unreasonable for me to 
require Lloyds to pay compensation.  
Ive no reason to change  my view provisionally stated. Those findings now form part of 
this, my final decision and I will be requiring Lloyds to deal with Mrs As claim.  
Ref: DRN40395905my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Lloyds Bank  General  Insurance  Limited to deal with 
Mrs As claim for legal  liability  under the cover provided by her buildings  insurance policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A on behalf  
of Mrs A to accept or reject my decision  before 2 November 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4039590