K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that a hire purchase agreement  was mis-sold to him by Nick Whale 
Motorhomes Limited.
background
A nearly  new motor-home  was supplied to Mr W under a hire purchase  agreement with a 
finance provider  that he electronically  signed in November 2017. He says that the dealer 
knew that hed settle the agreement in full in April 2018 when  he received a pay-out  from a 
pension and that the dealer told him that the cost of doing so would be only a few hundred 
pounds. But he says that when he contacted  the finance provider in April 2018  he was told 
that in addition to the amount hed borrowed hed have to pay early  settlement charges of 
about £2,600. He complained to NW Motorhomes but wasnt  satisfied with its response  so 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt  believe that 
Mr W wouldve  agreed to take the loan had he been fully aware of the amount he would pay 
when settling early  as he had funds due in April 2018, was in no rush to buy the motorhome 
and was happy to wait if required. So he recommended that NW Motorhomes should settle 
the interest amount with the finance provider directly  and send a letter to Mr W to confirm 
that it had been done  and that it should also pay Mr W the equivalent of the amount that hes 
been paying in interest  since April 2018.
NW Motorhomes has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  It says,  
in summary, that:
interest is calculated by the finance  provider in line with the requirements  of the 
Consumer Credit  Act 1974  and that its not its decision as to how the interest is 
calculated;
Mr W was fully aware of the interest  implications involved  as he signed  the 
agreement which states that £28,539.60 of interest is payable so any suggestion that 
the interest would  only be a few hundred pounds for a four month period was 
extremely unrealistic;
interest is included  in the monthly instalments and theres always a penalty to pay on 
early settlement which it quotes as being one months interest; 
the total cost of interest was £2,598.70 for the four months that Mr W had borrowed 
£66,000;
Mr W wasnt lied to but was offered a finance  option and he choose to exercise  it but 
he didnt have to proceed with it and he received an explanation of how the finance 
works;
Mr W was very keen  to buy that motorhome and knew that if he waited until April 
2018 it would likely  be sold and that he was also keen to take advantage  of an 
agreed discount from £72,990  to £70,000  that was available at that time;
testimony has been taken from Mr Ws friend  but further testimony  from it hasnt been  
asked for and that its sales manager  is willing to go on record  stating that the 
salesman has never described that a loan of £66,000 would only cost a couple of 
hundred pounds over a four month period; and 
the interest cost of about £2,600 is Mr Ws in full  its his motorhome and he was 
aware that the loan would have a cost (and its unrealistic to suggest that the cost 
would only be a couple of hundred pounds).
my provisional decision
Ref: DRN41412722After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W 
and to NW Motorhomes on 10 December 2019. In my provisional  decision I said as follows:
There doesnt seem  to be any dispute  that Mr W wanted to buy the motor-home, that 
hed have the money available  to him in April 2018 to do so and that the hire 
purchase agreement  was suggested to him by NW Motorhomes.
The hire purchase agreement was for £66,000 repayable  by 120 monthly  payments 
of £787.83 at an interest rate of 7.9%  APR.  But Mr W only needed finance for about 
five months. The account statement shows that he made five monthly  payments  of 
£787.83 between  December 2017  and April 2018  and that he made  two payments of 
£30,000 and a payment of £2,212.17 in April 2018.  Since then hes made monthly 
payments of £22.48 and the outstanding  balance in November  2018 was £2,450.32. 
Mr W says that he contacted the finance  provider for an early settlement quote  in 
April 2018 and he was told that hed have  to pay about £2,600. Hed paid a total of 
£66,151.32 to the finance  provider and it had made  an early settlement adjustment  of 
£25,803.08 which left a balance on the account  of £2,585.20. 
Mr W had received credit of £66,000  for about five months at an interest rate of 7.9%.  
So I consider that he knew,  or ought reasonably to have known, that the monthly 
interest payment  would (in very simple terms)  be at least  £435 (and about £2,175  
over five months). 
But Im not persuaded that it was fair or reasonable in these circumstances for a ten 
year agreement to have been  recommended  to him. And if that was all that was 
available to him I consider that it would  be reasonable to expect  NW Motorhomes to 
have explained  to him in detail why an agreement for ten years was appropriate for 
him and the amount that hed have to pay under the agreement. Ive seen no 
evidence to show that that happened or that it properly explained to him the interest 
that would  be payable under the agreement. So I consider it to be more  likely than 
not that the agreement was mis-sold to Mr W by NW Motorhomes.
The balance of the account  in April 2018 was £2,585.20 and Mr W had repaid 
£151.32 more  than the credit that had been provided to him  so I consider  that he 
was being asked to pay £2,736.52 in total for the benefit of the agreement. I consider 
that it wouldve  been reasonable for him to expect  to pay at least £2,175 in interest 
on the basis of the information that had been provided to him. So I find that it would  
be fair and reasonable in these circumstances  for NW Motorhomes to pay him the 
difference between  £2,736.52 and £2,175 which is £561.52 (with interest since April 
2018). 
Mr W can use that money to partially settle  his account with the finance  provider.  But 
it was his decision not to settle  his account  in full before now. And Im not persuaded 
that it would  now be fair or reasonable for me to require  NW Motorhomes to 
reimburse him for the payments that hes made  to the finance provider since  April 
2018.
So subject to any further representations by Mr W or NW Motorhomes, my provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part.
Ref: DRN41412723Mr W has responded to my provisional decision in detail and says,  in summary, that:
he was hoodwinked, the finances were never discussed with him and he naively 
signed the agreement as he believed  what hed been told;
the salesman  made out that hed only be paying interest on the monthly instalment 
which equates  to a figure of around £62 each month   so it would cost him the 
couple of hundred  pounds  that had been  discussed;
he couldve borrowed the money from his mother or best friend free of charge;  and
another friend whos a motorhome salesman says that he was ripped off.
NW Motorhomes says that when  considering  finance options, the structure  of the agreement  
is guided by the information put forward by the applicant  as to what  they can afford to pay on 
a monthly basis at the time of the purchase, not what  they might  be able to afford in the 
future given  expected events. It says that the effect  on the monthly repayments given 
different terms of the loan were demonstrated to Mr W and he decided  that the ten year term 
suited his current financial situation best. It says that the interest  rate is fixed  by the finance  
provider and stays  consistent irrespective of the length or amount of the loan and its not 
correct to state that the finance package he chose was mis-sold.  
But it says that its mindful  of the fact that this process is taking  up a lot of time and cost for 
all parties involved so will agree to pay Mr W £561.52 (plus interest) in order  to bring this 
matter to a close but that isnt an admission of wrong doing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr W and NW Motorhomes give very different accounts of the discussions that led to Mr W 
entering into the hire purchase agreement. Ive considered the additional information that 
each of them has provided in response to my provisional decision, alongside all of the 
evidence that Ive previously considered. And having done so, Im not persuaded that I 
should change  my provisional  decision. 
 
Mr W had received credit of £66,000  for about five months at an interest rate of 7.9%.  And I 
consider that he shouldve  known  that the monthly interest payment would  (in very simple 
terms) be at least  £435 (and about  £2,175 over five months). And the monthly payment was 
shown in the agreement as being £787.83. But Im not persuaded that it was fair or 
reasonable, when he only needed  the loan for a few months, for a ten year agreement to 
have been recommended  to him.
And for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these  circumstances for NW Motorhomes to refund £561.52 to Mr W (with 
interest since April 2018).
my decision
So my decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part. And I order Nick Whale  
Motorhomes Limited to:
1.Refund £561.52 to Mr W.
Ref: DRN414127242.Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from April 2018 to the 
date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires NW Motorhomes to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above.  NW Motorhomes must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4141272