K820x#14complaint
Mr S took out a Hire Purchase Agreement to buy a car in 2004. At the same  time he bought 
a payment protection insurance policy (PPI). Although another  business sold the PPI, 
Pinnacle Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) has taken responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to 
Pinnacle throughout this decision.
Mr S complains that Pinnacle  mis-sold  him the PPI.
background
In April I issued my provisional decision.  In it I explained why I wasnt minded to uphold  
Mr Ss complaint. A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms part of my final 
decision.
A copy of my decision  was sent to both parties and I asked both to come back to me with 
any further information they wanted  me to consider before I made my final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Pinnacle confirmed  it had received my provisional decision and had nothing further it 
wanted to add. Mr S has told me the following:
He had no redundancy pay from work.
He didnt complete  a direct debit form for the PPI. He made  the payment at a bank 
with a bank book.
He collected  his car in May and filled in the necessary  forms at that time and then 
went away. By the time he returned from holiday the cooling off period had expired.
I want to thank Mr S for clarifying his redundancy pay situation  and for the other points hes 
made. And Im grateful  to both parties for the speed  in which  theyve responded to my 
provisional decision. Ive thought carefully about  what Mr S told me. Im sorry to disappoint  
him but I have still decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
I say this because  even if Mr S didnt  receive  redundancy pay the PPI could have been 
useful if he was unemployed. It would have paid out the monthly benefit if he lost his job 
and it would have  helped him if things  went wrong.
Mr S says he didnt fill in a direct  debit. Ive explained in my provisional decision that the 
examples of the forms Pinnacle has provided are representative of the paperwork he likely 
completed at the time of the sale. So overall  I still think its more likely than not he would  
have known he was choosing to take out the PPI and that he could have declined it if he 
didnt want it even  if he didnt complete  a direct debit. So I cant uphold  this complaint about  
this point.
Finally Mr S says he went away after completing the paperwork and by the time he arrived 
home the cooling off period had expired. But even if hed received better information I still 
Ref: DRN42983242think he would have  taken  out the PPI at the time.  Better information would have only 
shown him he was eligible for the cover and that he likely could  have made a successful 
claim if hed needed  to. And for much  the same reason  as Ive explained why I think  it was 
suitable for Mr S I dont  think Mr S would have  changed his mind  about buying it.
my final decision
For the reason  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42983243COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr S took out a Hire Purchase Agreement to buy a car in 2004. At the same time he bought a 
payment protection  insurance policy  (PPI).  Although another business sold the PPI, Pinnacle 
Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) has taken responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to Pinnacle throughout 
this decision.
Mr S complains that Pinnacle mis-sold  him the PPI.
background
Mr S took out a Hire Purchase Agreement in June 2004. At the same time he bought a PPI policy 
ending 0198. In July 2004  policy  ending 0198 was cancelled and reissued under policy number 
ending 2667. No new sale of PPI took place.
This policy covered Mr S if he was off work sick or if he had an accident.  It also covered him if he lost 
his job.
The policy initially cost £13.13 per month and then £11.75 per month when  it was reissued under 
policy number 2667. The policy benefit was also amended on reissue from £316.15 per month to 
£281.96. If Mr S made a successful claim  it would  have  paid out for up to 12 months at a time.
Our adjudicator first of all told Mr S he didnt think the policy was mis-sold. On receipt  of the first view, 
Mr S responded to say he disagreed. He provided some more information. Our adjudicator  looked  
again at this complaint and in light of the further information hed received, this time he upheld  it. He 
said that as Mr S suffered with a pre-existing medical condition he thought  he wouldnt have been 
able to make  a claim - so he said Mr S had lost out because of what  Pinnacle did wrong. Pinnacle  
disagreed with this view and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman  for a final 
decision. So the complaint  has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but Im not intending  to uphold this complaint.  I will explain why.
Pinnacle doesnt  have all the paperwork from the time of the sale.  This isnt unusual and its not 
surprising either as the policy was sold a long time ago. Businesses  dont have to keep records 
indefinitely. And neither  party can say exactly how this PPI was sold. But where the information  is 
limited I will make my decision based on whats  more likely based on what  the parties  have told me 
together with any available evidence  and what we generally  know about  these types of sale at the 
time.
I will look at this complaint  as if it was a recommended  sale.  Whilst I dont know what  was said to Mr S 
at the time,  this put more responsibility  on the business for how it sold the PPI. And it meant it had to 
take reasonable  steps  to make sure it was suitable as well as giving  Mr S enough clear information  so 
he could decide for himself  whether or not he wanted the policy.
Looking at Mr Ss circumstances,  I cant say the PPI was unsuitable for him.
Ref: DRN42983244I say this as Mr S was eligible for the PPI. Mr S was working so I dont think hed have been affected 
by the limitations and exclusions set out in the policy about unusual employment  circumstances. 
And Ive thought  carefully about what the adjudicator  said in his view about  Mr S having a pre-existing 
medical condition. I accept  that Mr S might have been caught by the terms of the policy in relation to 
pre-existing medical conditions - I dont think its likely Mr S would  have been able to make a claim for 
his pre-existing medical condition.  But Mr S has given  us some information  about  his condition. Hes 
told us he was on medication to control it and that he had occasionally had to take two or three days 
off work.  But taking into account this particular condition, I dont think its likely that Mr S would have 
thought he had to take prolonged periods  off work  such that it meant he would have needed  to make 
a claim on the policy for this particular condition. The policy terms meant that Mr S would have had to 
wait for 30 continuous days before making  a claim. I think its unlikely that he would  have still been off 
work after so long and I dont think its likely hed have  needed to make a claim for his particular 
medical condition. So I dont intend to uphold his complaint for this reason.
Ive next looked at any other  reasons to uphold  this complaint.
Mr S told us he had some sick pay paid at his managers  discretion and he had a redundancy  
package available. Hes also said he had £10,000 in savings at the time.  But this policy would  have 
provided Mr S with cover if he couldnt work  for potentially longer than any sick pay he got and in 
addition to it. And any savings  or redundancy  pay he was entitled to if he lost his job could also have 
been used for other important living  expenses. He didnt  want to use his savings to buy his car so I 
think its likely he might  have wanted  these  savings for other  purposes or to be kept intact.  And 
theres nothing to make me think the PPI was unaffordable. So I think the PPI could still have been 
useful.
Mr S also complained that he was unsure  whether or not he needed the PPI but he was advised  to 
take it out and he also says that he wasnt given  the chance to read and see if it was applicable for 
him as the business was in a hurry to complete the sale. So Ive looked  to see whether Pinnacle gave 
him a choice about buying  the PPI. As the completed application forms from the time arent  available 
Pinnacle has provided some  examples  of the type of form that would have  been used. I think these  
likely represented the forms Mr S saw when he applied for the insurance and the finance.  I think  its 
likely Mr S would have  had to complete a separate application  form for the PPI. And I think  its also 
likely various  options would have been presented to Mr S and he would have had a choice to take or 
leave the PPI. Mr S more  likely also had to fill in a direct debit  for his payments. So overall I think he 
had a choice about buying the insurance and he chose it knowing he could decline it if he didnt want  
it even if its understandable  if he cant remember this after so long.
Its possible that not all the information given to Mr S about the PPI was as clear as it could have 
been. But thats not enough for me to uphold  this complaint. I next need to think if more or better 
information would have changed Mr Ss mind about buying the PPI. I cant  say it would have  done. As 
Ive found I think he chose the policy and for much the same reasons  as I think  it was suitable for him, 
I dont think more or better information would  have  put him off buying  the PPI.
Overall I dont think Mr S lost out because of anything Pinnacle did wrong and I dont intend to uphold 
this complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint.  And I dont intend to direct 
Pinnacle Insurance Plc to do anything to put matters right.  
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 18 
May 2019 after which  I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4298324