K822xcomplaint
Mrs G complains about Legal & General  Insurance  Limiteds (L&G)  response to her claim  
under her building  insurance policy for damage to her kitchen ceiling.
background 
Mrs G said her ceiling collapsed  and was unsafe.  Mrs G had emergency cover which meant 
a roofer came out, but she was only covered for outside work, not inside,  and she said L&G 
wouldnt inspect the damage, saying there was no storm and they wouldn't do anything  else.
L&Gs agents said the damage  was due to the gradual breakdown  of Mrs Gs roof and not 
connected to a one-off event such as a storm, as required by her policy. It said the timbers 
and boards to the roof had started to rot which  showed water ingress over a long period. It 
said that as the damage was due to a gradually operating  cause, it was an uninsured risk. 
L&G offered  Mrs G £75 compensation as she was unhappy with its communications.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said although the 
emergency roofer had mentioned a build-up of snow, this was unconfirmed  and there were  
no weather records of snow build-up around  the time of the claim.  She said L&Gs  surveyor  
had since inspected Mrs Gs roof, but repairs had been made. Its report showed that rot was 
setting in and this is a gradually operating cause of damage and not covered by the policy.  
Mrs G disagreed, saying the emergency roofer had said that a build-up of snow had caused 
the damage. She said she was unhappy with the £75 compensation because L&G refused to 
come out on first notification of the claim, and simply declined the claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at L&Gs decisions and handling of Mrs Gs claim to see if it has acted in 
accordance with the terms  of the policy, and to see if it has treated her fairly.
Mrs Gs policy covers her home for damage caused by a specific insured event and the 
investigator listed these  in her letter of 26 July 2018.  When a policy holder makes a claim the 
onus is on them to show that an insured event caused the damage. If they cant, their claim 
wont succeed. 
Mrs G said there was a build-up of snow before  the damage occurred. The weather reports 
at the time of the claim  dont meet  the definition of a storm.  Even  if there was a snow storm 
this would need to be severe in order to break through  a roof and there is no weather 
information that shows this happened. The lack of evidence of an insured event means that 
Mrs Gs claim cant succeed.
For the sake of completeness, I have also considered what was the most likely cause of the 
damage. L&G said that the surveyors report showed the damage was due to a gradually 
operating cause, in other words, something that developed over time.  I think  this is 
evidenced by the onset  of rot in Mrs Gs timbers.  This is the only expert report  available and 
I think it provides the more likely  explanation, in that some snow had highlighted pre-existing 
maintenance issues with roof and wasnt the main cause of the damage.  
Ref: DRN48119132Gradually operating causes arent  insured and the reason for this is to distinguish an 
insurance policy, dealing  with one-off risks, from a maintenance contract  that keeps a house  
in good working  order.  Insurers  dont want to pay for maintenance that all householders must 
check for from time-to-time, but only for the specific, listed events within the policy. 
I sympathise with Mrs G for her predicament, but we have to be fair to both parties and I 
could only require L&G to meet her claim if it had been incorrectly declined. I havent seen 
any evidence of an insured event that affected  Mrs Gs home, and I think  it was in line with 
the terms of the policy and fair for L&G to decline her claim.
Ive looked at the communications between the parties. L&G acknowledged this could have 
been better,  but said the claim was correctly declined at the first point of contact, but offered 
Mrs G £75 compensation in any event.  I think this is a fair offer in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4811913