K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that a car service he paid for using his credit  card from Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC wasnt completed properly.
 
background
Mr L arranged for a company to collect his car from his home address, carry out a service 
and return it in May 2018. Mr L paid £195.21 using his Tesco credit card. In August 2018 the 
service light illuminated and Mr L asked the company to arrange to collect his car and reset  
the light. The company initially agreed  but the collection did not take place as Mr L wasnt  
available. Mr L raised the matter with Tesco who initially closed the complaint on the basis 
that the company were willing to collect the car. When Mr L tried to arrange  this he was told 
that this would not be possible  and he would need to drive  it to the garage.  Mr L explained 
that this was inconvenient  for him as it would take over an hour and he had specifically paid 
for a service  that included the collection and delivery  of his car. Tesco re-opened Mr Ls 
complaint but it was rejected on the basis that the third party  had agreed  to cover Mr Ls 
petrol costs  up to £10 and suggested  he take it to a garage closer to him to carry out the re-
setting of the service  light. Tesco thought this was reasonable  but it did credit Mr Ls account  
with £25 to reflect the delay in re-opening the complaint. Mr L wasnt happy  with this and 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and thought that Tesco hadnt acted fairly. He 
thought that it wasnt reasonable for the servicing  light to have come  on so soon after the 
service if the service had been done properly.  He thought that Tesco had been wrong to 
reject Mr Ls complaint. He recommended that Tesco pay Mr L a further  £100  in addition to 
the £25 already credited  to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Tesco didnt  agree with the investigators view and said that there had been no loss to Mr L. 
It said that it had dealt with Mr L fairly and he should have taken his car to another garage  to 
have the service light reset. It said it was unfair that Mr L was effectively profiting from the 
situation instead of putting right any actual loss.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved it has been passed to me to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator for much the same reasons.
In certain circumstances Section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act gives  a consumer an equal  
right to claim  a refund against  the supplier of goods  or services or the provider of credit  if 
there has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. My role is to 
assess whether Tesco  has handled  Mr Ls s75 claim fairly and reasonably. 
Mr L paid for his car to be collected, serviced  and delivered back  to him in May 2018. In 
August 2018 when  the service light came  on I think it was reasonable to conclude that the 
service light hadnt  been  properly re-set.  Mr L explains that the service was done ahead  of 
the due date and I have  no reason to doubt  what he says. It is unlikely that the car would 
need another service so soon. Mr L had his car looked at by the main  dealership  in 
Ref: DRN45849552November 2018  who confirmed that as the light was still on it was likely that it was not re-set  
following the service.  I have seen an email  to confirm this which  was also forwarded  to 
Tesco in support of Mr Ls claim. Overall, I think it is likely that the service wasnt carried out 
properly as I would expect the service  light to be reset as part of a service.
It seems  that Mr L tried to resolve the situation  with the servicing  company  as they are the 
only ones who can verify that a service was carried out and properly  reset the light.  Despite 
his best efforts (and some  attempt by Tesco to intervene) the company were not willing to 
collect Mr Ls car, reset the light and return it. I dont consider it was unreasonable of Mr L 
not to make  the drive of over an hour and to wait whilst the work was carried out. I think that 
the third party  should  have offered to put things right for Mr L at no cost or inconvenience 
and it should have agreed to collect the car, reset the light and return it as this was part of 
the service Mr L originally paid for.
So I think Tesco was wrong  to reject Mr Ls s75 claim on the basis that the solution put 
forward by the servicing company was fair and reasonable.
I have looked  though  the business file for this complaint and I can see that there were 
several delays and Mr L had to chase Tesco for a response on more  than one occasion. As 
a result of the rejection of the claim and the time that has passed Mr Ls car has had another  
service and the light has been  correctly  reset. So it isnt possible for the light to now be reset 
at no cost to Mr L.
I consider that the time that Mr L has spent in dealing  with this matter  with Tesco and the 
fact that he has had his service light on for over a year has caused  Mr L inconvenience. I 
agree with the investigator that Tesco should pay Mr L a further £100 in addition  to the £25 it 
had already paid to reflect the business handling  of Mr Ls s75 complaint.  
   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to pay 
Mr L a further £100. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to 
ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4584955