K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs M. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2001 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs M was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  FICL didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. This is because the policy didnt cover you if you 
had certain medical  conditions at the start of the policy. Mrs M did suffer  from a medical 
condition. It was treated  with medication  but, because  of the kind of condition it was, I dont 
think medication would have definitely prevented Mrs M taking time off work. If this restriction  
in the policy  had been drawn to Mrs Ms attention properly, I dont think  shed have thought it 
worth taking the PPI. 
As a result I think Mrs M has lost out from the shortcomings in the sales  process. 
fair compensation
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put Mrs M in the financial position shed be in 
now if she hadnt taken  out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs M would have owed when she closed her credit 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs M owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs M would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
Ref: DRN47639172The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs M would have owed each  month without PPI  
Mrs M paid more than enough to clear her balance,  FICL should also pay simple  interest  
on the extra Mrs M paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when 
Mrs M wouldve owed FICL something  on her credit. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs M what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs M that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. I require Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4763917