K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Capital One records  show he bought  the PPI in 2004 over the internet with a new credit 
card. 
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. But Mr P has already  been  offered some money back for the 
commission Capital One received from selling  him the PPI. Mr P still thinks  he was mis-sold 
the PPI in the first place and so his complaint has been passed  to me for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
Weve been asked to look at a number of very similar PPI sales  in relation to Capital One 
and as a result of this weve  obtained a lot of information about  how it normally  sold PPI 
over the internet. It isnt unusual that we dont have access  to Mr Ps original paperwork 
after such  a long time, but we asked to see screen shots of the web-based  form that Mr P 
would have used  when completing his application back in 2004. Ive looked  at these images 
and they correspond with the many others that Ive seen. 
I think when he was completing his on-line application, Mr P would have been given two 
choices in relation  to the PPI. I think he would  have had to make a choice  before  being 
allowed to progress to the next stage of the form. Consumers were usually given two 
options - one choosing to buy PPI, the other choosing not to.
Theres no dispute PPI was actually sold, so I believe Mr P selected the yes option for the 
PPI to be added and I therefore think it is much  more likely that he made an active  selection 
to buy the policy.
So I think the evidence  shows  its more likely  Mr P asked for the PPI policy to be added.
This was an internet application and so I think Mr P wouldve made  his way through the on-
line process without  any advice from Capital One. But Capital One still needed to provide  
information that was clear,  fair and not misleading so Mr P could make an informed choice  
about whether  or not to go ahead and buy the PPI.
I note that before making the on-line selection, the application web-page  contained brief 
details about the cost of the cover. I also think there was a link to view the policys  terms 
and conditions. I acknowledge that Capital One (Europe) plc couldve possibly provided 
Ref: DRN48369602more information  at the point of sale, but I dont think this would have changed anything Mr P 
actually did.
This is because Ive looked at Mr Ps situation.  I think he was eligible for the cover and not 
caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  
He told us that he was entitled to sickness cover and some  other  benefits  through his job. 
Ive thought carefully about these things  but this was a non-advised sale so the choice about 
having PPI was for Mr P to make. The PPI would  have  paid out 10% of his outstanding credit 
card balance for up to a year if hed needed to claim and this would have been in addition  to 
any other means he had at that time. I also think the cost of the cover was affordable for 
Mr P. So I think  this policy was of use.
Capital One has already  offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because 
when the policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium).  It should  have told him about that. Because it didnt, 
that was unfair.  
To put that right, Capital One has said it will pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Capital One (Europe) plc has already offered to pay him for the commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4836960