K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Europaische  Reiseversicherung  AG (ERV) turned down their 
cancellation claim under their travel insurance  policy.
background 
The background  to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision, which  forms part of 
this final decision.  In my provisional decision I said that I intended to uphold this complaint, 
and I include an extract here:
In December 2016 Mr and Mrs N booked a holiday for the following May 2017. They  took out 
single trip travel insurance on the same  day. The insurer is ERV. 
On 17 May 2017, three days before they were  due to go on holiday, Mr and Mrs Ns 
daughter-in-law Ms M was admitted to hospital  suffering from acute  sepsis.  Mr and Mrs N 
cancelled their holiday. Very sadly Ms M died a few days later.  
In mid-June 2017 Mr and Mrs N made  a claim to ERV for £1,000,  which was the maximum 
cancellation cover  under their policy (£500 per person). ERV asked for Ms Ms doctor to 
complete a medical certificate.
Mr and Mrs N sent ERV Ms Ms doctors  report at the end of August 2017.  In mid-September 
2017 ERV declined the claim. It said Ms Ms illness was directly or indirectly  related to a 
pre-existing medical condition shed had at the time the insurance was taken  out. Under its 
policy terms it said this meant Mr and Mrs Ns claim wasnt  covered. 
Mr and Mrs N didnt agree. They made  two main arguments. First, that ERV hadnt 
established a causal link between Ms Ms pre-existing illness and her death. Second,  that 
ERV hadnt applied its policy terms fairly.  In saying this, they referred to this services 
publications and earlier decisions  on this issue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. In her view, ERV had been  entitled  to decline 
the claim on the basis that Ms Ms pre-existing medical condition was indirectly related to her 
death. 
Mr and Mrs N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans review. They also said theyd like 
to see any representations from ERV so they could respond.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
ERV hasnt made any representations  to us other than those Mr and Mrs N have already 
seen. ERVs file consisted of: the claim form, with supporting information including  the death  
certificate; Ms Ms doctors report; the policy schedule, summary  and terms and conditions;  
and ERVs exchange of correspondence  with Mr and Mrs N about the claim and complaint. 
The starting point  is the policys  terms and conditions. Under  Important limitations 
Cancellation, Curtailment  & Trip Interruption cover it says:
Ref: DRN48491862This policy will NOT  cover any claims under Section 1 (Cancellation)arising 
directly or indirectly from any pre-existing  medical condition known to you 
[Mr and Mrs N] prior to the commencement  of the period  of cover affecting any 
close relative or travelling companion not insured under this policy.
The words  in bold are defined in the policy. As I understand it theres  also no dispute  that 
Mr and Mrs N knew that Ms M had a medical condition - a bowel  condition  - before they took 
out the insurance policy. And I understand theres  no dispute the bowel condition was a 
pre-existing medical condition as defined in the policy: 
 
Any past or current medical condition that has given  rise to symptoms, or for which  
any form of treatment, or prescribed medication, medical consultation, investigation,  
or follow up/check-up has been required,  or received, during the 2 years prior to the 
commencement of cover under this policy  and/or prior to any trip.
ERV is relying on the pre-existing  medical condition exclusion  to turn down Mr and Mrs Ns 
claim, and it must show that the exclusion  applies.  But even if I accept ERVs case  that it 
was entitled to rely on the exclusion to reject  the complaint, I still intend to uphold it. 
This is because I can step outside the strict  policy terms and conditions where I consider it is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  to do so. And I think it is fair to do so in the 
specific circumstances of this case, so I intend  to uphold the complaint. Ill explain my 
reasons.
Ms Ms doctor has given  ERV a medical report that shed had the bowel condition for 
decades, and no terminal prognosis had been given. The doctor said shed been  treated for 
pouchitis/bladder infection in early May 2017. She was then treated with antibiotics,  with an 
intention to review her in August 2017. The doctor  said that Ms Ms acute admission on 
17 May 2017 with abdominal pain and likely  sepsis was entirely  unexpected and 
unanticipated. The doctor  said the hospital admission was indirectly related to the bowel 
condition in an entirely unanticipated way.
So the evidence  is that at the time Mr and Mrs N booked the policy and paid for the holiday 
they couldnt reasonably have anticipated  either Ms Ms acute illness or her sudden death. 
They knew  Ms M had a medical  condition, but they couldnt have known that she might 
suddenly die from it. Its entirely  understandable they cancelled  their holiday when she 
became suddenly became very ill. 
In all the circumstances, I consider the only fair and reasonable  outcome is for ERV to pay 
Mr and Mrs Ns cancellation claim, subject to the policy limit and any applicable excess.  It 
must add interest  to the claim payment at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date of 
claim until the date it pays Mr and Mrs N.
For completeness, I have considered the detailed  arguments Mr and Mrs N have raised  
about causation, and the relevant case law. But as I intend to uphold this complaint on a fair 
and reasonable basis  I dont need  to make  a finding on the technical legal point of 
causation.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs N thanked  me for my detailed decision,  and confirmed  they didnt have any extra 
information or comments to add to that already given.
Ref: DRN48491863ERV responded  to accept my provisional  findings. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been given  any additional information or comments to consider. So I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional findings, which  I confirm here for the reasons set out in full 
above. I uphold  this complaint and I order ERV to pay Mr and Mrs Ns claim, subject to the 
policy limit and any applicable excess,  together  with 8% simple  interest  as set out below. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Within 28 days  of the date on which  we tell it Mr and Mrs N accept 
this final decision I order Europaische Reiseversicherung AG to pay their cancellation  claim,  
subject to the policy limit and any applicable excess.  ERV must add interest  to the claim  
payment at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date of settlement to the date it pays  
Mr and Mrs N.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Europaische Reiseversicherung AG considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr and Mrs N how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs N a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4849186