K820x#14Complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Ageas Insurance Limited has accepted liability for a claim under his 
policy.
Background
Mr M has a car insurance policy with Ageas. In April 2019, Mr Ms wife, who is a named 
driver on the policy, was involved  in a road traffic accident. Mrs M called the police and 
swapped insurance  details, but the third party said he wasnt interested  in making a claim 
and continued  on his journey. Mr M didnt notify  Ageas of the incident.
A few weeks  later, Ageas  contacted Mr M as it received a claim from the third partys insurer.  
The third party explained the situation and said that as he was the established vehicle on the 
road he felt that Ageas  should  accept liability. He made a claim  for his vehicle and personal 
injury. Ageas  told Mr M that it would need to speak to Mrs M before it would accept liability,  
but it did say it sounded  like Mrs M may have been  at fault.
After several attempts, Ageas spoke to Mrs M a few days later and asked her some  
questions. Mrs M confirmed that she was joining the road from a side road, and that the third 
party was the established vehicle on the road.  She explained she hadnt  finished her 
manoeuvre before the third party hit the passenger  side of the car. Because  of this, Ageas 
felt it couldnt  defend  this in court, so accepted liability.
Mr M complained. He explained that he didnt want to claim under his insurance so didnt 
report the incident. He also explained that he felt the third party  had lied about the injuries 
and damage on his vehicle. So he didnt think Ageas had acted reasonably.
Our investigator didnt  feel the complaint should be upheld. He explained that Ageas 
reached its findings on liability using evidence submitted from the third party including  an 
independent engineers report. He explained that it wasnt  the role of this service  to 
determine who is at fault for an accident, but to see whether the insurer had reached its 
decision fairly. And he felt that Ageas had acted fairly.
Mr M disagreed. To summarise, he felt that Ageas had pre-judged the decision to accept 
liability before speaking to Mrs M. And he requested evidence on a number of occasions 
about the third party, and the damage  caused, but was told he couldnt have this evidence. 
He feels that this shows the decision  has been made unfairly.  He asked for an ombudsman  
to reach  a decision so the complaint has been  passed to me.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
When Mrs M had her collision she, or Mr M as the policy holder, had a duty to report  this to 
Ageas. Even if Mr M didnt want to make a claim,  his policy requires him to notify Ageas. 
This is to enable Ageas to establish  what happened, so if any claim was made by a third 
party, it would be able to respond.  However,  Mr M didnt report  this incident to Ageas. Ageas 
was notified when the third party decided to make a claim for his losses.
Ref: DRN40016802It isnt this services role to decide who was at fault when looking at insurance  claims. That is 
a decision better dealt with by court.  Ive considered  whether  Ageas acted fairly in deciding 
to accept liability in this case,  and I think that it has.
The terms of Mr Ms policy say:
In dealing  with your claim, under the terms of this policy we may
a)Defend or settle any claim  and choose the solicitor who will act for you in any 
legal action
This means  that when a claim has been  made,  it is for Ageas  to decide how to settle or 
defend the claim. In this case, it decided to settle  the claim as it felt Mrs M was at fault. 
When it determined this, it relied upon  an engineers report, the circumstances submitted by 
the third party  and conversations it had with both Mr M and Mrs M. This is what  Id expect it 
to do. Ive seen  the evidence it relied upon  and I think it reached its decision fairly.
Mr M has said that Ageas pre-judged its decision.  But I cant  see any evidence  that it did 
this. It received the claim from the third party, which  included evidence of damage  and the 
costs of this. When it spoke to Mrs M it asked  her the relevant questions  to determine that 
she was likely liable for the collision, as she was the party  pulling out from a side road and 
joining the road that the third party was already  established on. So whilst  there  appears to 
have been some confusion about which date Ageas made its decision,  I think its likely it had 
enough evidence  after it had spoken to Mrs M to reach its decision. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that Ageas acted unreasonably in making its decision to settle  the claim.
I have taken account of what Mr M has said about  asking  for the evidence,  but I agree with 
our investigator that the evidence he is asking for contains the third partys  details. It doesnt 
contain any information about  Mr M. For data protection reasons we wont be disclosing this 
information to Mr M. But I have seen the evidence, and Im confident that Ageas has 
reached its decision fairly. So I wont be asking for it to do anything further.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4001680