K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the service he received from Santander UK Plc when  he tried to set 
up its voice recognition  service.
background
On the 2 May 2018 Mr D called Santander with an enquiry about his credit card. Whilst he 
was on hold he heard  an automated message which told him that he could set up voice 
recognition to access his account more quickly and efficiently over the telephone. 
Mr D asked Santanders advisor about  this, but he was initially  told hed need to call back 
and select a different  telephone option  to set this up. It was then established that the advisor  
could connect  him to the automated system to enable him to do this. However when his call 
was transferred it was answered by a second advisor, and then disconnected. 
Mr D says he called Santander back and selected the option the first advisor had said would  
take him through to set up voice recognition, but these instructions werent correct.
He raised a complaint with Santander  about the incorrect advice he was given and the poor 
service hed received.  But when he called  its complaints department about this the following 
week he was told his complaint had been  rejected - despite the fact he hadnt  been sent a 
written response as hed requested.
Mr D wasnt happy about this, so he brought his complaint to our service. To put things right,  
hed like Santander to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Santander said it had sent Mr D a letter in response to his complaint on the 3 May 2019. It 
provided us with a copy of this letter which advised that it had investigated  the call hed 
made to it on 2 May 2019  and couldnt  identify any poor service being provided. It also 
confirmed how Mr D could set up voice recognition.
Our investigator listened to the call Mr D made  to Santander on 2 May 2018  and felt that 
there had been  a genuine misunderstanding  between Mr D and Santanders advisor that had 
prolonged the call. But she said the advisor had tried to help him, and had quickly  resolved 
the situation when they realised what Mr D was asking them  to do. The investigator 
acknowledged it was inconvenient that Mr Ds call had then been disconnected,  but said 
there wasnt anything  to show this was Santanders error. And she felt it had dealt with his 
complaint fairly.
Mr D didnt agree with this view.  He doesnt  feel our investigator addressed his concerns 
about poor customer service, and says that regardless of the advisors perceived willingness 
to help, he was misadvised,  which  wasted  his time and caused him distress.  He also 
reiterated that he wasnt the one who terminated  the call with Santander.  So the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN44779472I appreciate Mr D feels very strongly  about what happened. But in order for me to uphold a 
complaint, Id normally need  to find that Santander  had made  an error, or treated him unfairly 
in some way. And I havent reached that conclusion here. So Im not going to ask Santander 
to pay him any compensation. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the call Mr D had with Santander,  and I dont feel that the service  the advisor 
provided to him was poor.  I can hear that they dealt with Mr Ds initial query. And Mr D then 
asked if he could set up voice  recognition.  The advisor said that they couldnt do this for him, 
but that he should have  been given an option to set this up when hed dialed  Santander.  
Mr D said that there hadnt been an option for this. At which  point the advisor  explained that 
they werent familiar with the request  and asked him to hold for a moment.  I appreciate this 
might have been a bit frustrating for Mr D, but I dont think its reasonable to expect the 
advisor to know the answer to every  query  a customer might  have. And when they returned 
to the call, they were able to let Mr D know that to set up voice  recognition  hed need  to 
select option 1 when he rang the main telephone line. 
At this point there  appears  to have been a misunderstanding  between Mr D and the advisor. 
The advisor initially thought Mr D was asking if they could personally take him through  the 
voice recognition  process  and set this up for him. Which they werent able to do. But when 
they realised that Mr D was actually  asking if they could transfer  him to the correct telephone 
option for him to set up voice  recognition, rather than him having to call back, they explained 
theyd misunderstood  his request and said that they could do this for him.
I understand why Mr D was frustrated  by this conversation. But misunderstandings like this 
can arise,  and I dont think that in this particular case it was the fault of either party.  So I 
dont feel it would be fair for me to ask Santander to compensate Mr D for what happened.
I understand it was frustrating for him that his call was then cut-off after hed been 
transferred. And I appreciate he didnt choose to end the call. But I cant  be certain what  
went wrong here. And, like our investigator, I dont think that based on the evidence  
available I can fairly conclude that this was caused  by a Santander error.
Mr D says that when he called Santander back he didnt hear an option that would enable 
him to set up voice recognition. And again,  I realise this must have been frustrating. But I 
can see Santander explained in its response to his complaint how he can set this up. And 
these instructions are the same as those the advisor gave to Mr D over the telephone. So 
again Im afraid I dont  agree  he was misadvised on the call. 
Mr D is unhappy that he didnt receive  a letter from Santander in response  to his complaint. 
But its shown us a copy of a letter it sent dated 3 May 2019. And although Mr D didnt 
receive it, I think  its more likely than not that it was sent by Santander.  So I cant fairly  hold it 
responsible for this.
Mr D has also told us that he was verbally given the outcome of his complaint over the 
phone on the 9 May 2019. And that he was advised on this call that he had the option to 
bring it to our service  if he wasnt  happy with Santanders response. So Im satisfied that he 
did receive its view of his complaint, and advice as to how he could pursue it further.
Ref: DRN44779473my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4477947