K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund withdrawals from his current 
account which he says he didnt make.
background
On 21 January 2018, Mr A opened a current account with Nationwide.  Mr A used  his 
account regularly  for daily spending.  The daily ATM withdrawal limit on the account  was 
£500.
On 7 March 2018,  £1,560 was paid into Mr As account. Mr A says this was a gift from his 
brother following the sale of a car. 
On 14 March 2018, Mr A says whist he was out with friends he lost his wallet which  
contained his Nationwide  bank card and PIN. Mr A says he realised  his wallet  was missing 
from his back pocket  when he went to pay for something in town.
Mr A rang Nationwide on 14 March 2018  and reported his card lost. Mr A asked Nationwide  
for a new card and PIN. Nationwide blocked Mr As lost card so if anyone found  the card it 
wouldnt be able to be used. And it sent out a new bank card on 14 March  2018. During the 
call Mr A asked  for a new PIN to be issued as he couldnt remember his original PIN. 
Nationwide told Mr A that hed receive his new card and PIN within about five days.
Nationwide sent out a new PIN on 16 March 2018.  The new bank card and PIN were sent to 
Mr As home address, by Royal Mail in plain  envelopes.
On 21 March 2018 at 23:13, Mr As new card and PIN were used at an ATM to withdraw 
£500. On 22 March 2018 at 00:01  the card was used again at another  ATM to withdraw 
£500. 
On 23 March 2018, Mr A contacted Nationwide to let it know  he hadnt received his 
replacement bank card or PIN. Mr A told Nationwide  he hadnt  made  the withdrawals and 
asked Nationwide  to refund him the £1,000  which was withdrawn from his account.  Mr A 
thinks Nationwide should be responsible  for someone else taking his money  because  it was 
aware hed lost his card and PIN. And hed never previously withdrawn the full ATM 
withdrawal limit of £500.
Ref: DRN43978092information taken  from Nationwides  electronic audits
The following  timeline for what happened  between  21 January 2018  and 23 March 2018  has 
been compiled  using the transaction history for Mr As account and contact with Nationwide:
Date 2018 Time Place/location Notes Amount (£)
21 Jan 16:42 Online Account application.  
22 Jan First card ending  5100  and PIN 
despatched to Mr A
30 Jan - 6 
MarVarious Various Undisputed credits, debits, 
contactless and ATM withdrawals
7 Mar Albion Street Cash paid into Mr As account £980
Albion Street Cash paid into Mr As account £580
8 Mar ATM Link Cash withdrawal - Genuine -£50
9 Mar Lyceum service 
station, LeedsContactless - Genuine -£10.02
11 Mar ATM Link Cash withdrawal - Genuine -£50.00
ATM Notemachine Ltd
Cash withdrawal - Genuine -£10.00
ATM Bank of 
IrelandCash withdrawal - Genuine -£10.00
ATM Notemachine Ltd
Cash withdrawal - Genuine -£110.00
14 Mar 15:55 ATM Link Cash withdrawal - Genuine -£10
16:05 Mr A called 
Nationwide to 
report lost wallet 
containing card 
and PIN.Card ending 5100 stopped and 
replacement requested along  with 
a new PIN.
No further attempts were  made to 
use this card after it had been 
stopped.
Replacement card
Card ending 5209 despatched 
using Royal  Mail to Mr As home  
address
16 Mar New PIN PIN despatched using  Royal Mail 
to Mr As home  address.
Ref: DRN4397809321 Mar 23:13 ATM Nationwide, Stockport.
Chip and PIN using card ending 
5209.
Balance enquiry   declined, 
incorrect PIN.
23:13 ATM Nationwide, Stockport.
Balance enquiry   approved, 
correct PIN.
23:13 ATM Nationwide, Stockport.
Withdrawal - Disputed -£500
22 Mar 0:01 ATM Nationwide, Rochdale.
Balance enquiry  and withdrawal  
Disputed.
About 35 miles from Mr As home 
address.-£500
23:36 ATM Nationwide, 
986 Leeds 
Road.Balance enquiry  and withdrawal  
Declined as £500  ATM limit for 
day met.
 -£300 declined 
23:37 Balance enquiry  and withdrawal  
Declined. £500 limit met.-£10 declined
23:37 Withdrawal  Declined.  £500 limit 
met-£10 declined
23 Mar Mr A called 
NationwideMr A called Nationwide to report 
he hadnt received  his card and 
PIN.
12:24 Call with 
Financial Crime 
Team, Nationwide. Mr A was informed his claim for 
£1,000 was declined. 
14:11 Mr A went  into a 
branchWithdrawal of remaining  funds 
and account closed.-£310.37
Ref: DRN43978094information from Mr A.
Mr A says he lost his bank card and PIN. He says he didnt receive his new bank card and 
PIN, which was used to make the two £500 withdrawals. Mr A says he has trouble 
remembering his PIN which was why he normally keeps it in his wallet  with his bank card.  
Mr A has told us that he lives with his family and believes  that his post was intercepted.  So it 
wouldve been easy for somebody else to use his bank card and account. Mr A says he has 
had post go missing previously. 
Mr A says he didnt make  the withdrawals and the last time he used his bank card was on 
14 March 2018  at 15:55 when he withdrew £10 from a cash machine. Mr A wants  
Nationwide to refund him the £1,000 which was taken from his account. 
Nationwides response to the complaint
Mr A complained about Nationwides decision to decline  his claim. Nationwide  explained  that 
it wouldnt be refunding  the transactions because:
Mr As new bank  card was sent to Mr As home address;
Mr As new bank  card and PIN were sent separately by Royal Mail and its unlikely 
both the card and PIN were intercepted;
Mr A doesnt live in a high risk post code area;
both transactions  were made  using the genuine card and the correct PIN;
the activity commenced  on 21st March at 23:13   but the bank card would have  been
delivered by Royal Mail in the day, if a third party had obtained the card they would 
have wanted to use them straight  away, not leaving it until 11pm;
the gaps in the attempted transactions are also not indicative of fraud,  when the ATM 
transaction on 22/3/2018 at 00:01:54 is successful the next attempt on the card is not 
until the following  night at 23:36, almost  24 hours  later and 
there were no contactless or point of sale transactions to maximise use of the funds 
in the account.
Nationwide declined Mr As claim on the basis that he either  performed or authorised  the 
transactions himself.
investigators view
Our investigator didnt  think the evidence supported Mr As version of events and, on 
balance, she thought the disputed transactions had been authorised by Mr A. She said:
Nationwide had sent out Mr A s new bank card and PIN separately;
its unlikely that both Mr As new bank  card and PIN were intercepted by someone  
unknown;
she thought  it more likely Mr A or someone at Mr As home had been aware both 
items had been delivered;
the genuine card and PIN had been used to make the transactions;
the pattern  of the disputed transactions didnt  fit with what  a fraudster might do and 
although the ATMs used to make the disputed transactions were  about 35 miles 
from Mr As address this didnt indicate  Mr A wasnt aware of the transactions;
Ref: DRN43978095the transfer of £1,560 into Mr As Halifax account  on 7 March  2018 was important, as 
it is unusual for an account  to be opened for a short time, have a large  cash  deposit, 
then both the new card and PIN to be intercepted and used to remove funds  from the 
account and
Mr As family share and store personal  and confidential information.
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at everything. He insisted that he 
hadnt made the withdrawals. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant time.
With that in mind I shall start by setting out what I have identified  as the relevant 
considerations to deciding  what is fair and reasonable  in this case.
relevant considerations
The regulations relevant  to this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). The particular provisions Ive taken  into account in this case  are as follows:
Consent  and withdrawal of consent
67.(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded  as having been  authorised  by the 
payer for the purposes of this Part only if the payer  has given its consent  to
(a) the execution  of the payment transaction; 
Evidence  on authentication and execution of payment  transactions
75.(1)  Where a payment service  user
(a)denies having authorised an executed  payment transaction; or
(b)claims that a payment  transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service provider  to prove  that the payment transaction was 
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment  service  providers 
accounts and not affected by a technical breakdown or some other deficiency.
(2) In paragraph  (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure  by which  a 
payment service provider  is able to verify  the use of a specific payment instrument, 
including its personalised security features.
Ref: DRN43978096(3) Where a payment  service user denies  having authorised an executed payment 
transaction, the use of a payment instrument recorded by the payment service 
provider is not in itself necessarily sufficient to prove either that
(a) the payment  transaction  was authorised by the payer; 
Taking all the relevant  considerations  into account,  including those set out above, my 
consideration about whats fair and reasonable in this case must first address whether the 
disputed transactions  were authorised  by Mr A.
were the disputed transactions authorised by Mr A?
A number  of possible explanations for how the disputed withdrawals came  to be made  have 
been put forward. The first is that someone unknown to Mr A made the transactions.  The 
second explanation is that Mr A made the withdrawals himself,  or authorised  a third party to 
make them.
Ive considered which I think is the most  likely taking into account  Nationwides records and 
Mr As description of events. But I acknowledge that I cannot  know for sure what occurred; 
its a decision I must  make on the balance of evidence. Having done  so I think  its more  likely 
than not that Mr A either  made the withdrawals  himself, or authorised  a third party to make 
them. Ill explain why.
Mr A says he opened his Nationwide  account  so that he could have his wages paid into it 
once hed secured  a job and used the account  regularly for living  expenses. From looking at 
Mr As account activity, I can see that the transactions on the account are mostly ATM 
withdrawals or contactless  payments. Mr A has told us that he had never  withdrawn the full 
ATM withdrawal limit of £500. So he says this shows he wasnt  responsible for the two 
disputed transactions.  But Mr As statements  show on that on at least  one occasion  on 
3 February 2018,  the full £500  limit was withdrawn, albeit in two transactions  of £200  and 
£300. 
Mr As account statements also show that on 7 March 2018, £1,560 cash was paid into 
the account. From looking at Mr As account  activity,  this seems an unusually high amount. I 
say this because  Mr A said he wasnt working and the most Mr A had credited to his account 
in one instance prior to this date was £500 on 30 January 2018 and £500 on 1 February 
2018. Both these  transactions  were  bank transfers not cash  deposits.  
Mr A has told us that the £1,560 was a gift from his brother who had sold a car. And that 
might be the case.  But, on balance, I think the timing of this deposit in relation to the 
disputed withdrawals is important. And Im not satisfied that this deposit  was a coincidence. I 
say this because  I think its unusual for an account to be opened for a short time, a larger 
than normal cash deposit to be paid into the account. And for Mr A to then lose his bank 
card. Then not receive his new bank card and PIN, which  were  delivered separately to his 
home address. I also havent seen any evidence to show someone other than Mr A or his 
brother was aware he had this large  sum of money  in his account.
Nationwides records show that Mr A reported  his bank  card and PIN as lost on 14 March 
2018. So it seems  likely  that Mr A carried out all of the transactions  prior to this date. Ive 
also kept in mind that Mr A hasnt disputed these  transactions. And has said that the last 
Ref: DRN43978097genuine transaction he made was a £10 ATM withdrawal at 15:55 on 14 March  2018. As 
soon as Mr A reported his card as lost, Nationwide  blocked the card. So it wouldnt have 
been able to have been used by anyone  including Mr A.
Nationwide has provided evidence to show that a new bank card was sent to Mr As home  
address on 14 March 2018.  And that a new PIN was sent two days later on 16 March 2018, 
again to Mr As home address.  As part of Nationwides security measures they were sent out 
separately and in plain unmarked  white envelopes. Nationwide  has also confirmed that it 
used Royal  Mail to send  out Mr As new card and PIN as it says Mr A didnt live in a high risk 
area, which meant it wasnt aware of any issues with post going missing and not arriving.
When Mr A reported his card as lost, Nationwide told Mr A that hed receive his new card 
and PIN within  5 working days. So from looking at the timeline here, Mr A should  have  
expected to receive everything by 21 March  2018,  at the latest.  But he didnt call Nationwide 
until 23 March 2018, after the disputed transactions were made, which  was 9 days  after 
reporting his card lost. Again I find the timings of Mr As actions significant. I say this 
because if Mr A hadnt received his card I wouldve  expected him to contact Nationwide 
sooner than he did. Especially if he wasnt able to access his account for everyday  living  
expenses as it appears was normal for him.
Mr A has suggested that someone else must have intercepted his post.  And then went onto 
make the disputed transactions. But I dont find this explanation plausible.  I say this because 
for someone  else to be responsible they wouldve needed to be aware of where Mr A lived, 
had access to his home  or letter box, known  Mr A had reported his card and PIN lost, and 
had ordered new ones. The individual wouldve then needed to monitor Mr As post for a 
number of days, identify the bank card and take it. The same person wouldve then had to 
wait for Nationwide to send out Mr As PIN. And intercept that too. 
Ive also kept in mind  that the disputed  activity commenced on 21st March at 23:13 and that 
the new bank  card and PIN wouldve most  likely been delivered by Royal  Mail sometime 
during the day. If an unknown third party had obtained the card and PIN I think it reasonable 
they would  want  to use them straight  away, not leaving  it until nearly midnight to do so, 
which increased the risk of discovery.
The gap in the attempted transactions is also not indicative of fraud. I say this because when 
the ATM transaction on 22 March 2018  just after midnight is successful the next attempt on 
the card is not until the following night at 23:36,  almost 24 hours later. So when I weigh 
everything up, I think its unlikely that someone  unknown to Mr A intercepted  his post as hes 
said. For the reasons  Ive explained, I think its more likely  that either Mr A or someone at 
Mr As address took possession of the new card and PIN. 
Whilst I accept  its possible that someone close to Mr A or living  at his address is responsible 
for the transactions.  I also think Mr A wouldve been  aware and consented to this. I say this 
because from the information Mr A has provided to us, I can see that Mr As family share 
and store personal and confidential  information.  For example Mr A has access  to his 
brothers email account and Mr A stored  his bank  card details on his mobile phone. So 
based on this I think its likely Mr A shared other  information including  his account  details. 
And he was aware  of the activity on his account.
Having looked  at whats happened  in this case, I think  its more  likely than not that Mr A 
made or authorised the transactions  he disputes.  I say this because:
Ref: DRN43978098the disputed  transactions  were authorised using Mr As genuine card (chip)  and PIN;
there is no convincing  explanation for how an unknown third party  could have been 
aware Mr A lost his bank card and PIN, hed ordered  replacements, and then 
intercepted Mr As bank  card and PIN which were  sent to Mr As home address 
separately via unmarked mail;
the timings of the disputed withdrawals and attempted transactions are unusual and
Mr A didnt  report he hadnt received his bank card and PIN until 23 March 2018, 
which was twice  as long Nationwide had told him hed have to wait and after the 
disputed transactions  had been made.
In summary,  I think its fair and reasonable for Nationwide to refuse a refund because, 
overall, I think its more likely  than not that Mr A made or authorised  the transactions that he 
disputes.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4397809