K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC failed to prevent  a fraudulent  withdrawal from his 
savings account,  were slow to refund the money  stolen and later blocked payments from his 
account without  good cause.
background
For reasons which  are still only partly clear,  someone managed to obtain  a card and PIN and 
withdraw £6,000  from Mr Hs savings account with Lloyds.
After investigating  the matter,  Lloyds refunded the money to Mr Hs account around  two 
weeks later.
Just after that, Mr H tried to make payments from the account, but these were blocked  by 
Lloyds. Mr H says at the time he was trying to invest  some  of his savings in shares.  He says 
he lost more than £4,000  because the price of the shares had gone up by the time he had 
access to his money.
Mr H complained to Lloyds. He was unhappy his account had been exposed to fraud.  He 
thought Lloyds should have returned his money sooner. He was unhappy about the time and 
effort hed had to take to ensure the money  was returned. And he thought Lloyds shouldnt 
have blocked  his payments and had cost him money  when they did so.
Lloyds admitted the service provided  to Mr H had been poor when they were investigating 
the fraud.  Mr H had to visit his branch  several  times. He had to make  several  phone  calls 
which were not handled  well and took longer  than necessary. And Lloyds didnt always  do 
what they told Mr H theyd  do.
It took Lloyds more than two weeks  to return Mr Hs money. And theyve admitted they had 
the information they needed to enable them to do this much sooner  than that.
Lloyds offered Mr H almost £1,500 to compensate him for the poor service,  the time hed 
unnecessarily had to spend on this matter and his costs in doing  so. They also said theyd  
consider compensating him for the money he said hed lost when he couldnt buy the shares 
if he could provide further information or evidence about this. 
Mr H was unhappy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. He felt Lloyds hadnt 
explained how the fraud occurred. He thought the compensation  for the poor service during 
Lloyds investigation  wasnt enough. And he wants compensation for the lost opportunity to 
buy the shares.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Lloyds had done  nothing wrong. He thought the 
compensation already offered to Mr H was sufficient. Mr H disagreed and asked for a final 
decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN40340932the fraudulent  activity
Mr H has raised  a number of questions about how the fraud occurred  and whether Lloyds 
took sufficient precautions  to guard against it.
I should say at the outset that Lloyds  general  security policies and procedures arent 
something wed look into. Our focus is on the individual customer.  If Lloyds did something 
wrong which caused problems for Mr H, well ask them to put things right for him. But its not 
for us to guide  or advise  Lloyds on how best to prevent  fraud.
In this case, it seems  very likely someone  was able to pass Lloyds usual security  checks to 
obtain the card and PIN for Mr Hs account.  They were also able to intercept mail sent to 
Mr Hs correct address and to interfere  with his mobile phone service. Theres no evidence  
that Lloyds failed to carry out their usual security  checks  when the card and PIN was 
obtained.
So, Im satisfied on balance that the fraudulent activity  on Mr Hs account wasnt the result  of 
Lloyds staff failing to act reasonably in applying their usual processes and procedures.
the time taken to refund the money
Lloyds have admitted  the service provided to Mr H between  the fraud taking place and the 
money being refunded to Mr H was poor. Its not necessary  for me to go into great detail 
about that here  Lloyds final response  to Mr H does a very good job of listing in detail all of 
the failings in the way they dealt with Mr H.
I know Mr H had to visit his branch several  times and not all of those visits were necessary. I 
know he spent a lot of time speaking to Lloyds over the phone - or waiting for them to put 
him through  to the right person. And I know he sometimes  didnt get to speak to the right 
person. 
I can appreciate this not only wasted Mr Hs time,  but must also have been very stressful 
since he didnt know at the time whether  Lloyds  were going to refund the money to his 
account.
However, I think Lloyds offer of close to £1,500 compensation  for this was reasonable in all 
the circumstances. Lloyds might have  sorted  the matter  out much  sooner  after Mr Hs visit 
to his branch when  they checked  his passport to confirm he was out of the country  when the 
fraud was carried out. But I bear in mind that Mr H was left in doubt about whether the 
money would  be refunded   with all the stress that caused   for only around two weeks.  
the blocked payments
Mr H has calculated he missed out on more than £4,000 profit  on shares  he says he wished 
to buy when his payment  was blocked by Lloyds. This happened  very shortly  within a 
couple of days  at most - after Lloyds refunded the £6,000 to Mr Hs account. So it was only 
just over two weeks after the fraud was perpetrated.
Mr Hs calculations are based  on an investment  of £40,000. Weve seen the audit trails 
which show the blocked payments. There was a blocked payment of £40,000 at around this 
time, but it appears  not to be related  to share  purchases. Theres another blocked  payment 
for £25,000 which was intended for share dealings.  
Ref: DRN40340933Its possible Mr Hs memory failed him on this point,  but it looks  like if we were  to award any 
compensation, it should be based on £25,000  being  intended for investment in the shares  
rather than £40,000.
In any case, I dont think Lloyds should be asked to compensate Mr H for any lost 
investment opportunities because I dont think it was unreasonable  for Lloyds to block  the 
payment. Ill explain  why.
It would be extraordinary  for any bank  to allow payments to proceed without some sort of 
system of checking. It would also be irresponsible. And it would expose customers to a 
greater risk of fraud.
Its unsurprising then that Lloyds have in place automated systems, designed to pick up 
payments which  appear more likely  to involve fraud,  which run checks  in the background 
against all attempted  payments made using debit cards.
Its also unsurprising that those systems picked up Mr Hs attempted  £25,000 payment as 
requiring further fraud checks. The payment was for a large  amount  of money. It was 
generated overseas, in non-business hours. It was from a person whose account had very 
recently been defrauded. And the fraud was carried out by someone who successfully 
passed security checks by impersonating  Mr H when they ordered the card and PIN on his 
account.
Its very unfortunate  for Mr H he missed out on an investment opportunity  as a result,  but I 
cant say Lloyds acted  unreasonably in blocking this payment and requiring further  security  
checks before the money was released.
Summary
Mr Hs account was subject to fraud and £6,000 was stolen. Lloyds refunded  that money to 
Mr Hs account within just over two weeks. Refunding the money  was fair and reasonable.
Lloyds have also apologised  for failings in their service at what  must have been  a stressful 
time for Mr H and offered him almost £1,500 in compensation.  Im satisfied this is a 
reasonable amount of compensation for Mr Hs trouble and upset in all the circumstances. 
Blocking the £25,000 payment was not unreasonable  taking into account the context in 
which that decision was made. So, I dont think Lloyds can be asked to compensate Mr H for 
any investment opportunities he missed as a result.
Ref: DRN40340934my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4034093