K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt credit the cash she took 
into a branch to her credit card account.
background
Mrs E went  into a branch  on 10 July 2018. She says she paid the full balance of her Halifax  
credit card account of £416.68 in cash. But when she received her next statement this 
showed that a payment of only £21.85 - the minimum required  - had been credited  and this 
had been taken from her current account. She raised a complaint on 27 July 2018.  She 
considered a member  of staff had taken her money and so she reported this to police.
Halifax didnt agree that it had made  a mistake. It said that it had viewed the CCTV from the 
branch, and this didnt  show that Mrs E had cash with her at the counter.  There  were no 
cash discrepancies  that day or any transactions for this amount. Mrs E had first said she had 
taken the cash  out of a cash machine in branch and then said she brought it with her. She 
had also been  inconsistent over whether or not she had received a receipt. It had carried  out 
an internal investigation and had provided  a copy of the CCTV to police who had taken no 
further action. It had waived interest for two months  on the credit card balance  as a gesture 
of goodwill.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and that Halifax refund the 
money, rework  the interest  on the credit card account, and pay Mrs E £100 in compensation. 
He said that:
-It hadnt been possible for this service to view the full CCTV for technical  reasons. 
Halifax had provided screen stills  covering the time when Mrs E was in the branch. 
Naturally there were  time gaps between  them  which  made  it difficult  to say what  
happened in those periods.
-Mrs E had said she never only made the minimum payment and often paid off her 
balance in full which he could see was right. She had said she had taken cash with 
her from a stash she had at home.
-Halifax said that the CCTV showed that Mrs E didnt access her handbag at the 
counter to take out cash. While he could  accept this, he said this didnt rule her taking 
the money out with her statement from her bag when she was waiting to be served.
-He could see that Mrs E would  have needed to enter her card and PIN to verify her 
identity  not just to make a card payment.  So, entering her card and PIN didnt mean 
that she hadnt also given cash to the member of staff.
-He thought that Mrs E had given a plausible explanation of what happened,  and he 
didnt think that Halifax had provided sufficient  evidence to persuade him that Mrs Es 
wasnt the most likely  explanation.
Halifax didnt agree and wanted  an ombudsman to review the case. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 28 July 2020. I set out below the details.
I said I wouldnt be able to say exactly what happened here and I was considering what  is 
most likely. There  is no burden of proof on either  Halifax or Mrs E.
Ref: DRN42689552further information
Id asked Halifax for some more  information. It provided me with a copy of Mrs Es bank 
statement showing the £21.85 payment to her credit card made by faster payment. In 
addition, it provided  a log showing this faster payment was made at 14:47 that day. It 
couldnt provide  me with any specific information now about what Mrs E did at the cash 
machine in the branch,  but it said that she hadnt withdrawn any money. It had said before  
that it thought  she had walked away from that machine carrying  a mini statement. It couldnt 
now provide a system  record  of Mrs E entering her card and PIN at the counter.
the CCTV
I wanted to consider the CCTV evidence first. Although it was reluctant to do so Halifax did 
provide this service  with a copy of the CCTV in branch. It had provided  stills from that CCTV 
as, for technical reasons alone, we couldnt view the recording. I said I wouldnt,  as a result, 
draw any adverse inference from not having been  able to see the full CCTV. And I accepted 
as most likely that Halifax has provided  stills that it believes  give a reasonable reflection of 
what happened. It was always open to this service to request further  stills every  few seconds 
or covering specific times. 
In brief the stills show Mrs E entered  the branch at about 14:38 that day, went to the cash 
machine and walked away from this apparently holding a mini statement. She then went  to a 
desk alongside the queue for the cashiers and took out from her bag what  is thought to be 
her credit card statement. She is then seen to walk to the counter at 14:46 holding this. She 
is seen to input  her PIN to the card machine. There is some dialogue between her and the 
cashier. She is seen  to pick up her statement carrying  her bank card in her right hand and 
statement in her left hand  and walk away from the counter still looking down at the papers 
she is carrying at 14:48.
Mrs E has said to our investigator that the CCTV might  not show  all the angles of what  
happened. And I think thats right because  it isnt designed to monitor individual transactions 
and there  are screens  to provide some privacy  to customers. What she does also say which 
is relevant is that she took in £420  in cash and received change back. And I didnt see any 
sign of her taking and putting that change away in any of the stills Id seen.
what happened?
There are two broad explanations of what happened  here.  The first is that Mrs E entered the 
branch with £420 in cash, used this to pay off her bill and received change back. She didnt 
realise that when  entering her card and PIN she had also authorised a debit from her current 
account of the minimum payment. Either her cash  was lost or was taken by a member of 
staff.
The second  is that Mrs E decided  that she was going to make the payment that day from her 
current account probably having  checked  the balance. Its possible she was told she couldnt 
make the payment directly by cash.  There might have been  some miscommunication at the 
counter about  how much  she wanted to pay, and the minimum payment was taken. She later 
received her credit card statement and genuinely believed shed paid the full amount as 
shed intended  to.
Ref: DRN42689553I set out the factors  which  I thought most helpful in deciding which  of these is the most likely:
-Mrs E in my view is genuine in her belief that she paid the full amount off.
-Mrs E reported what happened after just a couple of weeks.  But when she did Halifax  
noted she was inconsistent about whether she had taken out the cash in branch or 
not or received a receipt for her payment. 
-It isnt clear why she went to the cashpoint before going to the counter. If she did it to 
get a mini statement  this would have shown  sufficient funds in her account to pay the 
full credit card balance.
-Mrs E originally  said she counted  the notes at the desk. There  is no evidence to 
show this or to support that she was holding what would need to be a number of 
notes when she approached the counter.
-If Mrs E had paid the bill with the cash,  she would have expected  to receive  £3.32  
change. It isnt shown on CCTV she was either carrying that or had put the money  
away at the counter.  
-A minimum payment  was taken from Mrs E  I thought it difficult to see how a 
payment from her current account wasnt apparent  to her. 
-The evidence about what  the cashier did from the CCTV stills isnt clear for the 
reasons Ive explained. I wasnt  able to say for certain whether or not she counted  
notes. 
-To take this money would clearly  be a big risk in relation to the amount involved. And 
that would  result  in an investigation  as it did here. Id seen  evidence  that Halifax  
carried out a full investigation and I know that police didnt take any further action.
-I wasnt clear  if Mrs E received  a receipt or not, but she doesnt have one now saying  
her daughter had thrown it away. 
-The CCTV evidence shows she studied  the paperwork she had closely when leaving 
the branch. And I didnt see how the cashier could likely have produced  a bogus 
receipt for the higher  amount using  the systems. 
-The branch  logs show there  was no mistake  made or discrepancies.
.
I needed to balance everything I knew about  this complaint in coming to a provisional 
decision. I said that having done so I didnt have  a reasonable basis  to find that Halifax  made 
a mistake. I appreciated how distressing it would be for Mrs E to hear this when shed 
thought her complaint would be upheld. But I had looked at things independently  and 
reached a different conclusion.
As a result, I explained  that this wasnt yet the end of our process and Mrs E was free to 
provide any more evidence or submissions before I make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax said that it accepted my provisional  decision and didnt have anything  else to add.
Mrs E didnt agree. She said that it is now about  two years to the day since  she went into the 
branch. She went to the cashier and was told she couldnt make the payment in cash and to 
go the counter  near the front door of the branch. Then the cashier  said she would accept the 
cash. She handed  £417 over. She was asked for her debit card and PIN which  she thought  a 
bit strange. Mrs E said she had never  made just the minimum payment in years. She had 
Ref: DRN42689554done all she could to get the evidence and had tried to speak  to the cashier  but who she 
says was only a temporary member  of staff there. 
Mrs E said she will never know how her money  was taken but that she isnt dishonest or a 
liar. She will never  forget  what happened and she isnt in the wrong.
Ive considered what Mrs E said carefully  and have gone back through  the CCTV evidence.  I 
wont repeat  what I said above but I stand by my analysis  of this. To clarify  this shows Mrs E 
entering her card and PIN when she first got to the counter and not following any opportunity 
for discussion with that cashier. I cant know what discussion then passed  between her and 
the cashier, but I note from the transaction  records that the payment of £21.85  went  through  
at exactly 14:47:39.  This is entirely consistent with her time at the counter. Im afraid I see no 
evidence of any cash changing hands and of any change being given to and carried  by    
Mrs E. Thats either change from the £420  I originally understood she said she was carrying  
or from the £417  she now refers to and which clearly  would have  itself included some  coins.
In conclusion I dont  have a basis to find it most likely that Halifax  has made a mistake  and 
should refund this money to Mrs E. In making  this finding I say again that I consider Mrs E 
has brought this complaint in good faith. Unfortunately,  the outcome isnt in her favour and 
that is because  the evidence  I have  doesnt  support her recollection of what  happened.  I 
know she will be disappointed by my final assessment  of this complaint at the end of our 
process.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4268955