K821x#15complaint
Ms Gs complaint is about Old Park Capital Limited  (OPC), the operator of a Business 
Premises Renovation  Allowance (BPRA) scheme (the scheme).  It was a collective 
investment scheme  and she invested  into it in April 2013. In the main, she says OPC did not 
inform her that insufficient capital had been raised  for the scheme; that she would have 
exercised a contractual right to withdraw  from it if she knew; and that it failed to file tax 
returns related to the scheme on time, which led to HMRC fines against her.
background
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and concluded that it should  be upheld.  
He issued an initial view in response to which OPC questioned our jurisdiction to address the 
complaints merits.  The matter of our jurisdiction was referred  to me and I issued a decision 
confirming that the complaints merits can be addressed by this service. The investigator  
then provided a second view on the complaint which  affirmed  his first. He mainly concluded 
as follows:
In the main, OPC  had not responded to repeated information requests  from this 
service. It provided some commentary  on some aspects of the complaint but none of 
those comments alter the conclusion that the complaint  should  be upheld.
This conclusion rests on available  evidence, wider knowledge about  OPCs role in 
the scheme and information from previous similar/comparable complaints about OPC  
and the same scheme which  have been  addressed and upheld by this service.
The failure to raise the requisite  capital  for the scheme increased  its vulnerability to 
failure  materially changing  the scheme and making it different  from when Ms G 
invested in it. She was likely to have withdrawn from it if she was aware of the 
change in circumstances and it would have been  reasonable for her to do so. 
OPC  has made optimistic  comments about  the scheme concluding successfully 
despite its problems,  but the relevant points are that it was wrong to have failed to 
inform Ms G about  the funding problem and it was wrong  to have deprived her of the 
opportunity to consider such a significant change in circumstances and to withdraw 
her investment.
OPC  filed the relevant tax returns without due care and skill, and is responsible for 
the HMRC fines applied against Ms G.
OPC  should refund Ms Gs capital  to her  but she should give credit  for any tax relief 
she has received (and does  not have to repay  HMRC) from her investment in the 
scheme. OPC should  also compensate  her for the tax penalties (arising  from the 
scheme) she faced, with interest, and it should pay her £500 for the trouble and 
upset the matter has caused her.
OPC disagreed with this outcome. It said the scheme has not failed, it is ongoing  and it is 
likely that it will be completed successfully; Ms G has received some tax relief  from the 
scheme which has not been clawed back by HMRC and she is due to receive further  tax 
relief upon  completion  of the scheme;  and it is likely that she will also receive a financial gain 
from the scheme upon completion. Overall, OPCs  view is that Ms Gs complaint about the 
scheme is essentially premature.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN46399552my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions expressed  by the investigator.
The investigator had enough available evidence and wider  information to determine his 
view(s) on the complaint.  This would have included documentation provided as part of other  
complaints referred  to this service about OPC,  about  the same  scheme  and about the same  
complaint issues. I have used the same wider basis (of evidence  and information, including  
comments from OPC) to determine this decision and I conclude  as follows   
Tax Returns
Tax return  documentation, including those signed by OPC, confirms  its responsibility 
to file the scheme members tax returns on their behalf/on behalf of the scheme. The 
members agreement  for the scheme  also refers to the operator/manager  (which was 
OPC) having an administrative obligation  in this respect.
There is ample evidence of OPCs failure to file the tax returns  relevant to Ms G and 
to her investment  in the scheme.  This includes cross correspondence between  
members of the scheme (including  Ms G) and OPC over this matter and HMRC 
documentation about the fines  incurred. This evidence shows that OPC was 
responsible for the relevant filing, had to be chased to do so, did not do so to ensure 
they were filed on time and had to be chased to assist in addressing problems with 
HMRC arising from the late tax return filing. OPC  also appears to have conceded that 
it might  have made the wrong  judgment  call with regards to the way it communicated  
the tax returns to HMRC.
Overall, I consider that OPC  was inefficient in filing the tax returns and that this led to 
the problems with and the fines from HMRC that Ms G faced. There is wider 
evidence of the same cause and effect  in the other complaints referred to this service 
 some of which have already been upheld.  OPC had a regulated  duty to discharge  
this responsibility with due skill, care and diligence and it was aware of the 
requirement to submit the relevant  tax returns on time (in order  to avoid fines). Its 
failure to do so breached this duty and, importantly, directly caused the fines  applied  
to Ms G, so it must compensate her in this respect.
Withdrawal from the scheme
There is evidence of an information memorandum (IM)  for the scheme. As I said 
above, other complaints about  OPC, about  the same scheme  and about  the same  
allegations as those made  by Ms G have been submitted to this service by other  
members of the scheme.
There are copies  of the IM within the documentation for the complaints (about OPC 
and about the scheme) we have  received.  I have access  to them all and I consider 
them applicable  to Ms Gs complaint. The same applies to other relevant documents, 
including membership  and management agreement documentation for the scheme.
The IM refers to the scheme raising around  £7 million (roughly equally split between 
investor capital and loans) in order to acquire and develop  a specific commercial 
Ref: DRN46399553property for commercial purposes. It is in this context that it was sold as a scheme 
that benefits from potential BPRA based tax reliefs. 
Within the IM references are made to the different  details and terms of the scheme. 
These include a minimum investment subscription (made up of investor  capital and a 
loan element), a minimum investor capital  amount, a list of the scheme managers 
responsibilities (which expressly  include the duty to report  to and update the 
schemes members on their interests  in and progress of the scheme and to give them 
access to the schemes records) and, importantly  (and under the headings of LLP 
Financing and Risk Factors), confirmation  of the following   
The total funds required to be raised  by the LLP in order for the Offer to proceed are 
£3,750,000  [my emphasis]
If insufficient subscriptions  in the view of [the manager] are received and a financial 
close fails to occur, then monies subscribed,  with any interest  earned thereon,  will be 
returned to subscribers. [my emphasis]
The management agreement  for the scheme  echoed broadly the same list of 
responsibilities as provided in the IM and the terms for the scheme  that are 
addressed in the IM are broadly reflected in the management and membership 
agreements.
I consider, given the above, that Ms Gs complaint is not premature. It is not about 
the full-term prospects of the scheme. It is about a significant change in the 
circumstances of the scheme  (around 2013) whereby the minimum funding required 
in order for it to proceed was not achieved.  It is also about investors like Ms G having 
the right to withdraw their investment (with interest) in such circumstances. The 
schemes failure to achieve the minimum funding  level happened before Ms Gs 
complaint. The wrongdoing  alleged against  OPC is that it failed to update her  as it 
was contractually obliged to  in this respect. Evidence confirms  that it did not update  
her at the time  it does not appear to dispute  this  so this too happened before her 
complaint. 
OPC  argues that raising  capital for the scheme was supposed  to span the 2012/2013  
and 2013/2014 tax years and that development work was supposed to be agreed or 
begin before  the end of the first tax year (and before  financing  for the scheme  was 
concluded) in order to qualify  for tax relief  related  to that year.  It has argued that the 
scheme was therefore permitted to proceed into action before its financing  was 
completed and/or despite any shortfall in its financing.  
Significantly less than the required  investor capital was raised for the scheme  
around 15% of it was raised, which amounted to around 7% of the total scheme 
funding required.  A loan facility  of around  £3 million was used to support this 
shortfall, but the effect was that the ratio of loan/borrowing/debt  to capital/equity 
changed drastically from what had been presented to Ms G at the outset and, with 
this, the risk profile of the scheme  also changed  (increased)  significantly. The capital 
to loan ratio was no longer broadly equal, instead the loan element was around six 
times the size of the capital element.
OPCs responsibilities  as manager  and operator  of the scheme  included  the duty to 
disclose this to Ms G at the time. This fell within its duty to report  to, and update,  the 
Ref: DRN46399554schemes members on their interests  in the scheme  and on the schemes  progress. I 
have not seen evidence that it did this. 
In addition to OPCs  reporting obligations  the need to disclose the financing  situation 
to members like Ms G was also essential in the context of the capital refund 
arrangement I quoted  above. With significantly less investor capital  than required,  the 
viability of the scheme  had to be doubtful and on that basis the prospect of refunding  
monies subscribed must have been  a probability, at least, if not a certainty. This 
could not have been reasonably concealed from the investors and it was 
unreasonable for OPC  not to have updated  them in this respect. 
Even if, as it appears, OPC was optimistic about  the scheme despite the significant 
financing shortfall,  it managed and operated the scheme on behalf of the investors 
like Ms G. If it believed  there  was hope  for the scheme despite  the shortfall, that 
should have been  expressed  as a part of its update to her and she should have been 
given the opportunity  to consider such an update  and the option of either  sharing 
OPCs optimism (by remaining with the scheme) or exercising  her right to withdraw 
her capital.  It was unreasonable for OPC  to deprive her of this and that is what it did 
by not updating and informing her about  the shortfall. 
Had Ms G been so informed, I am persuaded that she would have withdrawn her 
capital from the scheme. Funding  would have been  essential to a scheme  in which  
the sole or main  activity was property development. Without  requisite capital to fund 
such development it is arguable that the scheme  was no longer viable (especially as 
the investor capital  generated  was so significantly less than was required). I consider 
that this would probably have been  the rationale  behind a decision by Ms G to 
withdraw her capital and it would  have been a well-founded rationale.
Overall and on balance, I conclude that Ms G must be compensated by OPC in this 
matter too. Furthermore, I endorse the investigators finding that OPC should pay her 
£500 for the trouble  and upset she has been  caused in the matters related to its 
mismanagement of the scheme.
fair compensation
In deciding what is fair my aim is to put Ms G as close as I can to the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been  informed  about  the financing  shortfall  and had withdrawn 
from the scheme; and if OPC had not delayed in filing her tax returns. 
Tax Returns
Fair compensation for Ms G in this respect  is to receive, with interest, an amount that covers 
the total of all the fines and/or penalties  from HMRC that she faced and paid as a direct  
result of OPCs mishandling of filing her and/or  the schemes tax returns.  Evidence  of the 
relevant HMRC fines/penalties should  be shared, by Ms G, with OPC  upon its request if 
needed to calculate the compensation figure.
Withdrawal from the scheme
It is necessary to consider when Ms G ought  to have  been told about  the financing  shortfall. 
This will help to define the point (thereafter) at which she would have been due a refund of 
her capital, having withdrawn from the scheme in response to news about  the shortfall. An 
Ref: DRN46399555early decision  that was made in one of the other  cases  referred  to us considered this too. 
The ombudsman concluded that the point at which the relevant complainant  ought  to have 
been due a refund is 30 June 2013.  I consider  this also applies to Ms Gs case.
OPC was aware of the shortfall around  the start of the 2013/2014 tax year; reasonable time 
should be allowed  for OPCs consideration of the impact of  the shortfall  and of any solution 
it might  have wished to explore (and propose);  had it then informed Ms G soon thereafter, 
reasonable time should be allowed for Ms Gs consideration of her position (and decision) in 
response to such an important update; as stated above, she would probably have withdrawn 
from the scheme, so reasonable time should also be allowed for her communicating this and 
for the processing  of such withdrawal; overall,  and subsequent to these allowances, I 
consider that the refund  of her capital  (and any associated loan element) would have  been  
due to her by the end of the first quarter in the 2013/2014 tax year  that is, 30 June 2013.
The contractual refund entitlement included any applicable interest (from when the 
subscription payment  was made  into the scheme  to when  it was withdrawn  the first 
period) so this must  be reflected in the compensation due to Ms G. The effect being that the 
refund amount that would have been due to her on 30 June  2013  would have  included  any 
applicable interest for the first period  (the end of the first period being 30 June  2013). As 
explained below,  additional interest must  then be calculated on that amount from 1 July 
2013 to the date of settlement (the second  period).  The interest  rate applicable for the first 
period does not appear to be stipulated  in available evidence so the Bank  of England  base 
rate should  be used  in this respect.
what must  OPC do?
To compensate Ms G fairly,  OPC  must:
Tax Returns
Pay her the amount  equal to the total of all the HMRC fines  and/or penalties  she 
incurred/incurs as a direct  result  of OPCs filing of her/the schemes tax returns  at the 
times that it did; plus interest  from the time Ms G paid/pays  the fines/penalties  to 
HMRC to the date OPC settles  this compensation; interest applies at the rate of 8% 
simple per year.
Withdrawal from the scheme
Pay her the amount  equal to her capital investment plus interest at the Bank of 
England base rate from the date of her investment  up to 30 June 2013 (the refund 
amount);  plus interest  on the refund amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from 1 
July 2013 to the date OPC  settles  this compensation; plus any loan element of 
Ms Gs investment and plus any and all interest  payments and charges  she 
incurred/incurs in relation  to the loan element.
[Ms G should give credit  for any tax relief (or similar  benefit) she has received from 
HMRC in relation  to her investment in the scheme which  she has not paid back  
and/or does not have to pay back.]
[If relevant  and if OPC  requests, Ms G should also assign to OPC any remaining 
interest she has in the scheme so that if there  is any present or future value in it such  
value would belong  to OPC.]
Ref: DRN46399556Pay her compensation  for any reasonable costs she has incurred, since 30 June 
2013, in trying to resolve the schemes  problems with OPC; and/or in trying  to 
dissolve or mitigate her interest in the scheme;  Ms G must  provide OPC with 
documentary evidence of any such reasonable costs.
Trouble and Upset
Pay her £500  for the trouble and upset caused to her by the problems that arose  
from the scheme because OPC denied her the opportunity to withdraw from it.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded (above).
compensation limit
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred  and when  the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds  the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance.  Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely  that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such  balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting  independent  legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept  the decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Ms Gs complaint. I order  Old Park Capital Limited to 
pay her compensation  as detailed above and to provide her with a calculation  of the 
compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4639955