K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make Mr and Mrs M aware  that the PPI was optional and gain their 
consent before adding  it to their account.  I cant be sure what  was said at the time Mr and 
Mrs M applied for the PPI, but Nationwide has provided a copy  of the paperwork they would 
have seen and completed during the sale. 
Mr and Mrs M first completed a mortgage  application which had a separate  section relating 
to PPI. This section gave  three options  to choose  from  they could either select yes to take 
the PPI, No to say they didnt want cover, or No to confirm  they were  taking cover with 
another provider.  Mr and Mrs M selected  Yes to take the PPI and signed underneath  to 
confirm their selection. 
Following their application for the mortgage, Nationwide  then produced a mortgage  
illustration for Mr and Mrs M which set out the monthly cost of the PPI. Nationwide then 
asked them to complete a separate application  for the PPI cover,  where they could select 
the level of cover they wanted. Mr and Mrs M chose to split the cover  between them, and 
selected accident, sickness and unemployment  cover which would  help cover  their mortgage 
payments for 12 months if either of them was too ill to work or became unemployed. Mr and 
Mrs M both signed this form.
With all Ive seen, I think it would have  been clear to Mr and Mrs M that they had a choice 
about taking the PPI, and I think they chose  to take it knowing they didnt have to.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it didnt have to check  if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make  sure they got the information he needed to decide if it 
was right for them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But the cost of the PPI was set out in the mortgage  illustration  they saw 
before they completed the separate  PPI application,  so I think  they would have understood 
how much  they would be paying  for it. And the paperwork Ive seen also sets out the basic 
type of cover  the PPI would provide, so as I think Mr and Mrs M chose to take the PPI, it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
Ref: DRN48552732Based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
they were affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And while  I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs M both had good  sick pay, the policy would  have paid out for up to 12 
months, so longer  than theyve said their full sick pay would have  lasted. Mr and Mrs M have 
also said that they had the funds to significantly overpay their mortgage, so would not have 
needed the PPI. But if one of them had been  too ill to work  or had lost their job, its likely 
their household income would have been  significantly affected.  So given that the mortgage  
was a serious financial commitment secured against their home,  I think  the PPI could have 
been useful for them  if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put them off taking out the cover.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Nationwide didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs M have said, but their pints dont change 
my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2019. 
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4855273