K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about a delay in his windscreen  being repaired by the company specified in 
his U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) motor insurance policy.  He says as a 
result hes lost overtime and he wants compensation.
background
Mr Ws windscreen was cracked by a stone  and needed replacing. He contacted the glass 
replacement company named in his UKI motor insurance policy. 
The glass  replacement company which repaired the windscreen on UKIs behalf apologised 
for rescheduling the appointment a number of times. It said it was unacceptable that Mr W 
hadnt received  the service he had very right to expect.  And it agreed as a goodwill gesture 
to offer him £150  which  was the waiving of his £75 excess and a £75 payment. Mr W 
rejected this offer.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
The first appointment  was rescheduled by Mr W. A later date was booked and when 
offered an earlier day Mr W declined it. She cant therefore  say the glass 
replacement company was responsible for these delays. But some other delays were 
its fault. There were four failed appointments due to incorrect booking dates and the 
required glass being unavailable.
Mr W also wants UKI to cover  his lost overtime and wages. But we dont usually ask 
businesses to pay such losses as all insurance claims take time to resolve and can 
cause inconvenience  albeit in this case there were added complications in making 
arrangements for access to the vehicle because  of the nature and location of Mr Ws 
work. But she cant hold the glass company responsible for these personal 
arrangements. 
Despite the windscreen damage Mr Ws vehicle was still driveable and it didnt cause 
an issue given the time of year.  He was offered £150 compensation for the various  
errors made and inconvenience he was caused.  Thats fair and reasonable.
Mr W doesnt agree and he has asked for an ombudsman review.  In summary he says it isnt 
reasonable to blame his personal  arrangements.  Hes never had this trouble with other 
windscreen replacement  companies in the past.  The correct  replacement glass  wasnt 
sourced quickly or wasnt available. Offering  £150  compensation  for six weeks of delay and 
inconvenience isnt enough. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its clear that the repair of Mr Ws windscreen glass didnt  go as smoothly as it couldve 
done. Theres no doubt that both Mr W and the glass  replacement company contributed to 
the delay in some degree at various  times.  The situation was also complicated by Mr Ws 
working arrangements and issues with the glass replacement company accessing his place  
Ref: DRN44181072of work. But even though there  were  delays and issues with sourcing the correct  glass  his 
car remained drivable.
UKIs glass replacement  company has acknowledged its failings and offered a goodwill 
payment of a total of £150 compensation for them. 
Mr W rejected  this offer and wants UKI to pay more compensation including  for some lost 
overtime. But theres nothing to show any overtime was guaranteed  and Im not convinced  
on balance that UKI or the glass replacement  company can be blamed if Mr W did in fact 
lose any overtime. They also werent  solely responsible  for the six weeks  it took to complete 
the repair. This work wouldve  taken some time to finish in any event and some of the delay 
was down to what Mr W did and when  he was available.
All consumers spend some time and experience some additional  inconvenience  in dealing  
with a complaint  and putting things right. We wouldnt generally  recommend theyre  
compensated for this and Im not persuaded that I can reasonably depart from this approach 
in this case.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make I dont think I can 
fairly or reasonably ask UKI to pay any more than the £150 compensation the glass  
replacement company has already offered.
And I simply  leave it to Mr W to decide whether he now wants to accept the glass  
replacement companys offer of £150  compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4418107