K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc opened a credit  card account in his name. He 
says the application was made by someone  other  than him.  
background
In November and December 2013 two credit  card accounts were taken out in Mr B's 
name.  The applications for these accounts  were completed online, using an address that 
Mr B says  he hasn't occupied since about  2010.
The cards  and PINs were sent to that address and the cards were activated by 
telephone.  Shortly afterwards, both cards were used up to their credit limit for retail 
transactions and cash  withdrawals. No payments were ever made,  and Capital One 
issued default  notices  in April  2014.
Mr B says he didn't  know about the cards  until he checked his credit file in early 2018.  
He contacted  Capital  One to say he thought he'd been the victim of identity  theft. 
Someone had, without  his knowledge,  used his former address  to make  the applications.
Capital One didn't  however  accept Mr B's version  of events. It said that the address 
given on the applications was his parents'  house  and he still had access to this property. 
It thought  that Mr B was behind the applications.
Mr B complained  to this service  and I issued  a provisional  decision  on his complaint.  I 
said,  in summary,  that I thought  it more  likely  than not that Mr B had indeed  made  the 
applications  himself.  I didnt  require  Capital  One to do anything  further  to resolve  the 
complaint.  
Mr B didnt  accept  my provisional  findings.  He said that he was only complaining  about  
one account,  not two; but he didnt  say that he had applied  for any accounts  in either  
November  or December  2013.  Ive therefore  reviewed  the case  again,  as the final stage  in 
our consideration  of it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with Mr Bs specific response  to my provisional decision  that there was only 
one account involved. The banks records however clearly indicate two accounts  were 
opened one month  apart at the end of 2013.  Mr B says he didnt apply for any accounts at 
that time,  so I remain of the view that its necessary for me to consider whether Capital One 
acted correctly in opening either of them. And, whilst  Ive looked  again carefully at all the 
evidence available  to me, I havent  changed  my view from that set out in my provisional  
decision. 
The applications were  both made  online.  The applicant  would  have needed to provide  
personal information about Mr B  such as his date of birth, telephone number and email 
address. But all the information needed  would have been readily  available to anyone  close 
to Mr B or (in the case of an email address, for example) fairly easy  to change. Given that 
the address on the application was Mr B's childhood home and that family  members still 
Ref: DRN45936052lived there in late 2013,  I don't believe the use of his personal information necessarily shows  
that he made the applications.
The cards had to be activated by telephone. Capital One no longer has specific information 
about the security  questions that were asked  in 2013, but its likely that it was available to 
family members as well as Mr B.
I said in my provisional decision that I thought  there were four possibilities. They were:
Mr B made the applications himself, using  his parents' address. 
He let someone else make  the applications in his name.
Someone else at that address made the applications in his name, without his 
knowledge.
Someone unknown  to Mr B made the applications.
The last of these  is most  unlikely, since  an unknown  fraudster wouldnt have been able to 
collect both cards and PINs  from the address used; nor would they have enough information 
to be able to activate the cards. 
As I've said, Capital  One's  records show that the online forms required the applicant  to 
provide an email address. The email address provided as part of the application process is 
one that Mr B has used  in the past to communicate  with this service. And when one of the 
accounts was activated, this was updated  to Mr B's newer  email  address that this service 
has on file for him now. A fraudster seeking  to use the cards  without  Mr B's knowledge 
would not have done that, since it could have made him aware  of the accounts  which Mr B 
would then be able to close.
Mr B says that it wasn't  his postal address given on the application either. He had lived there 
in the past as it was his parents' house,  but he'd moved by the time these applications were 
submitted. But our investigations  showed that he used that address when dealing with other  
financial businesses, after 2013.  So, whether or not he actually lived there  at the time, I think 
the use of that address for the applications is consistent with Mr B having made them.  
Finally, Capital One's internal system notes show that in January 2014 it received a call from 
someone claiming to be the the cardholder  to discuss  the fact that a monthly  payment  had 
been missed, that it would be paid before the end of the month and to give reassurance 
them that was just a one-off. It's unlikely that a fraudster  would  make  such  a call, particularly 
since by that point both accounts  were over their credit limit of £200 and Capital One 
wouldn't allow the cardholder any further  spending on the account.  There's  no obvious 
reason why a fraudster  would need to persuade  Capital One to keep the account  open or to 
delay potential enforcement action in relation  to the outstanding debt.  It was however in Mr 
B's interest to do that.    
For these reasons, I believe its more likely than not that Mr B made  the applications himself 
and had the benefit of the credit cards and the spending on them. 
Ref: DRN45936053my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Capital One plc to take any further  action to resolve 
Mr Bs complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 17 October 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4593605