K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains on behalf of his wife, Mrs P, that he and his wife were  unable to access  her 
account with TSB Bank plc online. Mr P says that, because of this banking  error, he was 
offered £175 compensation  but that this hasnt been  paid. He wants  this compensation plus 
compensation for the additional  distress and inconvenience caused by trying to get this 
payment and trying to access his wifes account online. 
background
Mrs P has a sole account with TSB and also a joint account with her husband, Mr P. Mr P 
says that, because of their lifestyle, they have agreed that Mr P manages the accounts and 
is responsible for all payments. He says that this requires him to have access to Mrs Ps sole 
account as well as his joint account  with her in order to move  money  around  when  needed. 
In late October and November 2018,  Mr and Mrs P found that they were unable to log on to 
the TSB login page. Mr P says they called TSB on 1 November 2018 trying to find what had 
gone wrong. A complaint  was raised  during this call. 
On 8 November  2018, Mr P found that he could access the accounts  online. 
Sometime between 1 and 8 November 2018, a TSB complaints manager called Mr P. Mr P 
told her that, as they already had multiple  complaints  against  the TSB that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service was dealing with, theyd might  as well let them deal with this one too. 
Mr P said that the complaints manager pleaded with them not to go to the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and to allow them to deal with the complaint.  Mr P says that she told 
them she would resolve the issue and pay the same compensation that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service would pay. Mr P said she set a deadline of 16 November 2018 to 
resolve the issue. 
On 19 November 2018, Mr P says he was back on the online system. As he hadnt heard 
from TSB regarding the payment, he says he started  to make calls every  day. 
On 23 November 2018, Mr P says he finally got through to a complaints manager.  He said 
he agreed compensation of £175  with her. 
Mr P says that from 30 November 2018  to 30 December 2018,  he started chasing TSB as he 
had still not received the £175  he was expecting. He says that he was told on 18 December 
2018 that his previous complaints manager was no longer handling the case  but that the 
payment would be made. 
Mr P says that he started  getting  locked out of the online system again  on 31 December 
2018. But he found that he could  access it on his mother in laws laptop. 
In total, Mr P says that he was locked out of the online account from around the end of 
October 2018 to the beginning of March  2019 with some days  when he could access it. He 
says that, because he couldnt  move  money  around, he and his wife missed payments which 
resulted in bank  charges. 
Mr P brought the complaint to us before the eight weeks allowing TSB to look into the matter  
was up. But, TSB allowed us to consider the complaint to speed things up. 
Ref: DRN40963842TSB said that they hadnt offered Mr P £175  compensation. They  say their notes dont say 
£175 was offered. They also said that the telephone conversation that Mr P had with a 
complaints manager  has shown  that £175 wasnt offered.  The complaints manager said that 
this would be adequate compensation if they were at fault but that she would send an email  
to the relevant team to make the decision.  
TSB said they hadnt begged Mr P not to go to the Financial Ombudsman Service and that 
they would  never say this to a customer.  
TSB said that Mr P wouldnt  have  received a call back  from them until the eight week  period  
for the complaint had passed as they were  dealing with a backlog of cases. 
Finally, TSB said that the reason Mr P couldnt  log on to online banking  was because he 
needed to use Safari rather  than Firefox. They said that Mr P had been  told this on more 
than one occasion. They said that if Mrs P wanted to use her online account again,  she 
would need to ring them  and reset her password.  She would then be able to log on using  
Safari. 
Our investigator found that TSB had done  nothing wrong. She found that Mr P shouldnt  
have been using Mrs Ps online account and that TSB could stop use of the online banking  
as she had breached the terms and conditions of the account  in giving her password, etc to 
a third party. She suggested  that Mrs P sign a third party mandate form for Mr P or give him 
a Power of Attorney. 
She also found Mr P being unable to log on to the online account  wasnt  a banking IT issue. 
This was because he had been able to log on using different browsers.  So, it appeared that 
the issue was with the browser  that he was using. 
She found that TSB hadnt offered Mr P £175 compensation. 
Mr P wasnt  happy with this decision so the complaint has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Mr P wont be happy  with my decision. I think  that TSB has behaved  fairly  and 
reasonably in this matter.  I will explain why. 
I can completely understand Mr Ps frustration  at not being  able to log on to his and his 
wifes accounts online. Then, on top of that, the frustration of having to make  many calls to 
the TSB to try to resolve the issue  one of which lasted over an hour. 
But, I have listened  to the calls that TSB have  provided and find that they tried to resolve 
matters. I find that TSB tried to explain to Mr P that he needed to use a different browser and 
log on again rather than using saved details. Because Mr P didnt remember the log on 
details, TSB advised him to get his wife to reset  the password on her account. I think that 
they were right in not allowing Mr P to do this on her behalf  as this would protect her from 
any potential fraud.  
Ref: DRN40963843It appears that Mr P didnt  get his wife to ring in to reset the password. I cant see why this 
wasnt done as it wouldve  resolved  the issue with the online banking and avoided any 
charges that were  incurred as a result  of payments not being  made.  I cant  hold TSB 
responsible for charges incurred  by Mrs P not changing her password and logging on using 
Safari as suggested.
I also listened to the call regarding the £175.  It is clear to me that £175 wasnt  offered by the 
complaints manager.  She simply said that it would  be fair compensation if TSB had made an 
error. She made it clear that she would send an email to the relevant team asking  if the £175 
would be paid. She also made it clear that she couldnt authorise the payment.  
It appears that the complaint was raised on 6 November  2018 with TSB when Mr P said he 
would come to us. So, as TSB had eight weeks within which  to resolve  the complaint, I 
wouldnt have expected them to call Mr P until it had been resolved. 
Im sorry  that this is not the outcome that Mr P was hoping for. But I hope  that he can see 
why I have come to this conclusion. 
my final decision
I think that TSB Bank  plc acted fairly and reasonably in their dealings with Mr P. So, I wont 
be asking them to do anything else.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4096384