K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Metro Bank Plc hasnt raised  a chargeback  request  for several  payments  he 
made using  his debit  card in May 2018.
background
In June 2018, Mr B contacted Metro Bank to request a chargeback  for several  deposits  he 
made in May 2018, to credit  an account he holds with an online betting  company. He 
explained the company didnt credit the deposits but the money wasnt  returned to him. 
Mr B says Metro Bank asked him for information, including a pdf copy of the terms and 
conditions of the merchant he made the payment to. But he explained these werent  
available in that format. Between July 2018 and November 2018, Mr B exchanged numerous 
emails with Metro Bank. At first, he wanted  to check that a chargeback had been initiated.  In 
his later emails, Mr B wanted to check whether Metro Bank had received his letter as he was 
being asked to provide the same  information. In January  2019,  Mr B received  a letter  from 
Metro Bank  saying his claim  wouldnt be raised.  It was later confirmed this was because it 
was out of time.
Mr B complained to Metro  Bank.  It didnt  uphold his complaint explaining  he hadnt provided 
the information it had requested. So it wasnt able to continue with the chargeback request. 
And now it was too late to look into the matter. Mr B remained unhappy and referred the 
matter to us. He explained  Metro  Bank  had been  slow in dealing with his request and had 
refused to communicate  with him about  it. He also explained he sent further information by 
post and the delivery was signed  for. But Metro Bank later told him it didnt  receive anything  
from him. Mr B also said that if hed known he needed to provide more  information, he would 
have endeavoured to get it for Metro Bank. 
Our investigator concluded Metro Bank  hadnt  done anything wrong as it had set out what  
information it needed from Mr B to consider  his request but this hadnt been provided.  She 
explained banks  dont have to raise  chargebacks  if theres  insufficient  evidence to support  
the claim.  The investigator  also didnt think Metro Bank refused to communicate with Mr B as 
shed seen the email  chain  between  them. He had continued emailing the general  enquiries 
mailbox after it had repeatedly told him it couldnt  respond to any account specific  queries by 
email.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators findings, stating he had sent a letter to Metro  Bank  
detailing the information it had asked  for. He had also posted Metro  Bank  a copy  of the email  
he sent to the betting company asking for his money to be returned. Our investigator 
checked this with Metro Bank and was told it had received a letter from him in August 2018  
following its request  for more information. But it didnt contain  all the information it was after. 
And it never received a copy  of the email Mr B says he sent to the company. Our 
investigator considered  this new information and concluded it wouldnt have made  a 
difference if Metro  Bank had received the email. This was because  there  was still insufficient 
evidence that the money  Mr B was asking  to be returned back  to him hadnt credited his 
betting account.
Mr B remained unhappy  and asked for an ombudsman  to review the matter. And so this 
complaint has come  to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN42042532my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I know itll come as a 
disappointment to Mr B but I dont uphold it. Ill explain why.
What Im being asked  to consider here is whether Metro Bank was right not to progress 
Mr Bs request for a chargeback. Chargeback is a voluntary process that is provided by the 
card scheme  MasterCard, Visa or American  Express. It allows customers to ask for a 
transaction to be reversed  if there's a problem with the goods  or services they've paid for. 
But there's no legal  right to a chargeback. It isnt a guaranteed  method of getting a refund. 
And, if the bank feels that a claim won't  be successful, we wouldnt expect it to raise a 
chargeback.
Metro Bank  issues its debit cards under the MasterCard card scheme.  So MasterCards 
rules governing chargebacks apply. The rules set out a number of reasons when a 
chargeback can be requested. They  also set out the conditions  which  need to be met for a 
request to be made under any of those reasons. One of the conditions  is that the cardholder  
should be able to demonstrate that they have contacted or attempted to the contact the 
merchant to resolve the dispute.  
Mr B initially  told us and Metro Bank he contacted  the online betting company through an 
online live chat. So he didnt have a record of the conversation.  But after the investigator 
issued her view, he informed us he had emailed  the company  but they never responded. He 
forwarded us a copy of this email (dated 7 July 2018),  explaining he also sent a copy  to 
Metro Bank.  In the email, Mr B makes  reference to a previous email he sent to the merchant 
on 31 May 2018. 
Our investigator asked  Metro Bank  if it had seen this email  before. It told us it hadnt. The 
investigator asked Mr B if he had proof of delivery. He told us he didnt keep the receipt. He 
also told us that he went to the Post Office  and they told him they didnt have records either  
without making any attempt to check. Mr B said he could ask again and make  a complaint 
this time. But as this could  take months, he asked if the ombudsman  reviewing his case  
could grant  him an extended period of time to acquire the receipts if theyre  vital.
Ive given this some thought and I dont think the receipts have a bearing on Mr Bs 
complaint. I say this because even if Mr B provided a receipt it wouldnt actually show  what  
was sent in the envelope. And I have questions about the e-mail itself.  It cant  have been 
sent with Mr Bs letter of August 2018 as in that letter he says he doesnt have any evidence  
of contacting the merchant as this was done by live chat. But the e-mail Mr B provided  
during the course of our investigation appears to contradict that. If this email was sent on 
7 July 2018, purportedly following a number  of previous e-mails to the merchant about  this 
matter, then I question  why Mr B wasnt able to provide this with his letter  and why he said 
he had no proof.  
Mr B says he would  have made further attempts if hed known Metro Bank wanted more 
information. But looking at the email chain  between him and Metro Bank, Mr B knew it 
wanted more information. I say this because in his email dated 26 October 2018, he 
mentions receiving a letter from Metro  Bank  asking for the same information again.  In a 
further email dated 8 November 2018, Mr B says hell send  the same  letter  again 
(presumably the same  one he sent Metro Bank in August 2018). 
Ref: DRN42042533Indeed, I note that in his correspondence  with this office he says he responded to this further 
information request  by sending the same  letter  as was sent in August 2018 (the content).  So 
if, as he submits, he sent the same  information it still would have referred to the live chat and 
not being able to provide  proof of his contact  with the merchant. 
There is no persuasive evidence that Mr B sent Metro Bank a copy of the e-mail he says he 
sent to the merchant. It was only provided during the course  of our investigation. Because of 
that the evidential standard needed to raise a chargeback with Mastercard hadnt been met. 
And so I dont find that Metro Bank was wrong  to decline to raise the chargeback.  
Ive also considered Mr Bs comments about Metro Bank refusing to communicate with him. 
Having considered what I have, I dont agree, although I do think it could have  done  better  in 
places - some of its responses  are repetitive and dont really appear to have considered  the 
content of e-mails Mr B sent.  But it offered to arrange a call-back when Mr B was finding it 
difficult to get in touch.  And each time it received an email  from him, it did explain it couldnt  
provide account  specific information in that format. I know Mr B feels strongly about this as 
he feels he wasnt asking for account  specific information. But I disagree as by asking 
whether it has received  his letter, Mr B was asking  for information relating to his account. 
Without accessing records relating to his account,  Metro Bank wouldnt have been able to 
provide an answer.  I can see it explained to Mr B that it couldnt complete customer 
verification by email  to gain access to his account.  Each time, Metro  Bank  provided  Mr B 
with the appropriate contact details.  I cant hold it responsible if Mr B decided  to continue  
emailing instead.   
So overall, having considered all the circumstances surrounding this complaint, Im satisfied 
Metro Banks decision  to not raise a chargeback was fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4204253