K820x#14complaint
Mr Q is unhappy with the service hes received from Starling Bank Limited (Starling)  after 
opening a bank account. Hes also unhappy the account wasnt closed when he asked  for it 
to be.
background
Mr Q opened an account with Starling. He says he was attracted by its advertised  features of 
being able to control the account and block gambling transactions. This is a feature Mr Q 
says he needed.
When the account was opened  Mr Q didnt  feel that the block  function was effective. He 
provided feedback  to Starling and ultimately  asked to close the account. 
The account  wasnt closed as requested. Mr Q paid funds  into the account and used these 
for gambling  transactions.  
Mr Q complained to Starling and asked for them to refund  the transactions. He says Starling 
had been negligent by not closing the account or providing an effective block.
Starling responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They acknowledged that Mr Q was 
unhappy with the functionality of the gambling  block and said they had provided feedback 
internally. However  they also said that Mr Q hadnt provided the relevant security  information 
requested in order for them  to close the account, so they werent responsible for the 
transactions that later took place.
Mr Q was unhappy with Starlings response  and approached this service.
Our investigator looked at everything  but didnt uphold the complaint. He said he couldnt ask 
Starling to change  their processes or functionality  of the gambling block  on their app. He 
also said that he didnt  think  Starling had been  unreasonable in not closing the account as 
the information they asked for wasnt provided  by Mr Q. Therefore he was unable  to hold 
Starling responsible for the money Mr Q later spent.
Mr Q didnt agree with the investigator and asked  for a final decision from an ombudsman
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the information  provided by both parties, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
After opening  his account, I can see that Mr Q contacted Starling on 23 March 2019 to give 
his views and suggestions on the gambling  block function on the app. He compared this to 
the functions another card provider  has. Starling thanked Mr Q for the feedback and said it 
would be passed  to the relevant team.
Ref: DRN49089482Mr Q subsequently  requested his account be closed. On 2 April 2019  Starling  asked Mr Q to 
provide his date of birth for security reasons in order to verify the account closure. However  
this wasnt provided, so the account  wasnt closed.
Mr Q contacted Starling  on 6 April 2019  to further  enquire about the gambling block. He said 
that he could turn it on and off so it wasnt very effective. After  the agent  said they would 
provide feedback, they asked if there was anything else they could help with and the chat 
was ended. Mr Q didnt raise any further request to close the account, or provide the 
information that had been requested previously in order  to do so.
After this Mr Q credited the account  and spent  over £4,000 on gambling transactions.
I acknowledge Mr Qs feelings around being  asked  his date of birth in order to close  the 
account. But I dont  think Starling has acted unreasonably in asking for this further 
information. Whilst the chat and request was via the app, Starling needed additional 
information in order to ensure the account  was correctly closed. 
Whilst I sympathise with the situation  Mr Q is in, he didnt provide the verification in order  to 
close the account. So I dont think Starling acted  unreasonably by not closing it. Therefore 
Im unable to hold Starling responsible for the money Mr Q later spent  on gambling 
transactions, or ask them to refund this or compensate him. 
Mr Q said one of his concerns was that the gambling block  wasnt  effective compared to 
other account providers,  so other  customers could face the same situation as he has found 
himself in. He feels that Starling are advertising a feature which isnt fit for purpose.
Mr Q hasnt sent us a copy of the advert  he is referring to. But Starling has an article  on their 
website which gives information about  the gambling  block. This talks about the ability  to 
block transactions by enabling the block. It also says that details of support helplines are 
given when removing  the block and when  trying to make payments to gambling 
establishments when the block is active.
I know Mr Q feels  very strongly about the features and functions  of the app, and that the 
account isnt for him. We arent the regulator  of Starling, thats the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  But I dont think Starling has provided an account or app which  has 
resulted in Mr Q being treated unfairly, so I cant ask them to change  this.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4908948