K820x#14complaint
Miss T says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Miss T took out a credit card with Lloyds in 1997. It seems likely she was sold PPI at the 
same time. The PPI wouldve helped cover  the repayments on her credit card for up to 12 
months at a time if she couldnt  work.
Miss T says she did want, ask for or need PPI. And she says she was self-employed,  so 
wouldnt have been able to benefit  from the unemployment cover  the policy gave.
The adjudicator who looked at Miss Ts complaint didnt think  it should  be upheld.  Miss T 
disagrees, so her complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here. 
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not certain when  the PPI was sold. Lloyds  only has records  dating back  to 2000. But I 
think its most likely  the PPI was sold at the same time the credit  card was taken out, and 
Miss T thinks  this is what happened  too. I dont have anything to suggest otherwise and this 
is the more usual time for PPI to be sold. 
Miss T says that she cant remember  much  about taking the PPI. She also says it wouldnt 
have been useful for her because she was self-employed and may not have benefitted from 
some of the cover. Im not surprised Miss T cant remember clearly what  happened during a 
sale so long ago. But Lloyds says Miss T wouldve had a clear  choice about whether to take 
the PPI at the time,  even  though it cant say how it was sold. And from this services  
knowledge of Lloyds sales processes at that time I think  its most  likely Miss T was given a 
clear choice. 
So on the limited  information Ive got, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Miss Ts 
knowledge or consent. Although Lloyds  doesnt know  for sure how the PPI was sold,  it has 
accepted it wouldve personally recommended the PPI to Miss T. This means  it needed to 
make sure it was right for her. Looking at what Miss T says of her circumstances at the time 
and the policy details Ive got, I think it was right for her. I say this because:  
Miss T was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been  affected by any of the 
terms that mightve made it more difficult for her to make a successful  claim.
Miss T didnt have any sick pay entitlement, so I think  the policy wouldve given her a 
useful benefit  if she was too ill to work.  
Ref: DRN47515232Sometimes PPI policies make it very difficult for self-employed  people to make  an 
unemployment claim. But Ive looked at the terms of Miss Ts policy and I dont think 
that was the case  here. 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the PPI was unaffordable  for Miss T. 
Lloyds also had a duty to make sure Miss T had all the clear information she needed to 
make her decision  about the PPI. Its possible Lloyds didnt give her all the clear information 
it shouldve done.  But I dont think clearer, or better,  information wouldve  made  Miss T act 
differently and not buy the policy, because I think its likely  she agreed to it and it was right 
for her. So I dont  think Miss T lost out as a result of anything Lloyds mightve done wrong. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4751523