Ref: DRN4105240complaint
Miss T says Yorkshire Building Society (Yorkshire) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  
policy.
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  taken out at a meeting alongside a mortgage in 2004. It gave 
Miss T cover for accident,  sickness  and unemployment.  She paid a monthly  amount for the policy.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. Miss T had a pre-existing medical condition  
(PEMC). She said that Yorkshire shouldve pointed out more  clearly the significant  features of the 
policy, including that PEMCs would not be covered.  Our adjudicator  felt it was unlikely that Miss T 
wouldve taken out the policy  if this exclusion had been clearly drawn  to her attention.
Yorkshire disagrees, so Miss Ts complaint has been passed to me to consider. Yorkshire says, in 
summary, that it was clearly  explained to Miss T that PEMCs wouldnt be covered and Miss T opted 
to take out the policy.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Miss T applied  for her mortgage in September 2004. In the application form,  there was a separate 
section for insurance.  There  were three options for PPI. She could take out the cover, decline it or say 
shed like to make  her own arrangements. Miss T said she was going  to make her own arrangements 
for cover. A few days  later,  Miss T took out PPI with Yorkshire, during a telephone call. 
Yorkshire no longer has a copy of the call recording, which isnt surprising  since the call happened 
around 15 years  ago.  Yorkshire has given us a copy of the call declaration that was in use at the 
time. Looking  at this declaration this appears to have doubled as a sales script. I can see the option 
to take or decline PPI was still available. If the consumer was applying for accident  and sickness 
cover the declaration form prompted the representative to say:
If you are choosing  accident  and sickness cover, it is important that you fully understand the terms 
relating to pre-existing  medical conditions. If you have  any existing or recurring  medical conditions,  
infirmity or disease  that you are aware  of, or a problem that you have been to a doctor for in the last 
12 months, you will not be able to claim  for that problem or any related condition.
I think  it likely  that the representative wouldve followed this script, because there is a tick alongside  
the section about PEMCs  which suggests to me the representative has gone through  the section with 
Miss T and ticked to indicate its been covered. 
I also think  Miss T wouldve understood she didnt  have  to take PPI, because  she didnt  take it when 
she completed the mortgage  application.  So, overall, I think Yorkshire made it clear that Miss T didnt 
have to take out the PPI.
Yorkshire didnt recommend the PPI to Miss T so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did 
have to make sure she got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for her and she wanted  
to buy it. Miss T said she wasnt given  enough information about the PPI to make an informed choice 
to buy it. 
Given what Miss Ts told us about her medical  condition, that it was diagnosed when she was a baby 
and she was seeing a specialist about  it a couple  of times a year and taking medication, I think  its 
likely she wouldve realised  it applied to her.
Ref: DRN4105240Following the call Miss T was sent a letter confirming the PPI had been set up. This asked her to 
check the information  that shed been given  over the phone and to make sure she agreed with what  
was recorded. This included the statement:
You have not undergone, in the last 12 months (or are not anticipating in the next 12 months)  any 
medical treatment, consultation or surgical  operation.
This statement appears to contradict what Miss T has told us about  her situation.  If what had been 
recorded by Yorkshire wasnt  correct, then I would have expected  Miss T to contact  it as soon as 
possible. It also suggests there was probably  some conversation about pre-existing medical  
conditions during  the phone  call. So having looked at all the available evidence, I currently think its 
likely Yorkshire did tell Miss T she wouldnt be able to make a claim if she wasnt able to work  
because of her medical condition and she chose to go ahead  with the PPI anyway.
Miss T said she wouldnt have taken PPI as she had a generous amount of sick pay cover from her 
public sector employer (six months worth at full pay and six months  worth at half).  She said it 
wouldnt have been worth it to her in her circumstances. However, her mortgage application, 
completed shortly before  she took out the PPI, records  that she is working for a different employer.  
However, even if Miss T did have this level of sick pay, I dont think it wouldve made the policy 
inappropriate for her. If she made a successful PPI claim,  it wouldve  paid out on top of her work 
benefits. It wouldve  provided her with long term protection for her mortgage repayments at what 
might be a difficult time for her financially if she wasnt working. It wouldve  also provided cover if she 
was made unemployed unexpectedly. So, I think  the cover couldve been useful for her.
The cost and benefit of the PPI looks  like it would have been discussed  during the telephone call. And 
the cost was also set out in the follow up letter. So I think Miss T wouldve known how much she 
would be paying for the PPI and the benefits it provided. I cant  see that it was unaffordable.
The other  information  about the PPI might not have been as clear as it should  have been but Miss T 
doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the other limits on or exclusions to the PPI cover. And 
I dont think theres anything  else that would  have put her off taking out the cover.
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Miss T off taking out the cover.  Based 
on what Ive seen  so far, I dont think Miss T was mis-sold this policy. 
my provisional  decision
Im currently  minded not to uphold this complaint.  
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4105240