K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Schroder Unit Trusts Limited  (the business) failed to carry out his 
instructions to transfer holdings  held by it in the Baillie Gifford UK Growth Fund  to a 
different fund provider.  
Mr E says because of this hes missed  the transfer  deadline and suffered a financial loss.  
background
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary he said:
On 4 September 2018, the business  wrote to Mr E, explaining that it could no 
longer hold his investment in the Baillie  Gifford UK Growth  Fund.  The letter  
explained his options including transferring to a different fund provider.  
Following an internal review, and customer feedback, the business felt its 
customers would benefit from transferring  their holdings  to its suggested third-
party provider and so enclosed a transfer form with its details  already  on the 
form. 
The letter also explained  that if the customer didnt respond  by the deadline  of 
31 October, their funds  would  be transferred to the business UK Equity Fund 
(the business default fund).
On 27 September  the business  sent a chaser letter to all its customers 
including Mr E. And on 19 October  it sent a second chaser letter.   
Although Mr E says he didnt  receive the instruction letter  until 18 October 
2019, and its possible there  were  issues  with the postal service  although 
hes seen no evidence  of any issues  its more likely than not Mr E received 
one of the earlier letters.    
Mr E says he called  the business  on 29 October  and made his intentions  
clear, the business is unable  to provide a call record and he doesnt know 
exactly which number he called. 
On 30 October, the business received a transfer form from Mr E, addressed  
to its suggested  third-party provider,  but with the details of a new different 
provider. And the form was sent to the business when it shouldve been sent 
to the suggested third-party provider direct  which is what the business did 
the next day. 
On 6 November  Mr Es provider of choice contacted the business to say it 
had sent its form to an incorrect address but was concerned about the 
deadline of 31 October.   
On 9 November  the business responded to the provider  notifying it that the 
deadline had passed, and that Mr Es holdings had been moved to the 
business default fund.    
On 23 November the business sent its last and final letter notifying Mr E (and 
its customers)  that they had until 6 December to transfer to another  fund or 
sell their holdings. On 10 December  the business  received instructions on 
behalf of Mr E from its suggested third-party provider. 
The business rejected the instructions because they were made too late and 
after the cut-off date.  And the remaining holdings transferred to the business 
default account. 
Ref: DRN42236452Overall, he doesnt think there  was a shortfall in the business customer  
service.  
Mr E disagreed with the investigators conclusion  and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
He maintains that the business is responsible  for the loss especially after the telephone  
conversation he had with it on 29 October when he made his intentions clear.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr E says, I dont think  the 
business behaved unreasonably. In other words, Im not persuaded it was the business fault 
that Mr E was unable  to transfer his holdings  on time to his desired provider.  
But before I explain  why, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Es frustration and 
strength of feeling  about this matter.  Hes provided detailed submissions to support the 
complaint, which  Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont  take the fact 
my findings  focus  on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by him and the business, and reach what I think  is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information  
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Despite what Mr E says, and notwithstanding the possible problems  with the postal  service,  
on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its more likely than not he received  at 
least one of the letters from the business  in good time  notifying him of its inability to 
maintain his holdings in the Bailie  Gifford  UK fund. 
In the circumstances I dont think theres any more the business couldve reasonably done to 
bring this issue to Mr Es attention. On the face of the evidence,  I think its possible that Mr E 
received one or more of the letters and failed to act upon its instructions immediately.  
I appreciate Mr E is unhappy about  changes to the terms and conditions of his investment. 
But in this instance, because of the changes to the business  terms and conditions,  it was 
obliged to notify its customers,  particularly given changes to the fund,  which on balance  Im 
satisfied it did in good time. Im satisfied that the business wasnt required to obtain Mr Es 
consent or acquiescence  before implementing these changes. 
I appreciate Mr E says that he called the business on 29 October 2018 and explained his 
intentions to transfer his holdings to a third-party  provider,  but the business cant  verify this 
and Mr E cant say which number he called. 
Ref: DRN42236453But regardless of whether (or not) he did call, the business made very clear the procedure 
and process that Mr E needed to follow  including filling out the correct form, with the 
correct details, and correctly addressed to the third-party provider. I note it even included a 
copy of the transfer  form with details of the suggested third-party provider it thought would 
be good for its customers. But Mr E failed to provide his instructions in the prescribed 
manner acceptable  to the business. 
On balance I dont  think that Mr Es form(s)   whether filled out by him personally or on his 
behalf  was done correctly or sent to the correct business. Im mindful that he submitted a 
form addressed to the business  suggested  third-party provider, but with details filled out for 
a totally different business and sent to the wrong  address. I cant blame the business for 
these errors.  
Im mindful Mr Es provider of choice wrote to the business to notify  the business of its error 
and concerns about missing the deadline. I note in due course the business wrote back  to 
say the deadline had been passed  and that his investment  was being moved to the default 
fund. I dont think the business  was required to do anymore in the circumstances  and note it 
wasnt the business fault that he missed  the deadline. 
In summary,  I dont think the business was wrong to reject Mr Es application  when it was 
made incorrectly or passed  the business deadline.  And for the same reasons I dont think 
the business was wrong  to reject the December 2018 application  which was ultimately 
submitted passed  the deadline. 
I appreciate Mr E will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion  as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what he wants to hear.  But on the face of the 
available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4223645