K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that a loan agreement was mis-sold to her by Loans 2 Go Limited  and that 
the early settlement figure  that its quoted is too high.
background
Miss C entered  into a fixed  sum loan agreement with Loans 2 Go in November 2017. The 
amount of the loan was £650  for a term of 18 months and the monthly repayment was 
£147.26. She complained in early 2018 that the terms of the loan werent explained to her, 
she wasnt given an option  about the term of the loan, she had to discuss  and sign the 
agreement with other customers in the same room and about the interest  that was included  
in an early settlement  figure. She wasnt satisfied with Loans  2 Gos response  to her 
complaint so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She concluded that 
there was sufficient information on the documents that Miss C signed  to make her aware  of 
the terms and duration of the loan agreement   and, if she hadnt wanted  to continue with 
the agreement, she had the right to withdraw from it. And she said that Loans  2 Go had 
calculated the early settlement figure  in line with the statutory rebate calculations   so she 
couldnt ask it to do any more.
Miss C has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that the interest  rate is extortionate and it feels as if the early settlement figure 
includes interest for the months after shell have paid off the loan. She says that shes  happy 
to pay a reasonable settlement figure but that, due to Loans 2 Gos unprofessionalism, the 
loan was made to her unfairly. She also says the loan shouldn't  have been made to her 
because she had a poor credit  report.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Miss C has now complained  that Loans 2 
Go didnt properly  asses whether the loan was affordable  for her and that it shouldnt  have 
lent to her because of her poor credit history. But that didnt form part of her original 
complaint to this service   and Loans  2 Go hasnt been given  the opportunity to respond to 
it. So Im unable to consider that issue as part of this complaint. If Miss C does want to 
complain about  it she should first complaint  to Loans  2 Go. And if shes  not satisfied with its 
response she may be able to complain to this service  but that would be a separate  
complaint.
Miss C was provided with  and signed  - pre-contract credit  information about the loan in 
November 2017.  It set out information  about the loan  including  the amount of the loan, the 
total amount repayable, the interest rate (including  the APR),  the term of the loan, the 
amount and number  of repayments and her right to withdraw from the loan. Miss C also 
signed the loan agreement which contained  terms that were  consistent with those set out in 
the pre-contract  credit  information. Immediately above her signature on the loan agreement, 
it says:
Read full agreement including Terms  of the Agreement overleaf before signing.  This 
is a Credit Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  Sign it only if you 
want to be legally bound by its terms. 
Ref: DRN41914922So I consider that Miss C was provided with the relevant information about  the loan before 
she signed the loan agreement  and it was then her decision to sign the agreement. And by 
doing so she agreed to the terms and conditions set out in the loan  including the rate of 
interest and the term of the loan. The rate of interest  charged  by a lender  is a commercial 
decision  and this service doesnt  normally interfere  with a lenders legitimate commercial  
decision. And I see no reason to interfere with Loans 2 Gos commercial decision about the 
rate of interest that it was charging Miss C in these circumstances. The term of the loan is 
clearly set out in both documents as being 18 months  so I consider that Miss C was aware  
 or ought  to have been aware - of the term of the loan. And if she didnt want  a loan with an 
18 months term she shouldnt have signed  the loan agreement. 
If Miss C wasnt comfortable discussing the loan or signing the agreement  in the 
circumstances that were available to her at that time, she shouldnt have done so  and I 
consider that it would be reasonable to expect her to raise any concerns about those 
circumstances with Loans 2 Go at the time. Miss C had also had previous loans from Loans 
2 Go so I consider it to be reasonable to expect that she wouldve  had an understanding  of 
how the loan worked.  
Both the pre-contract credit information and loan agreement refer to Miss Cs right to 
withdraw from the loan.  But Ive seen no evidence to show that she contacted Loans 2 Go to 
withdraw from the loan during the withdrawal period  or that she took any other action to 
show that she was unhappy with the loan arrangements until after shed  asked for an early 
settlement figure.  
Loan repayments of this kind are usually made up of interest  and capital. To start with the 
capital amount outstanding is at its highest  so the interest on that amount is also at its 
highest  and the repayments are made up largely of interest. But as the repayments  
continue, the capital  amount outstanding reduces so the interest  on that amount also 
reduces and the repayments include larger amounts of capital. When Miss C asked for an 
early settlement figure,  very little of the capital  on her loan had been  repaid. Loans 2 Go 
says that it calculated the early settlement figure  in accordance with the formula  set out in 
the applicable regulations   and it provided  Miss C with a copy of its calculation. Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that it calculated  the early  settlement figure  
incorrectly. And I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to 
calculate the figure in a different way. And Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence  
to show that Loans 2 Go has acted incorrectly in its dealings with Miss C. So I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to take any action in response  to her 
complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4191492