K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi 
Finance, are being unreasonable asking him to pay the outstanding balance on his finance  
agreement after the car it financed  was declared a total loss. 
background
Mr H has been represented at times by Mrs H but for ease, and because  Mr H is named  on 
the finance agreement,  I will refer to him in this decision.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  for these reasons:
Mr H acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase 
agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and as a result our service  is 
able to look into complaints about  it.  
When a vehicle is declared a total loss the insurance will often cover the cost of the 
car itself but not the amount owing  on the finance agreement. That difference  is often 
covered by GAP  insurance. But where  that is not taken out the consumer is 
responsible for the balance.
Mr Hs accountability for that shortfall is clearly set out in his finance agreement. I 
dont agree that the terms of that agreement are ambiguous.
Term  5.3 of Mr Hs finance agreement  said, If the vehicle is lost, damaged  or 
destroyed so as to become a  total loss you must pay  such sum as will equal 
the amount calculated  in accordance with term 8.2. I think its clear the vehicle was a 
total loss and term 8.2 should be applied to calculate the sum due.
Term  8.2 sets out the items to be included in that payment and includes the 
remaining unpaid instalments. Im persuaded that VWFS have applied this term 
correctly when calculating  the balance due under the agreement.
Im not persuaded that there  is anything in the terms of the contract  that places an 
obligation on VWFS to provide a replacement vehicle. 
So, I dont think VWFS have done anything wrong here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN42631152Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4263115