K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with Go Car Credit 
Limited (GCC) has not been of satisfactory  quality.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in June 2020. In that decision I said that 
unless I was provided with further  evidence, I was expecting not to uphold this complaint. An 
extract from that provisional decision is set out below:
Mrs B took receipt of a used car in November 2018.  She financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with GCC. On 22 November the exhaust failed and Mrs B took it to the 
dealership. They repaired the exhaust but Mrs B says that repair  failed and the car 
subsequently wouldnt start and developed a clutch problem.
Mrs B wanted to reject the car and it was returned to the dealership on 11 December 2018. 
They say the car started first time and they couldnt  find anything wrong with the exhaust or 
the clutch. They returned the car to Mrs B and GCC subsequently  defaulted the agreement 
and terminated  it when Mrs B stopped paying.
Mrs B complained to GCC but they rejected  her claim. They  said there was no evidence that 
the initial repair to the exhaust had failed and there was nothing else wrong with the car 
when the dealership looked at it.
So Mrs B referred her complaint to this service. Our adjudicator thought GCC should provide 
evidence that the car didnt have a fault. But when he didnt receive that he thought  it would 
be fair for them to accept  the rejection of the car as he thought  Mrs B would not have 
stopped paying for it if it hadnt  developed a fault.  
GCC didnt agree with the adjudicators view. They said there was no evidence of a fault with 
the car and in those circumstances they could not accept that it should be rejected. They  
therefore asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the adjudicators view. I know that will disappoint  Mrs B so please 
let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN45923862Mrs B acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then GCC, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to 
Mrs B. The car here was around five years old and had already completed 19,000 miles.
The general position is the consumer  must  show there is a fault with the car before  there  can 
be a consideration  about  whether the fault was present at the point of supply when GCC 
were responsible for its quality.
Im not persuaded that Mrs B has provided any evidence, other  than her own testimony, that 
the car had a fault. Im persuaded  it probably didnt because:
the dealership  checked the car and could not find anything wrong with the clutch or 
exhaust and the car clearly started as Ive read they drove it back  to Mrs B and 
dropped the keys through her letter box; 
Mrs B hasnt  provided evidence of the fault;
Mrs B completed about  3,000  in about the first month of ownership. Thats 
considerably higher  than average mileage  and I dont think that would have  been  
likely to be possible if there  were  faults with the car.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im not persuaded there was a fault with the car or that the 
car wasnt successfully repaired. So Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Mrs B said that her work  would have records of when she didnt attend due to problems with 
the car and GCC accepted my provisional  decision.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not been provided with sufficient evidence to suggest there was anything wrong with the 
car. Even if records of Mrs B not attending work  were  provided, I dont think  that would be 
sufficient to show a fault with the vehicle. So, Ive not been persuaded to change  my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN45923863Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4592386