K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Haven  Insurance Company Limited  unfairly increased his 
premium following an accident and several changes  of car on his motor policy.  
background
Mr M was involved in an accident on 4 December 2017 where his car was written off. He 
made a claim and Haven  paid that along  with a claim  from the other driver. This meant 
Haven couldnt  recoup  its costs from the other driver, which meant this incident and the 
claims were  classed  as a fault claim on Mr Ms insurance record. 
Mr M then substituted a different car (car B) on this policy on 30 December 2017, which was 
in a higher group, risk wise to his original car (car A), so Haven charged him an additional 
premium of £212.16 (including  the £25 admin fee). Mr M changed his car (car C) on the 
policy again on 19 March  2018 which again  was in a higher group  risk wise,  so Haven 
charged him a further additional  premium  of £58.92 (including the admin  fee of £25). Mr M 
then changed  his car (car D) on the policy yet another time on 20 March, this time car D was 
in a lower group, risk wise so Haven merely charged him the admin  fee of £25.
Then on 21 March 2018 Mr M had repaired his original car, car A and he wanted that car 
back on the policy, which was back in a lower group, risk wise so Haven again only charged 
him the £25 admin fee. 
By this stage, Mr M said the premium increases were too expensive so he cancelled his 
policy and found  insurance elsewhere. However, Haven said because  it had paid out on the 
accident in December 2017, Mr M owed it the remaining monthly premiums to the end of the 
policy year.  
Mr M didnt  think  this was fair and brought his complaint to us. The adjudicator  didnt think  
Haven had done anything wrong. Mr M didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
First, as Mr M hasnt  complained about it, Im not considering Havens decision to pay 
Mr Ms claim  and that of the other  driver following the accident in December 2017.  If Mr M 
wants to complain about that, hell have to first complain to Haven  about  it and if he remains  
dissatisfied then he can bring that complaint to us.
However, as Haven has paid Mr Ms claim and that of the other  driver,  its classed  as fault 
claim on his insurance policy, which would have only increased  Mr Ms premium if he had 
renewed his policy with Haven in September  2018,  which he didnt  do. Mr M cancelled his 
policy before  it expired  on 30 September 2018  and found another motor elsewhere.  So none 
of the premium increases Haven asked Mr M to pay were to do with how it recorded this 
accident on Mr Ms insurance records.
Here Mr M has complained that his premium rose because he changed  the car to be 
covered under this policy numerous  times. He says that led him to cancel this policy and 
Ref: DRN49566302therefore he doesnt believe he needs to pay Haven the rest of the premium instalments for 
the rest of the policy year as he had a policy with another  insurer for part of that time.
However that isnt how motor insurance works. Since Mr M was involved in an accident and 
Haven paid his claim and that of the other driver, the whole years premium must now be 
paid by Mr M. This is because  when  we take out a motor policy  we must pay the premium 
upfront for that policy year. Obviously many people  find difficult  to manage.  So, as by law we 
must have  a motor insurance policy to drive a car, the insurance industry  permits  us to pay 
the premium by instalments. But that doesnt mean  the cover  provided by the insurer is done 
on by a month-by-month basis, it isnt. Its done on an annual basis.  In effect the finance 
company though which most payment of premiums  are organised,  pays  the whole premium  
to the insurer  and then has the policyholder  pay it back in instalments with interest. 
Mr Ms policy with Haven  just like every  other  motor  policy says in the event of a claim being 
made on the policy, the whole premium is payable. Mr M in buying a motor  policy  asked 
Haven to cover him for the costs of an accident amongst other things. Thats  why he paid the 
premium. The accident happened,  Haven paid the costs  of it on Mr Ms behalf so therefore 
the whole  premium now must be paid by Mr M.
Therefore I dont think Haven has done anything wrong in asking Mr M to pay the rest of the 
premium due given  he agreed to pay the premium by instalments.
The reason  Mr Ms premium increased  following the accident was due to the numerous 
changes of car Mr M asked Haven  to substitute on his policy. There  were four different cars 
involved, Car B and car C were in more expensive  groups (as the adjudicator explained her 
view) than Mr Ms original  car, car A. And car D didnt make  any change  to the premium. All 
four changes though attracted an admin fee of £25 per time, which was £100  in admin fees 
And Mr M made three changes all in the month  of March 2018 over three days  which 
obviously didnt help either.
When the car thats insured is changed, that also changes the risk the insurer  has to insure. 
As two of the cars were  in a more expensive  group  than Mr Ms original car, that meant 
Mr Ms premium  increased. As the adjudicator explained, Haven didnt do anything wrong in 
increasing the amount of the premium for these changes. Haven along with every other 
motor insurer is entitled to look at the premium levels when the car insured is changed. And 
Haven has shown us it rated all the different  cars Mr M wanted to insure  in accordance  with 
its underwriting guide. This meant it did it fairly,  as this is what  it would have charged  anyone 
else with Mr Ms profile and type of car.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4956630