K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to Allianz as the seller in my 
decision.
Miss P says Allianz mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a charge card that Miss P took out in 1991.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ps complaint and Ill explain why. 
Allianz had to make Miss P aware that the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  I cant be certain  what was said when Allianz  sold the PPI to Miss P so 
Ive based my decision on the information available from the time.
Allianz has provided a copy  of the application form Miss P completed when she applied for 
her card and PPI. The form had a separate section for PPI where  the option to take the 
policy has been selected. The form has also been  signed in agreement with the information 
on it. So with the information available I think its likely Allianz  made it clear the PPI was 
optional and Miss P chose to have it.
From what  Ive seen I dont think Allianz  recommend  the PPI to Miss P so it didnt  have to 
check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss P got the information  she 
needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Miss P about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take it out knowing the other means she had of making her 
repayments, which included sick pay, savings and help from family. The PPI would have 
paid out in addition to Miss Ps sick pay, and for longer. It would also have allowed Miss P to 
keep her savings in place to be used  towards any other essential expenses  she may have 
had. And while  Miss Ps family  would  have wanted  to help, their ability  to would have been 
dependent on their circumstances  at the time which could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Ps circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. And it looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
 
Ive thought about everything Miss P has said, but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN46341532 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2019.  
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4634153