K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.  
background
In June 2017, Mr B took out a loan of £200  with Satsuma. The loan was repayable  in six, 
monthly instalments  of £63.20. In November 2017,  Mr B repaid the loan early.  
Mr B says that he couldnt afford  to repay  the loan and that Satsuma shouldnt have given it 
to him. He says that his credit  file shows that his finances were in a mess and that he had 
other loans,  late payments and frozen  accounts. Mr B wants a refund of interest and 
charges, with interest and negative information  removed  from his credit file. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Bs complaint. She didnt think  that Satsuma was 
wrong to give the loan to Mr B. Mr B didnt agree. He said that he didnt think Satsuma had 
treated him fairly. Mr B said that his credit  file at the time showed that he had a large  number 
of loans and other debts.  Mr B said that Satsuma  should have taken that into account when 
it decided to lend to him. He said that his job had been made redundant and he was on a 
very low income at the time. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN46460632But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
When Mr B applied  for the loan, he told Satsuma that his income  was £2,050  and his 
outgoings, including housing costs, financial commitments and other expenditure, were 
£1,400. So, it appeared that Mr B could afford  to repay £63.20 a month for this loan.  
I note that Mr B says that his job had been  made redundant but Ive seen from one of his 
bank statements that he appeared to have an income of around the amount he told Satsuma 
at the relevant time.  Bearing in mind this was Mr Bs first loan with Satsuma, I think that it 
was entitled to rely on what Mr B said about his income and outgoings. 
Mr B has referred to his credit file and says that it would have shown that he had other debt. 
Satsuma carried out a credit check.  The information  a prospective lender can see from a 
credit check  isnt in the same detail as Mr B can see in his own credit report. The credit 
check Satsuma carried out didnt show information  that should have led it to refuse to lend to 
Mr B. 
Ref: DRN46460633In the particular circumstances here, I think that the checks Satsuma carried out before 
lending to Mr B were proportionate. Given the repayment amounts, what  was apparent  about 
Mr Bs circumstances at the time and the fact that this was his first loan with Satsuma, I dont 
think it wouldve been proportionate for Satsuma to ask Mr B for the amount  of information 
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable.  There wasnt  anything in the information 
Mr B provided or the information Satsuma shouldve been aware of, which  meant it wouldve 
been proportionate for it to start verifying what Mr B said. 
 
Considering everything, I dont think that Satsuma was wrong to lend to Mr B. 
my final decision
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr B but for the reasons given above, Im not upholding  his 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4646063