K820x#14complaint
Miss C is unhappy Legal  & General Insurance Limited (Legal & General)  has declined a 
claim she made under her buildings insurance  policy.
background
Miss C has explained  that in February 2018 her property was damaged  as a result of a 
storm. She said that the roof of her home was damaged, as well the living  room  ceiling 
collapsing, and the conservatory  letting  in water when it rained.
Legal & General told Miss C it wasnt able to accept her claim. It said it had looked  at the 
weather conditions around  the time of the loss and there werent  any storm conditions 
present. 
Miss C felt Legal & Generals decision  was unfair.  She explained  that Legal & General hadnt 
sent anyone to inspect the damage  to her property to decide  whether it was covered under 
the policy. And she provided  two quotations for work needed to repair her property  on of 
which said the damage was caused  by a storm.
Our investigator reviewed  this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said that 
Miss Cs insurance policy covered her for damage  caused by particular events  including 
storm damage. But in this instance she said it hadnt  been  shown  the damage was caused 
by one of the events  listed in the policy. She noted  there were no storm conditions 
surrounding the time of the loss. So, the damage  couldnt have been caused by a storm. 
And, she explained Miss C didnt  have accidental damage cover  under the policy.  And 
because of this the claim couldnt be considered under this section either.
Miss C didnt agree. She said she was provided with a quotation which  said the damage  was 
caused by a storm. And she noted  that no one from Legal & General had visited  her property 
to inspect it. 
Because Miss C didnt  agree  this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ive explained why below.
Ive looked at Miss Cs policy documents to see what cover  she has under her buildings 
insurance policy. And, I can see Miss C has cover  under her policy  for damage caused  by 
specific events listed within it. So for Miss Cs claim to be successful she would need to 
show the damage to her home was caused  by one of these events.
Miss C says the damage at her property  was caused by a storm. And this is one of the 
events listed in Miss Cs policy as covered. So, Ive needed to decide whether Legal & 
General has acted fairly in saying Miss Cs loss doesnt fall within  this event.
To do this I looked at what the policy defines  a storm as. It says a storm is;
Ref: DRN46691402Wind speeds with gusts of at least  47mph/75kmh  or torrential rainfall  at a rate of at least  
25mm/one inch per hour or snow to a depth  of at least one foot/30cm in 24 hours  or hail of 
such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
For Miss Cs claim to be covered  under  the storm peril in the policy the weather at the time 
the loss happened would  need to meet this definition. 
Legal & General has said the weather in February  2018 didnt meet  the above definition.  So, 
the claim couldnt be considered as a storm. And, it said there was no other  event within the 
policy that would cover Miss Cs loss. 
Ive carefully thought  about whether Legal  & General has acted fairly in what it has said. 
And, I think it has. So, Im not asking it to do anything more.
I say this because  the definition  in Miss Cs policy of what constitutes a storm is reasonable 
and in line with other  definitions  Ive seen. Ive looked at the weather records for 
February 2018. And whilst  I understand Miss Cs contractor said the damage was caused  by 
a storm, the weather didnt reach  the above definition on any day that month. Because  the 
weather conditions at the time of the loss didnt meet this definition, Im satisfied there wasnt  
a storm at the time of the loss. And because  of this the claim isnt covered under the storm 
peril. 
Ive also looked  at the remaining specified  events in Miss Cs policy  to see whether its likely 
the loss could fall within one of these. And there  isnt any other event that would be relevant 
here. So, Im satisfied Legal & General acted fairly and reasonably in its decision to decline 
Miss Cs claim. 
Miss C has said no one came to inspect her property when she made her claim.  I can 
understand why this has concerned her. But, if Legal & General can tell the claim isnt 
covered under the policy without visiting it, I wouldnt expect it to come and inspect the 
damage. It was clear  from the weather records the claim wasnt covered, and Miss C doesnt  
have accidental damage cover either. So, Legal  & General didnt do anything wrong here. 
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Legal & General Insurance Limited  to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4669140