K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unreasonably appointed Law of Property Act 
receivers on his buy-to-let  mortgage  and has treated him unfairly  particularly in view of his 
serious health problems. He also complains  that Barclays recorded incorrect information on 
his credit file and that this led to an application  to port another  mortgage to be declined.
background
In October  2017, Barclays appointed receivers to manage Mr Ts property  when he didnt 
repay his buy-to-let mortgage in April 2017 as agreed. When  it received evidence  that Mr T 
had an offer from another lender to refinance his borrowing,  pending a dispute in respect of 
the mortgaged  property being  resolved in court, it told the receivers  to step down. Mr T 
repaid the mortgage in March 2018.
Mr T considers Barclays has acted unfairly for a number  of reasons, including:
Barclays shouldnt have phoned  him about this matter.
He received only one letter from Barclays about this matter, although it says it sent more. 
It should have  sent at least one letter by recorded delivery.
There was a breach  of confidentiality  by his Premier manager  in passing information  
about Mr T to Barclays mortgage department, which led to the receivers  being 
appointed.
Barclays instructed receivers despite  knowing that he had an offer from another lender 
and the serious  health problems he was experiencing  at the time.
Barclays knew that the tenants of the property  had poor health.  It and the receivers 
actions meant they moved out.
He had to pay the receivers.  Barclays then unfairly debited the amount from the 
mortgage and recorded that on his credit file. The debt was to the receivers,  not 
Barclays.
In 2019, Mr T applied to port a buy-to-let mortgage with another lender to another  property 
he owned outright.  But that application was declined. So he had to use the sale proceeds to 
repay the mortgage and incurred an early repayment charge (ERC) of £11,889.36.  When he 
checked his credit file, he found out that Barclays had incorrectly  recorded adverse 
information on his credit file in respect of his buy-to-let  mortgage. Mr T wants Barclays  to 
refund the ERC.
Subject to any further submissions, I issued  a provisional decision forms, which forms part of 
this decision. I provisionally found:
appointment of receivers
I dont consider it was fair or reasonable for Barclays to appoint receivers in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I say this because I consider it likely that Mr T told both his 
Premier manager and his Barclays mortgage  adviser that he had a mortgage offer in place 
and that he was suffering from some very serious health problems, including  recovering from 
Ref: DRN42896142an operation. I say this as Mr T says he told those members of staff about his circumstances  
 and that is supported by the statements we have from them.
I dont agree with Mr Ts points that the members of staff should not have passed any 
information to Barclays mortgage department as they owed him a duty of confidentiality. 
That is because they were all employees  of Barclays. So when he told them  anything, he 
was effectively telling Barclays.  They were entitled to share that information where relevant. 
The mistake  was in not passing all of the relevant information to the mortgage  department.  If 
they had done so, I am satisfied that Barclays would not have appointed receivers.  I say this 
as when it found out the correct position  regarding the mortgage offer and Mr Ts health it 
removed the receivers.
The first thing to put things right is to refund all costs that were  incurred  by the receivers   
with interest. Mr T says he paid the receiver directly as well as Barclays adding  its costs to 
his mortgage.  He will need to provide evidence of this for Barclays  to refund those amounts 
to him. Barclays should let me know if it hasnt added any receivers costs to the mortgage
Any rent paid to the receiver is usually passed to the lender  so it will have reduced  the 
mortgage balance.  But Barclays  should tell me if the rent has not been passed  from the 
receiver and make sure that Mr T is refunded  all costs related to the appointment  of the 
receivers and that he has had the benefit of any rent that was paid.
Mr T says he also lost his tenants because  of the appointment  of the receivers.  I know he 
feels very strongly that is why they left. But I have no evidence to support what he says.  
There could be a number  of other reasons  why they chose to leave. So I am not awarding 
any compensation for this loss.
I would add for completeness that Barclays is not required  to send letters  by recorded 
delivery. And it is entitled to try and contact a customer  by phone where an account  is 
overdue.
I will deal with my award for distress and inconvenience below.
credit file information
Barclays has already  accepted  it incorrectly  recorded that Mr T was five months in arrears 
on his mortgage.  I understand it has already corrected  Mr Ts credit file. But Mr T says that 
incorrect information caused his application to port another mortgage to a different property 
to be declined. As a result, he says he needed  to pay an ERC to the lender.
Mr T has given me evidence that he was porting a buy-to-let mortgage  to an unencumbered 
property in late 2019. He has given me evidence that the application was declined and of the 
ERC he paid. He has also shown that he had previously made successful  applications to the 
same lender  before the incorrect information was recorded on his credit file  and he had the 
mortgage he wanted to port. And other  than the incorrect information,  there  is no adverse 
information on his credit file.
After carefully considering  the evidence we have, I consider it is likely that the incorrect 
information recorded by Barclays was the only reason why Mr Ts application to port the 
mortgage was declined. So it was Barclays mistake which  led to the porting application 
being declined.  I therefore need to consider the financial loss that caused Mr T.
Ref: DRN42896143He has given me evidence that he had to pay an ERC of £11,889.36. But he has also not 
had to pay the interest on that mortgage  from 13 December 2019 until 31 December 2022  
when the fixed  rate was due to end. That is 36 months of payments at £542.45 - £19,528.20. 
So, he has paid less overall than if the mortgage  had continued for the remaining fixed  rate 
term. Even if I accept that he has had an unexpected upfront cost, rather than being spread 
over three years, it is difficult to see that he is worse off overall.
We also dont know what might have  happened between now and the end of the fixed  rate 
period. Mr T might have  incurred the ERC in any event. So I dont consider that Barclays 
should refund the ERC. I think it should pay Mr T compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused  and I will deal with that below.
compensation 
I understand all of the points that Mr T has made but I dont have the power  to penalise 
Barclays where it has acted unfairly  or unreasonably. I have to follow  the rules that we 
operate under. They say I can make:
a money award  may be such amount as the Ombudsman considers  to be fair compensation 
for one or more  of the following:
(1) financial loss (including  consequential or prospective loss);  or
(2) pain and suffering;  or
(3) damage to reputation;  or
(4) distress or inconvenience;
whether or not a court  would award  compensation.
I have already considered the financial loss above. That leaves  an award for the pain and 
suffering, damage  to reputation  and distress or inconvenience Mr T has suffered as a result 
of this matter. Having considered what Mr T has said,  think  Barclays actions  have caused  
him all of those things. But I can only make an award for the impact  on him  not anyone 
else, including his family and his tenants. And I would  reiterate  that I cant  penalise Barclays.
Mr T has provided  evidence to show the number of medical problems he was suffering with 
at the time in question  including that he was recovering from a recent very serious  
operation. Ive already found  that Barclays were or ought to have been aware of that. Mr T 
says, and I accept, it caused  him a great deal of pain and stress at a time when he was 
meant to be recuperating  and I have taken that into account. I accept the worry he was 
caused by potentially losing his property  and incurring the associated costs  at what was 
already a difficult time for him.
The receivers were appointed on 3 October 2017.  Mr T appears to have become aware of 
the issue on 6 October  and spoke to Barclays on 6, 10 and 12 October. Barclays  removed 
the receivers on 18 October. So the issue was resolved  within two weeks  of Mr T becoming 
aware of it  I have  taken  that into account  in my award. 
Mr T subsequently  spoke to Barclays to set out his plans. Im not awarding compensation for 
that as it was a reasonable for Barclays to want to understand  his intentions  as the term on 
the mortgage had ended  some time ago.
Mr T will also have  been  caused stress  and inconvenience  by the incorrect  information on 
his credit file and the trouble he experienced in sorting it out.
Ref: DRN42896144Looking at everything that happened,  there was a substantial amount of pain,  suffering, 
distress and inconvenience  along with damage to Mr Ts reputation  with the incorrect  
adverse information  being  recorded on his credit  file. Not to downplay  the impact  on Mr T, 
but the issue with the receivers was resolved in a relatively short  space of time.  Overall, and 
listening carefully to everything  that Mr T has said about how this matter has affected him, I 
consider it would be fair for Barclays to pay Mr T £1,500 to reflect  what  happened with both 
the receivers and the credit  file.
So I proposed that Barclays  should:
Refund any of the receivers  costs it added  to Mr Ts mortgage along  with any receivers  
costs that Mr T paid directly where  he can provide  evidence to show the payment was 
made.
If any rent payments made  to the receiver were not paid to the mortgage, pay those 
amounts to Mr T.
Pay interest on any of the above  amounts that were added to the mortgage  at the 
mortgage interest rate from the date added to the mortgage  and then at 8% simple  
interest per year from the date the mortgage was repaid until date of settlement. 
Any of the above amounts paid directly  by Mr T should receive interest at 8% simple  per 
year from date of payment to date of settlement.
Pay Mr T £1,500 for any pain,  suffering,  damage  to reputation,  distress  and 
inconvenience caused by these matters.
Barclays accepted  my provisional findings.  It said that it applied a total of £802 of receivers 
costs to the mortgage. And that of £1,760.23 was received in rent during the period the 
receiver was instructed, but only £1,549.01  was paid to the account. It said that was a 
difference of £111.02  but I make it £211.22.
Mr T responded to make a number of points, including:
The amount  awarded was insufficient  and Barclays is being let off lightly.  Barclays  will 
still behave in the same manner if it isnt penalised. The pressure and stress on him 
and his family was indescribable.
My provisional decision did not take into account that Mr T lost the 100% tax relief on the 
interest paid on the mortgage. And he had also lost the opportunity  to invest the sale 
proceeds of the property as he had to use those  funds  to repay the mortgage  that he 
could not port. 
I explained to Mr T that my understanding was that HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) 
position on tax relief for mortgage interest  payments has been phased  out and that from 
April 2020 he would  only receive a tax credit  of 20% on any mortgage interest paid, which 
will be offset against his tax bill. I said I was happy  to consider any other evidence to show  
the exact tax loss that Mr T would suffer  and set out the type of information I would need to 
see. Mr T said he accepted my explanation  regarding the tax position.  
Ref: DRN42896145my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
appointment of receivers
It is no longer in dispute that Barclays was wrong  to appoint receivers.  It has agreed  to 
refund all costs associated with that.
I note there  are some discrepancies with the figures  supplied by Barclays.  I would ask that it 
checks those figures  before settling with Mr T  if he chooses to accept my decision.
I do not have sufficient evidence to say that the tenants left the property because of the 
appointment of the receivers. So I wont be asking Barclays  to pay Mr T the rent he says he 
lost because of that. After  reviewing everything  in respect of the appointment of the 
receivers, I cant see any reason to change the decision I reached in my provisional 
decision.
I will address the impact on Mr T and what  I consider to be fair compensation for that below.
credit file
It is not in dispute  that Barclays recorded incorrectly that Mr T had been  in arrears on his 
mortgage. That information was showing on his credit file when he applied  to port an existing 
mortgage with another  lender to another property he owned.  That application was declined.  I 
still consider that it is more likely  than not that the application was declined solely because of 
the information recorded incorrectly by Barclays. I say that as taking into account what  we 
knew about Mr Ts credit history and his previous record there  was no reason for the 
application to be declined other  that the adverse information recorded by Barclays.
As a result, Mr T had to use the proceeds of the sale to repay the mortgage and an ERC  of 
£11,889.36 was applied.  I know Mr T feels  strongly  that the ERC would be refunded.  But I 
need to consider whether  this has caused him a financial loss  and what is fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of this case.
Although Mr T had to pay £11,889.36,  he has saved  36 months  of payments at £542.45. 
That equals  £19,528.20.  So he will pay £7,638.84  less than he would have  had he continued 
to pay the mortgage interest. I accept that Mr T will have lost the ability to claim tax relief or 
tax credits under the new system. But after looking carefully at the amount he could claim, I 
still find it difficult to see he has suffered a loss overall. The cost of the ERC  is less than the 
total amount of interest  payments he would have  had to make  over the remaining fixed  rate 
period  even  taking  into account tax relief/credits.
I also accept that Mr T has lost the ability to invest the funds that he had to use to repay  the 
mortgage instead of porting it. But there was nothing to prevent Mr T taking another 
mortgage if that is what he wished to do. I note that Barclays agreed to remove  the adverse 
information on 5 December 2019  (and it tells me it had actually done  so on 4 December 
2019). We told Mr T that the same day. That was before the mortgage  was repaid and the 
ERC incurred on 13 December. Although it was late in the house selling process,  Mr T could 
still have let his lender  know  that Barclays had agreed to remove the adverse information.  
Further, on 30 January  2020 we told Mr T that Barclays had removed the adverse 
Ref: DRN42896146information and Mr T confirmed he knew that. There  was also nothing to prevent Mr T 
checking his credit file.
The mortgage where Mr T paid the ERC  had a six-month  window  to port the mortgage, in 
which case the ERC would be refunded. I understand that Mr T might not have been aware 
of this. But I note that he was using the services  of a mortgage  broker  for this transaction.  
And bearing  in mind  the amount Mr T is claiming  as a loss, I think it is reasonable to say that 
there were other steps he could have explored with the lender that applied the ERC once he 
found out the adverse  information had been removed.
We also dont know if Mr T would  have repaid the mortgage in any event at some  point 
during the tie-in period  and incurred the ERC. 
Overall, and for the reasons  I have explained, I dont consider it would be fair and 
reasonable to tell Barclays to refund the ERC in the circumstances of this case. I will 
consider the impact on Mr T of this part of his complaint below.
compensation
Ive listened carefully  to everything Mr T has said about the impact  of this matter  on him. I 
agree that this matter as a whole  have caused  him an enormous amount of stress and worry 
at a time when he had a lot of health  problems and was recovering from a very serious 
operation. But I still consider  my award  of £1,500 is fair and reasonable.
I dont have the power to make an award to punish Barclays  or to reflect  the impact of these 
complaints on others, including  Mr Ts family.  Nor can I take into account  Barclays 
resources in deciding  how much to award.
As set out above, I can make awards to reflect financial loss, pain and suffering, damage to 
reputation, and distress  or inconvenience.  Ive dealt with the financial loss above. I think  that 
Mr T has experienced distress, inconvenience, pain,  suffering and damage to reputation 
because of the acts and omissions of Barclays. My award reflects  the serious impact that 
Barclays acts and omissions had on him and that it caused him a substantial amount of 
trouble and upset.  After  reconsidering everything, I still consider  £1,500  is a fair amount to 
compensate Mr T for what happened and how it affected him, bearing in mind  that the issue  
with the receivers  was resolved in just over two weeks.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  PLC should.
Refund any of the receivers  costs it added  to Mr Ts mortgage along  with any receivers  
costs that Mr T paid directly where  he can provide  evidence to show the payment was 
made.
If any rent payments made  to the receiver were not paid to the mortgage, pay those 
amounts to Mr T.
Pay interest on any of the above  amounts that were added to the mortgage  at the 
mortgage interest rate from the date added to the mortgage  and then at 8% simple  
interest per year from the date the mortgage was repaid until date of settlement. 
Ref: DRN42896147Any of the above amounts paid directly  by Mr T should receive interest at 8% simple  per 
year from date of payment to date of settlement.
Pay Mr T £1,500 for any pain,  suffering,  damage  to reputation,  distress  and 
inconvenience caused by these matters.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 December  2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4289614