K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Premium Credit Limited  declined his application for credit  at short notice 
and that it provided  him with poor customer service. Hed like compensation for what 
happened.
background 
I set out the background  to this case and my provisional findings in a provisional decision 
issued on 11 December  2018. A copy of that decision is attached to this.
In that provisional  decision  I explained why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
why I thought Premium  Credit should pay Mr S £150  for the inconvenience  hed had as a 
result of the way it had dealt with his application for credit.
Mr S has responded to my decision to say he doesnt feel £150 reflects  the inconvenience 
hes had. Hed also like compensation for the calls he made to Premium Credit  during this 
time, as shown on the phone bill hes sent in. Hed like Premium Credit to provide  copies of 
the call recordings and, in particular, the call with a manager who,  he says, assured him his 
policy had been  set up and approved.
Premium Credit has accepted the recommendation in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive seen Mr S would like Premium  Credit  to locate all the calls made to and by it during this 
time but Premium Credit has already been  asked  to search its records and, as I set out in my 
provisional decision, it hasnt been  able to locate the calls referred  to by Mr S. But even if it 
could, I dont consider  it would  change the outcome as Ill now explain.
Mr S was hoping Premium  Credit would continue with his credit arrangement to fund his 
insurance policy. But Premium Credits explained  thered been a number of problems  with 
Mr Ss account in the previous twelve months  which meant he didnt meet their lending 
requirements. I can understand  why Mr S was disappointed  but thats a commercial  decision 
I cant interfere with. 
So in this case, its not the decision not to lend thats  the issue  but the way in which  Mr Ss 
application was dealt with. I explained in my provisional decision why I felt this could have 
been handled better. In particular I felt the information given  out to Mr S that meant he 
wasnt sure for several days  whether  his policy was in place or not. And its because  it wasnt 
handled well that I came to the view Premium  Credit  should compensate Mr S for the 
inconvenience this had caused.
I can see Mr S feels the compensation isnt adequate for what happened.  However some  of 
the problems hes described relate to the decision not to lend but as thats a decision 
Premium Credit was entitled to make, I cant reasonably ask them  to compensate Mr S for 
this. 
Ref: DRN41166492In respect of the way the application was handled, its clear  the information  given  to Mr S 
wasnt as clear as it could have been  but this was resolved within a short space of time. I 
note what Mr S says but I consider £150  is fair and reflects both the inconvenience caused 
to Mr S and his time and trouble in contacting Premium Credit at this time. For that reason I 
wont be asking Premium Credit to pay anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct  Premium Credit Limited to pay 
Mr S £150  for his trouble  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41166493COPY OF THE PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr S complains that Premium Credit Limited  declined his application for credit at short  notice and 
that it provided  him with poor customer service.
background
Mr S had a home insurance policy funded through a credit agreement  with Premium Credit. He 
says on 16 June  2018  he received a renewal letter dated  13 June from the insurance  provider and 
he understood  from this that the policy  would  continue to be funded by his agreement with 
Premium Credit.
He says when he logged into his Premium  Credit account on 11 July he saw a letter dated
10 July 2018 confirming this. But the following  day he received a further letter  from Premium Credit 
saying it wouldnt be providing  finance for his agreement and his application  had been declined.
Mr S says he logged in again on 13 July to find another letter saying a new credit agreement was 
available with a copy for him to sign, which  he did. He says this was also confirmed in a call with 
Premium Credit around this time, and in a letter from the insurer, dated 17 July. But on 19 July he 
was told by Premium Credit  that this application had also been  declined and his credit agreement  
had been cancelled.
Mr S says he feels Premium Credit could  have let him know  sooner that it was declining  his 
applications. He believes it would  have  been  aware  of the new application  on 13 June,  at the same 
time the renewal letter  was sent to him. If it had told him then, he could have made other 
arrangements but that hadnt been possible.  He feels this was poor service.
Premium Credit said it didnt receive notification from Mr Ss insurer  of his first application until 10 
July. At that point the agreement was set up on the basis of the information received. But it says it 
then reviewed Mr Ss account that showed that more than half of his
repayments the previous  year had been late. On that basis it felt it would be irresponsible to 
provide further  credit  and so his application was declined. It says it let him know on 11 July, the 
day after it heard from his insurer.
With regard to the second application, Premium Credit  said this had been put through by the insurer 
by mistake. It hadnt noticed  at first this was a duplicate application, and had approved it But when it 
was reviewed, it was declined  for the same reasons as the first. As it had been declined, and not 
cancelled, it didnt agree it needed to give Mr S two months notice. It said it set up the agreement  
on the basis of the information provided by the insurer and felt it was for the insurer to explain to Mr 
S that any application was subject to appropriate credit  checks.
It had searched its records for the calls referred to by Mr S but hadnt been  able to find any 
around that time so it couldnt say whether  a call had been made  or, if so, what was said in it. 
Overall, it didnt agree it had done anything wrong or that it now needed to do anything more.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Premium Credit like all lenders,  was entitled 
to look at an applicants  previous payment history to decide whether  or not to offer credit.  This was 
a commercial decision.  But shed seen Mr S had had problems with eight of his payments in the 
previous year so she didnt  think its decision  to decline  his applications  was unreasonable. And as 
theyd been declined, not cancelled, she didnt agree  Premium Credit needed  give Mr S two 
months notice.
Ref: DRN41166494Shed taken into account  thered been two applications but felt the second one had been 
wrongly set up by the insurer, not Premium Credit, so it wasnt responsible for this or any 
confusion caused by this.
She understood why Mr S felt we needed to listen to the calls hed had with Premium Credit at this 
time. But Premium Credit  had searched its records and hadnt been able to locate any calls,  in or 
out. And it hadnt found any notes on Mr Ss file to show thered been  a call or what was discussed. 
Without some more information to show what had been said, she couldnt say whether hed been 
misinformed.
Mr S disagreed and said in summary:
Premium Credit had issued him with a whole  new agreement that hed signed  and 
understood to be in place. It had done this twice,  then cancelled which he felt was 
unacceptable. He said hed had very little time to make  other arrangements  and hed been 
left potentially uninsured. He wanted to be compensated for this.
As hed been told the agreement had been set up, and not just applied for, he 
believed Premium Credit was required to give him two months notice of its 
cancellation.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Where theres no information on any particular point,  or the 
information available  is disputed,  then Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities, in 
other words whats  more  likely than not to have happened.
Premium Credit, like all lenders, is required to make  sure that any credit provided is affordable. In 
making that decision it can take into account the applicants previous payment  record and use that 
as a guide  on any further credit. In this case, the records show Mr S had had problems with more  
than half of the repayments  on his credit agreement in the previous year so I dont think  Premium 
Credits decision not to continue with the agreement for another year was unfair.
Having said that, Premium  Credit was still required  to provide clear and accurate information  to Mr 
S about his application and in this case Im not satisfied it did.
first application
The insurer contacted  Premium Credit on 10 July to ask it to set up a new agreement to fund
Mr Ss insurance for the next twelve months. At this point Premium Credit  appeared to 
accept the application  as shown by the letter on his online account  that read:
Your previous  Credit  Agreement  was cancelled so we've set up a new Credit Agreement to pay the 
balance due under your previous Credit Agreement. Your new Credit Agreement  may contain 
different terms and conditions so please take a moment to read these carefully.
But two days  after this and after Premium Credit  had carried  out a more detailed  review of
Mr Ss account, it wrote to Mr S to say his application  had been declined.
second application
Shortly after the first application was refused, the insurer submitted another application  for credit 
for Mr Ss insurance. Its not clear why it did this and it seems it was a mistake but Premium Credit  
Ref: DRN41166495didnt say so straight away. Instead,  it created  an online  agreement that Mr S was able to log in to 
and sign. It followed this on 17 July as follows::
We confirm  that-
- your credit agreement has been completed;
- the executed credit  agreement (that is, the credit agreement you signed) is identical in terms 
to the unexecuted copy of the credit agreement we have previously given to you;
you have a right to receive a copy  of the executed credit agreement. If you signed  your credit 
agreement using  My Premium Credit you can obtain a copy  of the executed credit agreement at 
any time by logging into your account  in My Premium Credit. If you signed a paper credit  
agreement, you can send your request in writing  to us
Ive seen that Premium Credit says all applications are subject to its credit checks. But looking at 
the information given to Mr S I cant see that it explained this to him. I think its fair to take from the 
information given to Mr S that it set up the agreement on two occasions  and confirmed this to him 
 only to reject them once it had carried out a more detailed review.
Its not for me to tell Premium  Credit how to manage its processes, but by telling Mr S his 
agreement was in place, without any warning  that this might change, it created an expectation 
that wasnt  met. And it did this twice.  In the circumstances,  I consider this was poor service.
And while  Premium  Credit says the insurer was wrong  to re-submit  the application, its clear it 
didnt pick this up at the time even  though  it had already declined one application  for Mr S only 
days before.  It seems to me this was a mistake that created further confusion for Mr S.
Ive seen Mr S says he was assured by a manager  that his agreement  had been approved, but I 
havent seen anything to show that was the case. Premium Credit has searched  its records but 
hasnt been able to locate the calls, and without this evidence I cant comment on what might have 
been said.
Ive also seen  Mr S believes  Premium Credit must have  been contacted  in June, when he was 
sent his renewal letter.  He says how otherwise  could his insurer have known the amount of his 
premium, including  the credit element. But the information provided by
Premium Credit shows it only received instructions to set up a new agreement  on 10 July so
Im satisfied thats when it was first notified.
I cant ask Premium Credit to reinstate  the agreement. Thats  a commercial decision based on its 
assessment of Mr S's ability to repay. But, for the reasons given I consider it gave Mr
S misleading information about his agreement and its process for assessing his applications. In the 
circumstances, I think itd be fair and reasonable  for Premium  Credit to compensate
Mr S for this and the trouble and inconvenience it caused.
Ive seen Mr S has asked for £500 compensation. But while I can see he feels  he was misled, its 
clear any confusion was resolved within  a short time. For that reason, I propose to direct Premium 
Credit to pay Mr S £150. Which I think is fair and proportionate.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that to resolve matters Premium Credit Limited should  pay Mr S
£150 for this trouble and inconvenience.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4116649