K822xcomplaint
Ms B complains  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) incorrectly 
made her savings account dormant. She says this caused her to lose out on interest 
payments shed have  received if the account had been active and reinvested  each year.
background 
Ms Bs account was placed into dormant status by Birmingham Midshires  in 
November 2015.  She became aware  of this in January 2016 and complained. Ms B asked  
the bank to reactivate the account and she provided  proof of her identity in branch as 
requested in February 2016. However,  Birmingham Midshires didnt actually complete her 
request.
Ms B got back in touch with Birmingham Midshires in 2018. Her account was reactivated in 
April 2018 and reinvested in May 2018.  Ms B complained again, maintaining that the 
account shouldnt  have been made dormant in the first place, since shed regularly changed  
it to achieve the highest  available interest rates. She wanted to be compensated for the lost 
interest.
Birmingham Midshires said it had followed its usual process  when applying  the dormancy.  
But it said it couldnt find any record that it had notified Ms B when her promotional interest 
rate was last due to expire  in January 2015. So, it offered to pay her the difference  in interest 
shed have received if her account  had remained on its best available rates from 
January 2015  to May 2018. It also offered £525 to compensate her for any upset its 
mistakes had caused.
Ms B didnt accept the offer. She said that if the account had been reactivated correctly in 
2016, shed have transferred her money to a third party savings account which  benefitted 
from a higher rate of interest.
Our investigator looked at the case.  During the course of his review  it came to light that 
Birmingham Midshires had miscalculated  the amount  of interest  due to Ms B - one of the 
interest rates it had used was too low. It offered to make a further  payment to Ms B reflecting 
the correct amount, adding interest  at 8% simple per year to this. Overall, the investigator 
thought Birmingham Midshires offer to put things right was fair. 
Ms B rejected the offer, as she still felt she should  receive interest equivalent to the rate of 
interest she couldve received if shed  transferred  her savings to the third party account. She 
also thought Birmingham Midshires should pay her compensatory interest on the original 
interest payment  and the £525  compensation. The investigator didnt agree. He felt there 
wasnt enough evidence  to show Ms B wouldve transferred her savings to the third party in 
2016. This was because  he didnt think she had taken any significant steps to pursue this 
between 2016  and 2018. He also felt further compensatory interest wasnt  in line with our 
services approach.
Ms B raised a number of further concerns about  the information Birmingham Midshires had 
shared with us throughout the investigation.  She believed it had withheld important 
information from us that had since  come  to light through her subject access request. Ms B 
also said shed tried to pursue things with our service in 2016, and had been in contact with 
Birmingham Midshires throughout. She provided  a copy of a letter  she sent to it in May 2016.
Ref: DRN49629282As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to be 
asking Birmingham Midshires  to do any more to put things right. I think the compensation it 
has already offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ms B says Birmingham Midshires shouldnt  have made her account dormant. 
Birmingham Midshires says it was entitled  to do so under the account terms and conditions. 
However, it accepted  Ms B may not have been  sent a notification  when her promotional  rate 
expired in January 2015 or that the account  was to be made dormant. I dont  need  to make a 
finding on whether  it was fair for the account  to be made dormant. This is because  
Birmingham Midshires has made an offer reflecting  the position of the account if it had 
remained active throughout. What I have to consider is whether the offer is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Birmingham Midshires offered to pay Ms B interest on the sum held in her savings account 
from 30 January 2015 until 23 May 2018.  This represented a payment of £5,737.62 gross  
and was paid directly to her account.  Unfortunately, one of the interest rates  quoted was 
incorrect, so Birmingham Midshires  has since made an additional  offer of £1,457.69, plus 
interest at a rate of 8% simple from 21 June 2018  to the date of payment. The interest  has 
been calculated  using the best promotional rates Birmingham Midshires offered  at the time, 
assuming Ms B reinvested  the account  each  January when her previous  rate expired.
Ms B says if her account had been reactivated in 2016, she wouldve moved  her savings 
elsewhere. Shes provided evidence showing that she opened a savings account with a third 
party in February  2016 to facilitate this. Ms B also said she made her intentions to move her 
savings very clear in the discussions she had with Birmingham Midshires at the time. So, 
she believes  it would be fair for Birmingham  Midshires  to match the interest rates she 
couldve received  if shed been  able to move her savings to the third party  in February 2016.
Ive listened to the calls made available to our service and I agree Ms B made it clear that 
her intention was to close her account  with Birmingham Midshires  and move  her savings 
elsewhere. And as Ms B opened an account with a specific third party, its reasonable to 
assume she intended to move her savings to this business. But while I think  Ms B intended 
to move her savings, her actions are what counts.
In February 2016  Ms B provided the identification required to reactive her account in branch. 
However, it appears this wasnt forwarded to the correct  department.  Birmingham Midshires 
wrote to Ms B on 29 February 2016  advising her that it hadnt received the relevant 
identification. However, Ms B says she didnt receive this. Ms B questions  why the letter  was 
unsigned. But such letters  from businesses are often unsigned  I dont have any reason  to 
doubt it was sent.
Ms B has recently provided a copy of a letter she sent to Birmingham Midshires  dated 
6 May 2016.  This shows she was intending to refer a complaint to our service if her account 
wasnt reactivated in the next four weeks. It doesnt appear this letter  was received by 
Birmingham Midshires  theres no reference  to it in any of its records.  As Ms B didnt  hear 
Ref: DRN49629283back from Birmingham Midshires, she contacted our service  in June 2016. However, this 
didnt progress as we didnt receive a complaint form from Ms B.
I accept Ms B fully intended to reactivate her account and move her funds  to the third party  
savings account.  And its clear that she pursued  this between February and June 2016. But 
after this point there wasnt any further  contact  from Ms B until April 2018. Ms B says she 
was in constant contact with Birmingham Midshires throughout this period. But it doesnt 
have any record of this contact and Ms B also hasnt been able to provide evidence  that she 
was in touch during  this time.
For this reason, I dont  think I can fairly ask Birmingham Midshires  to match  the interest rates  
provided by the third party.  Ultimately, Ms B didnt pursue the matter  further  after June 2016. 
So, it isnt reasonable to conclude that she would have moved  the funds to the third party 
after this point as her actions show that she didnt. I know  Ms B says she couldnt  have done 
any more at the time, but I wouldve expected to see repeated phone calls and requests  to 
Birmingham Midshires until the account was reactivated and the funds moved. Instead, it 
appears Ms B left the matter until April 2018.  
Ms B has also complained that Birmingham Midshires hasnt used the best available 
promotional rates in its calculation.  Shes referred to a promotional rate of 1.6% that it 
launched on 14 July 2015 and was withdrawn on 11 November  2015. Ms B says she 
wouldve taken advantage of this.
Ive taken this into account but I dont think it would be fair to assume Ms B wouldve taken 
advantage of this rate. I say this because this rate was made available  before Ms Bs 
account was made  dormant. So, if shed  actually wanted to take advantage of the new 
available rate, it follows she wouldve been  in contact  with Birmingham Midshires  to make it 
happen. However, its clear she wasnt in contact with Birmingham Midshires about her 
account until January  2016, after this rate expired. So, I think  its fair for Birmingham 
Midshires to assume Ms B wouldve kept reinvesting  the account  annually in January, 
following the expiry  of the promotional rate in January 2014.
Overall, I think the interest payment offered by Birmingham Midshires  is fair. I think it was 
reasonable for it to add 8% simple interest to the extra  sum it offered to Ms B after 
discovering the mistake. But I dont think it needs  to add the same interest to the original 
sum offered. I say this because compensatory interest  is usually awarded  where  a customer 
was deprived of money and we cant know how this wouldve been used. However, in this 
case the interest wouldve been  payable  annually to Ms Bs savings account,  and wouldve  
continued to accrue  further interest.  I think Birmingham Midshires offer already reflects  this 
as it has calculated Ms Bs losses as if the payments had been made to the account at the 
time.
While Ms B hasnt disputed the sum Birmingham Midshires offered for the trouble and upset 
caused (£525),  she believes  it should pay compensatory interest on it. But I dont think  
Birmingham Midshires needs  to add interest  to this sum. Ms B didnt  accept the offer; 
instead, she brought her complaint to our service.  So, I dont think this sum has been 
withheld from her unreasonably.
Ms B has also raised concerns with the way Birmingham Midshires  has shared information  
with our service throughout our investigation of her complaint. In particular, she says she 
was able to obtain copies  of phone calls that our investigator was told werent available. 
Ref: DRN49629284It was disappointing  to see that Ms B was able to obtain information relating  to her complaint 
that hadnt been provided to our service when requested. But it doesnt appear to me that 
this was deliberate  on Birmingham  Midshires part  phone  call recordings are often difficult 
to locate and are spread across multiple  systems.  The issue with the interest rate payable  
from 30 January 2015 also appeared to be a genuine mistake. And whilst I appreciate  
Ms Bs frustration with this, the interest payable was recalculated  and I think  the 8% simple 
interest offered  on the extra sum compensates  Ms B fairly  for this mistake. 
my final decision
Birmingham Midshires has made the following offers to put things right:
an interest payment  of £5,737.62;
a further interest  payment of £1,457.69,  plus interest at a rate of 8% simple from 
21 June 2018  to the date of payment; and
£525 compensation.
I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this 
complaint. Birmingham Midshires should pay the above sums  to Ms B in full and final 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4962928