K820x#14complaint
Mr K, representing the trustees, complains that Tilney Financial Planning Limited  continued 
to receive annual payments of commission relating to a bond  set up in 2003 despite failing to 
provide ongoing advice  or support.
(Mr K has brought another complaint relating to the bond, but acting in a different capacity  
as executor of his fathers estate.  That matter  has been dealt with separately,  under a 
different reference.)
background
I issued a provisional decision on the trustees  complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In that provisional  decision  I explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
short, I was satisfied that Tilney was entitled  to receive the commission. 
Tilney accepted my decision. 
Mr K responded to say, in brief;
While  the right of Tilney to keep  the commission based on the contractual 
arrangements prevailed, my decision didnt properly take into consideration Tilney's  
failure to provide important information  when  requested to do so; frankly a gross 
failure to provide a proper service, which surely  merits  compensation. 
Hed considered  that the amount of commission taken was the best reasonable 
measure of what hed be prepared to accept in this respect - it was not originally the 
commission itself that he was trying to recover. 
In raising the failure to provide a proper  service, he was drawn to a newspaper article 
relating to another business and the ombudsman service  and the payment of 
compensation in similar circumstances (a copy of which was provided to us).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted,  the complaint  has  by virtue of the was our rules require us to consider matters  
been dealt with as two complaints. Mr Ks comments relate  in the main  to the issue  of 
information provision,  which is the focus  of the other complaint. 
As such,  I wont comment further  in respect  of this complaint other  to say that Im not 
persuaded to depart  from my provisional  view that Tilney was entitled to the commission.  I 
say that while acknowledging Mr Ks comments about why he had linked the matters of 
commission and information  provision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN42084072Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the trustees to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 December  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42084073COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr K, representing the trustees, complains that Tilney Financial Planning  Limited  continued to receive 
annual payments  of commission relating to a bond set up in 2003 despite failing  to provide ongoing 
advice or support.
(Mr K has brought  another complaint relating to the bond, but acting in a different capacity  as 
executor of his fathers estate.  That matter has been dealt with separately, under a different 
reference.)
 
background
In 2003, on the advice of Tilney (then Towry Law), Mr Ks father set up an Estate Planning Bond Trust  
for the purpose of inheritance tax planning. Mr K and his sister  were the trustees. 
Sadly their father passed away in April 2006. Acting as executor for his fathers estate, Mr K made  
enquiries with Towry Law about what policies  his father may have held, as part of the process  of 
collating the estates assets. No information  was forthcoming  from Towry, so Mr K assumed there 
were no relevant assets. This 2006 interaction forms the basis of the other complaint. 
Much later, in 2018, Mr Ks sister was contacted by the provider of the bond. This led to Mr K making 
further enquiries and it being confirmed that the Estate Planning Trust was in fact in place  and had 
been at the time of the 2006  enquiry. On discovering  this, Mr K complained to Tilney. 
 
The part of that complaint Im considering in this decision concerns, as noted, the trustees view that 
the ongoing receipt of commission by Towry Law, then Tilney, placed upon it a responsibility  to 
provide further advice.  In effect,  that there shouldve been some contact made  by Towry Law or Tilney 
in respect of the bond between 2003 and 2018, not least in 2006 when  Mr K spoke with Towry  Law 
about his fathers estate.     
Tilneys response to Mr K in respect of this element  of the complaint was, in brief;
The bonds application confirmed that Towry Law would receive  initial commission of 4% of 
the amount invested  and annual commission  of 0.5% of the policy  fund.
The policy  provider  has confirmed  the latter is renewal or trail commission payments, made  
to an intermediary by a product provider, in line with a contractual  agreement  that exists 
between them.
The commission was only in respect of the advice  provided for that bond at that time.  It 
created no obligation to make further contact and/or recommendations.
If a request for additional advice had been made subsequent to 2003, that advice  wouldve 
attracted a separate fee.
Tilney was recorded  as the servicing agent, so if further advice had been requested it 
wouldve been able to approach the bond provider to obtain information, without having to 
obtain further authority.
Our adjudicator broadly  agreed with Tilneys reasoning, so she didnt  think the complaint should be 
upheld. She noted also that the information provided about commission in the bonds  illustration  
indicated that it was paid for arranging  this bond, with no suggestion  that it covered  any additional, 
follow-up work. She also noted that it was common practice for the payment of trail commission to 
continue when there  was a takeover or merger   although  the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA)  had 
introduced new rules  for products sold post-2012.       
Mr K didnt accept this. His response naturally focussed on the specifics of what happened in 2006, 
which is the subject of the other  complaint.  But, in short, his view remains  that the ongoing payment of 
commission is only justifiable on the basis that some kind of ongoing service  is provided. 
Ref: DRN42084074As no agreement could  be reached, the matters been referred to me to decide.   
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I appreciate Mr Ks concerns  and understand his argument. Its not uncommon  for the issue of trail 
commission to be raised and the FCAs actions as a result of its review  do highlight that this type of 
arrangement was in many ways an unsatisfactory  one that lacked transparency. 
But it nevertheless remains the case that in relation to a sale of an investment product made  in 2003 
this was an entirely  commonplace arrangement and one supported by the documentation  produced at 
the time of the sale.  
As the adjudicator  pointed  out, the illustration made clear that the payment of commission was in 
respect of arranging the bond in question. There was no suggestion that receipt  of either initial or trail 
commission would place a responsibility  on Towry Law, or Tilney, to later review either the bond itself 
or Mr Ks fathers general financial situation. 
Underpinning this was Towry Laws terms of business,  which specifically set out that once it had 
arranged an investment it would not undertake any regular or periodic  review of that investment, but 
will be glad to advise you at any time you ask us to do so...
This being so, I dont  think I can reasonably conclude that Tilney acted  incorrectly or unreasonably in 
not pro-actively reviewing  the investment  or approaching the trustees. 
I note,  of course, Mr Ks arguments concerning his approach to Tilney in 2006  in his capacity as the 
executor of his fathers estate.  But that issue has, as noted, been dealt with separately.  That said,  I 
think if the trustees had approached Tilney asking  specifically for further investment advice either  
generally or on the bond itself  it would have been forthcoming, but crucially it wouldve been charged 
for separately; it wouldnt  have been  provided under the auspices of the original advice, or its related 
commission.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I receive,  I dont  think  the complaint 
should be upheld. 
Ref: DRN4208407