K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them two 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs G bought  a policy in 1998  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  In 2000, Mr and Mrs G bought  an 
additional policy at the same time as taking  out a further advance in branch. 
The policies both provided cover for Mr G only for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to exclusions and limitations. The first policy  offered to repay £500 a month  towards 
Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim.  At the time, it cost 
£25.30 a month. The second policy offered to repay £640.23 a month towards Mr and Mrs 
Gs mortgage balance  in the event  of a successful claim.  At the time,  it cost £38.79 a month.
In 1998, the mortgage application  form shows Mr G was employed as maintenance  staff. He 
told us he was entitled to at least 12 months  full sick pay, redundancy pay and death in 
service benefit from his employer. He also said he had a life insurance  policy  in place.  Mr G 
has said he was in good health at the time of the sale,  although he had a pre-existing 
medical condition  from 1994. Mr Gs circumstances were similar when he took the new 
policy in 2000.  The further advance application  form shows he had the same  job title, but 
with a new employer.
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2002.
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Gs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs G 
wouldnt have taken  out the policies  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and 
Mrs Gs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Halifax should 
have told Mr and Mrs G about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs G 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN44025452The policies only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs G received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint.
The first sale took place in 1998 before the General Insurance  Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this element  of their complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter 
Guidance (PERG). 
The second  sale took place in 2000  before the sale of general  insurance products like this 
became regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching 
principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable 
to this complaint;  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG).
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN44025453There were a number of industry codes in existence  in 1998 and 2000, which I am satisfied 
are applicable to my consideration  of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
In 2000, The General  Insurance  Standards  Councils General Insurance Code  for private  
customers  the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI.
In 1998 and 2000, The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax in both 1998  and 2000.  So, Im satisfied I should take the ABI 
Code and these  other  publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Ref: DRN44025454key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policies were  appropriate  or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policies, 
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policies and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs G, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs G 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs G 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs G know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policies were  optional.  
Halifax has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Gs 1998 mortgage application form. Looking at 
the form, there is a section about PPI which broadly explains what the cover  is and 
underneath, there is a statement to say yes to PPI. I can see Mr and Mrs G signed in the 
box, indicating  they wanted the PPI added to their account. Mr G also signed a separate  
application form for the PPI. Mr G a similar application form for PPI in 2000.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs G knew the policies 
were optional and they agreed  to take them  both out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it would  have  provided advice during both sales.
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policies were appropriate or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
Ref: DRN44025455the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meetings, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Halifax took some steps to establish  whether  the policies  were  a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs G. The adviser  had information  about some of Mr and 
Mrs Gs financial  circumstances  as part of the mortgage and further  advance  applications. 
But although  demands and needs  statements  were  completed to try and establish  whether 
Mr and Mrs G had a need for the policies  by asking questions  about their wider 
circumstances such as any health  issues  I dont think it did enough to ensure  the PPI was 
suitable. For example,  I cant see that Halifax asked Mr and Mrs G enough  questions  about 
what other means they had of repaying their mortgage and later,  their further advance.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policies were  suitable for Mr and Mrs G given their circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policies were 
suitable for Mr and Mrs G, I do think its more likely than not that the policies were ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr G met the eligibility criteria  for the policies.
-Mr and Mrs G had a need  for the policies  Mr G was the main wage earner and it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs Gs finances would be put under strain if he were not 
working  even allowing for the sickness and redundancy  benefits  he was entitled  to 
and Mrs Gs income. The policies  would have helped Mr and Mrs G manage the 
consequences were  Mr G unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policies appears to have been affordable for Mr and Mrs G.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policies unsuitable for Mr and Mrs G. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Gs employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for him to claim on either policy. Regarding  pre-existing medical 
conditions, Mr G has told us about  a condition he experienced in 1994,  a few years  
before the first sale.  But Mr G told us it only caused him to take two days  off of work 
at the time, and he hasnt said anything to suggest it was ongoing.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policies including: the any similar 
gainful occupation condition and the fact the first policy would  only pay benefits  for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim and the second for a maximum of 24 months 
for each claim, the policies still provided valuable cover given:
Mr Gs circumstances, including their employers  sickness  and redundancy 
provisions, and the limits to those provisions, which  mean  the policies could 
play an important role after those  provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policies protected the mortgage and further advance repayments 
relating to their home and the potential consequences should Mr and Mrs G 
be unable to make the repayments  on loans secured against their house.
Ref: DRN44025456Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policies to enable  them  to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policies.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G were given a broad description  of 
what the policies  were intended  to cover (that is that the policies would protect  their 
payments if Mr G was unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment)  and of 
the approximate  costs. I have reached  this conclusion because  this information was 
provided on the PPI application forms Mr G completed.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs G agreed to take out the policies. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policies were a suitable  recommendation for Mr and Mrs G, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policies it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs G all of the 
information they needed about the policies  to make an informed decision about whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Gs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Gs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs G about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs G have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
Ref: DRN44025457what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs G? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs G suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold either policy to Mr and 
Mrs G. So I have gone on to consider  whether  it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr and Mrs G suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs G would have still taken  out the policies, had Halifax done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policies it recommended were suitable for Mr and Mrs G, I have found  that the policies were 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs G have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs G would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policies in any event.
Mr and Mrs G say they wouldnt  have  taken out the policies and believe I should  presume 
this to be the case given the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered the 
representations of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out a policy,  the cost of doing  so given the benefits  offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs G had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  
Mr G was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product  on both occasions.  But they made  their decisions based on 
incomplete information, meaning  what they thought they were  getting is not exactly  what 
they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances 
at the time of both sales that the policies were not fundamentally  wrong or unsuitable for 
them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policies, this information  as provided for the first sale,  but it doesnt  appear  
Halifax told them the exact premium at the point Mr and Mrs G applied for the second policy.  
Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs G would have been told the cost before the 
policy started and they paid for the policies for a number of months, so if the costs  were 
significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible they might  have 
raised that with Halifax at the time or reconsidered  their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs G would have found the cost of the second policy 
unacceptable if they had been given the exact  figure  during the meeting in which  they 
agreed to it.
Ref: DRN44025458In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs G would get back 
in return in the event they made  a successful claim on the second policy. But I think  its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs Gs expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim 
(an amount  sufficient to meet  their mortgage payment) were significantly different to what the 
policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs G thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  when  they took both policies  were  the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions or symptoms that Mr G 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policies;
The policies contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr G 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr G be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The first policy protected payments for up to 12 months and the second  policy  
protected payments for up to 24 months, rather than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs G pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude the policies 
werent as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed  with either. 
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in these sales, might  
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs G from 
taking out the policies.  
But the evidence  about Mr Gs circumstances at the time of both sales  shows that the 
policies werent  fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for him. He was eligible for their benefits 
and they provided  cover  that, despite their limitations and exclusions, couldve proved  
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr G says he had 
a medical condition some time before both policies were taken out, and the policies wouldnt 
have provided  cover  had he needed  time off work  because of this condition,  I dont think  
better information about this exclusion would have put him off agreeing  to either  policy. I say 
this because as Ive explained  above,  Mr G says he only needed  to take two days  off for the 
condition and it occurred  around four years before the first sale.  So, as Mr G hasnt said 
anything to suggest the condition was ongoing  or recurred  I dont  think it would have put 
him off taking either policy.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mr G wouldve been caught  by any of the other  
significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policies  out.
Ref: DRN44025459I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and 
Mrs G might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely  they would have expected to be 
able to make  a disability  claim without  having to provide  some  evidence to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs G from taking out the policies,  Mr and Mrs G, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs G had known they could only claim for disability if he was not only unable  to do 
his job or any similar  job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he might  
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what they would 
have done. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought   although  its possible 
they may not have been overly concerned  given that if Mr G was unable  (through disability) 
to carry on his own occupation the chances  that he would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs G that any claim Mr G made  would be limited to a 12-
month period  for the first policy and a 24-month  period for the second policy. This may have 
differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for  but 12 was likely a longer 
period than Mr G would have received sick pay for despite what  hes said.  Its very unusual  
for an employer in the industry Mr G worked  for to provide  12 months full sick pay. And 
24 months, offered  by the second policy, was a longer period than Mr G would  have 
received full sick pay for.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs G would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 or 24 monthly mortgage  payments  would have been of benefit to them  and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr G be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policies. The policies allowed for multiple  claims to be made, 
they could help reduce their outgoings  at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home  
was not placed at risk and might potentially  help preserve Mr Gs sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs G would still have taken out the policies. The policies were  suitable for 
them, were  sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr G was made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs G would have taken out the policies in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Gs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN440254510Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs G would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs G found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs G believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policies. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs G in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policies, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policies they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr and Mrs G compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs G think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policies in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs G, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1998, and later in 2000, when providing information about insurance  
policies. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Gs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs G and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs G in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN440254511my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2021.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4402545