K820x#14complaint
Miss F complains that BMW Financial  Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly charged 
her for excess mileage under a hire purchase agreement. 
background
In September  2015, Miss F acquired a used  car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
BMWFS. The total repayable under  the agreement was £18,440.06.  Miss F was required to 
make 36 monthly payments of £263.95 and there  was a final optional payment of £8,657.57  
if she wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Miss F had the right to terminate  the agreement  at any time 
before the final payment was due. In doing  so, BMWFS would be entitled to return  of the car 
and at least half of the total repayable under  the agreement. The agreement set out this was 
£9,220.03. 
Miss F asked to terminate  the agreement in March  2018  30 months  into the 37 month 
agreement. As she hadnt yet paid at least £9,220.03, BMWFS  said she needed to pay 
£1,285.19. Miss F made this payment and the car was collected by BMWFS. However,  
BMWFS later charged her a further  £310.39  as she had exceeded the mileage allowance  on 
the agreement. 
The agreement set out that Miss F had an annual  mileage allowance of 8,000 and a total 
mileage allowance  of 24,667 (on top of the 7,975  miles that had already accrued before  she 
acquired it). It said that if she exceeded  this allowance BMWFS could charge her 5.26 pence 
for every mile that she exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the event she terminated 
the agreement  early, the mileage allowance would be pro-rated for the time the car was on 
hire. 
Miss F didnt agree £310.39  was a fair charge. She said that BMWFS had calculated the 
charge incorrectly and it should only have  charged  her £170.06.  She said that although she 
terminated the agreement at month 30, she had effectively paid for 34 months hire. She said 
the mileage allowance should  therefore  be pro-rated to 34 months and not 30 months which  
is what BMWFS  used. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that BMWFS  
had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line with the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement  and the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
In summary,  she said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase 
agreement early  and S100  sets out what liabilities a consumer  has on termination.  
In brief,  on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least  half of the total price of 
the agreement. Total  price is defined by S189 CCA as the total sum payable  under 
the hire purchase  agreement. It does not include charges  for items that are payable 
as compensation  for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges for 
breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.  
S99 sets out that any liabilities  that the consumer accrued prior to termination are not 
to be affected by the termination. 
Ref: DRN40860092The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage  charges  will accrue 
immediately prior to termination. The term was clear  that the charge accrued before 
termination and was therefore not affected by the termination. 
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance  is a 
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage  charges must therefore be included in 
the total price  of the agreement. 
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted  towards the 
total price of the agreement. Miss Fs accrued liability under S100 therefore included  
paying an additional amount of £310.39.
Miss F didnt agree, so the complaint  has been  passed to me for a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
Miss F took out a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS  and exercised her right to 
voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some instances, voluntary termination allows the 
hirer to simply hand back the car without having  to pay anything  more. But this is dependant 
on, amongst other things, how much  has been paid to the agreement, whether there  are 
arrears to be paid, the condition  of the car and whether any excess  mileage  or other  charges 
are due. 
In this case Miss F accepts that she was required to pay £9,220.03 to voluntary terminate 
the agreement  but its the excess mileage charges that she disputes.  Miss F doesnt appear  
to dispute that a charge  for excess mileage is payable, but she feels  the way in which it has 
been calculated  is unfair. 
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have  to voluntary terminate their hire purchase 
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination your rights section of 
Miss Fs hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination  and in 
Miss Fs case,  that was £9,220.03. Various sections of the agreement  Miss F had with 
BMWFS also referred  to the liability on early termination, including  where excess  mileage, 
damage charges  or other charges may increase the final liability. 
I agree  that by paying £9,220.03 Miss F has paid BMWFS an amount which  is equivalent to 
around 34 monthly repayments.  However,  the amount due on voluntary termination is not 
directly linked to the cost of the monthly  rentals or the number of rentals that have been paid 
under the agreement. Miss Fs agreement says the total amount payable  under the 
agreement is £18,440.06. This figure  includes the amount of credit, interest  and any other  
charges. The CCA sets out that the liability on voluntary termination, subject to certain other  
conditions, is half of the total amount payable.  In Miss Fs case  that amounts  to £9,220.03 
and this is the amount she has paid. 
But how the £9,220.03 in Miss Fs case compares to the number of rental  payments of 
£263.95 is irrelevant  and not a consideration under S99 or S100 of the CCA. I note it also 
doesnt form part of any of the contractual  terms between  Miss F and BMWFS. The 
voluntary termination  reference to half of the total amount  payable  is exactly  that and does 
not apply to half of the term of the agreement or any other  period.  Because  of this, the 
£9,220.03 does not relate to how any excess mileage charge is applied  or calculated. 
Ref: DRN40860093Miss Fs agreement with BMWFS sets out how any excess mileage charge would be due 
and if necessary prorated. Having considered this, against how BMWFS  says the charge of 
£310.39 has been calculated, Im satisfied  the amount  has been calculated  in accordance 
with the terms and conditions and that the charge has not been applied  unfairly.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2021.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4086009