K820x#14complaint
Mr S is complaining about The Royal  London  Mutual  Insurance  Society  Limited because  it 
declined a claim on his critical  illness insurance  policy. He says the information  he was given  
at the outset led him to believe the cover  provided  by his policy was more comprehensive 
than that available from other insurers,  and that the comments provided by his treating 
consultant show  his claim should be paid.
background
Mr S took out his critical  illness insurance  policy, now administered  by Royal London, in 
2001.
Sadly, Mr S recently developed serious health  problems. When he tried to claim, 
Royal London didnt  pay out. It said the condition and treatment hes claiming for arent 
covered.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She also felt Mr Ss illness  and 
treatment arent covered  by the policy. She confirmed shed read the letter from his 
consultant, Dr J, dated 21 August  2018,  but didnt think this changed things.
Mr S didnt accept the adjudicators assessment. He continues  to believe the comments  from 
his consultant show his claim should be paid and he referred again to the information he 
received when the policy was sold. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators conclusions for much the same  reasons.
 
Before going any further, I was sorry to learn of Mr Ss health problems and I realise hes 
been going through a very difficult time.
Its important to understand the policy wasnt intended to cover every  serious illness 
somebody could  suffer  from.  The illnesses that are covered were  set out in the policy  terms 
issued when it was set up. 
Dr Js letter of 21 August  2018 confirms Mr Ss condition was chronic  thromboembolic  
pulmonary hypertension and that this was treated by pulmonary endarterectomy surgery. 
Ive reviewed the policy terms carefully and Im satisfied Royal  London is right to say neither 
this illness  nor the treatment are covered. Dr J and Mr S dont seem to dispute  that.
Nonetheless, Dr J pointed out the policy does cover  heart valve  replacement or repair and 
thinks the claim should be paid under this heading. The policy  defines heart valve  
replacement or repair  as follows:
Undergoing open heart surgery from medical necessity to replace  or repair  one or 
more heart  valves.
To explain his view, Dr J said:
Ref: DRN40138932The aim of pulmonary  endarterectomy is to provide prognostic and symptomatic 
benefit and prevent lethal right heart failure by reducing the pulmonary vascular 
resistance. This leads  to improvement in right ventricular function, less dilatation and 
less tricuspid valve regurgitation.  Hence by definition the operation  does lead to 
repair of the function of the tricuspid  valve and therefore would qualify under your 
listed definitions.
Ive considered this carefully and I appreciate the point being made. But my understanding  is 
that Mr Ss surgery didnt actually involve the replacement on any of his heart  valves or work 
directly to them. For that reason, I dont think I could reasonably say this definition has been 
met.
I can see Mr S has had a very serious  illness thats had a major impact on his life. But on the 
basis that I dont  think  the medical evidence currently shows his condition or the treatment 
he had met the definition  of any of the illnesses covered by his policy,  Im satisfied Royal  
London was entitled to decline his claim.
Ive noted Mr Ss comments about what he received  at the time of sale and Ive reviewed the 
documents hes provided. This is marketing information that Id expect to describe the policy  
in positive terms, but I dont think it contains  anything Id consider  to be misleading.  For 
example, I certainly  dont  think it says the problems  Mr S has since experienced would be 
covered. And I think its unlikely hed have got a policy with another  insurer at that time that 
would specifically have  covered it. As Dr J said in his letter, the
. . . condition  and major cardiac surgical operation is relatively rare and is therefore  
usually not specifically listed under the definitions for cover  . . . 
The nature of critical illness policies and the conditions covered  has evolved since  Mr S took 
his policy  in 2001 and I note he thinks more  recent  policies would cover  his claim and I can 
see why hed be aggrieved at that. It may be this is what  Dr J was referring  to when he said 
hes dealt with other patients  whove been able to claim in similar  circumstances. But his 
policy was set up and costed to cover  the specific illnesses listed  in the terms issued at the 
time, and Royal  London  wasnt obliged to amend  the terms of his cover  in line with changes 
to new policies that came to the market later on.
I appreciate this decision will come  as a great disappointment to Mr S and I have every 
sympathy for the position  in which he finds himself.  But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think the medical evidence shows his illness or the treatment  he had are covered by the 
policy and Im therefore satisfied Royal London  was entitled to decline his claim. 
Ref: DRN40138933my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4013893