K820x#14complaint
Ms T is unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA). It provided the property  
insurance for her new home which she was due to move into on 19 December 2017  but 
couldnt due to a water leak.  It was nearly a year before the claim was resolved and, in the 
meantime, Ms T suffered a lot of distress and inconvenience, as well as incurring debts.
background
Ms T bought a new house and was due to move  into it on 19 December 2017. Unfortunately,  
when a boiler man attended the property  on 18 December  2017 to carry out a service,  he 
found water  streaming down from the ceilings, some of which  had collapsed  in part. 
The property is a bungalow and it was later found  that a stop cock in the tank in the loft had 
failed due to the cold weather. The whole of the house was affected. 
Ms T arranged to have  the water turned off straight  away. RSA was contacted  and an 
adjuster arranged to attend on 20 December 2017.  Ms T, with the help of her family, also 
arranged to purchase a caravan as temporary  accommodation as she had to move  out of 
her old home (which had been sold) and had nowhere to stay. 
The adjuster  accepted  that the leak was recent   it wasnt the case  that it had likely been 
on-going since  before Ms T became the owner  of the property on 15 December 2017.  But 
RSA felt another loss adjuster needed  to be appointed  and a second visit was arranged  for 
23 January 2018.  
During the visit it was noted that if a six-month rental  could not be organised  other options 
for homing Ms T and her pets might  need  to be considered. But after this visit no attempts 
were made by the adjuster  to find or arrange  rental  accommodation and Ms T was later told 
this wasnt feasible  as repairs wouldnt take six months. The adjuster told Ms T he would 
reimburse the cost of the caravan if she was going to keep  using it. No attempt was made to 
offer or find any other accommodation for Ms T.
From the outset of the claim it was accepted that most of Ms Ts property had been affected  
by the water leak. It was initially thought that the two bedrooms  had avoided  damage,  but 
this was later found to be incorrect.  It was accepted that some  checks would be needed  for 
asbestos, but this wasnt  arranged  until after the drying company had attended to start the 
drying process and had refused to do so because the issue of asbestos had not been  dealt 
with. Further, because  the bedrooms  werent initially on the repair  schedule,  their ceilings 
werent initially tested  for asbestos, when they were the results  were positive and they had to 
be removed.
The drying company  had initially asked  for an internal  wall to be stripped  back.  It wasnt.  
Later there were concerns  about the wall still being wet. When  it was opened up it was found 
to be packed with straw. Investigations showed  all the internal walls were and whilst most 
had shown no external sign of water  damage, the straw inside had germinated due to the 
increased moisture content of the property. All the internal walls had to be removed. 
Around this time Ms T spoke with a managing loss adjuster. Ms T was upset about the 
conditions she was living in. It was agreed that a disturbance  allowance would be paid, and 
backdated. But Ms T was told a rental  property wouldnt be organised for her now as 
reinstatement works  were  only expected  to only last another 4  6 weeks.
Ref: DRN43569162Once the reinstatement  work  started there was then a delay when the contractor needed 
authorisation in respect of electrical works.  The adjuster was on leave and the contractor 
had to halt work at Ms Ts home before resuming it about a month later,  once authorisation 
was received. Ms T was due to move home on 26 November  2018 with carpets being laid 
shortly thereafter, but on 24 November  Ms T found there was work still do and she was 
concerned this would affect her carpets  being laid. Further works were done,  although not 
without Ms T having to chase and organise things.
In December 2018 Ms T complained to RSA. She felt the loss adjuster she had mostly dealt 
with had entirely failed her. In summary he wouldnt answer or return calls, he didnt organise 
or manage  the work,  he hadnt helped with her living  situation. She explained how awful  it 
had been living in the caravan all that time  an arrangement  that had been meant to be 
temporary as it was small, not constructed to deal with extremes  of temperature  and had no 
sanitary facilities. She explained  that living that way had caused her to not be able to work  
and, as a result, shed had to live off her savings. Her relationship with her daughter  and 
family had also been affected.
RSA asked its adjuster  to explain  the situation  from his side.  He suggested the claim  and 
repairs had just become  more complex as time had gone on but thered never been any 
initial expectation for repairs to last six months  and as Ms T had seemed happy  to be staying 
in the caravan, no other accommodation had been  sought for her.
RSA then wrote to Ms T. It said it accepted the service shed received wasnt satisfactory 
and it was truly sorry. RSA said it felt the claim had taken longer than it should, even 
accounting for its complexity.  It accepted  there were delays throughout and that Ms T had 
been left to stay in the unsuitable  caravan.  RSA said it would pay Ms T £1,600 
compensation. Ms T complained to us as she didnt  think this accounted  for what shed been 
though, the earnings shed lost or the savings  shed spent.
Our investigator felt that the compensation RSA had offered  was fair in the circumstances. 
She didnt  think she could reasonably attach Ms Ts reported loss of earnings, or need to 
spend savings,  to RSAs failures.  
Ms T was disappointed. She felt that her worth  had been diminished by our findings and was 
unsure how we could know  that the adjuster hadnt just lied to RSA,  meaning that its offer 
was based on false information. The complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and with regret for the 
upset I know this will cause Ms T, Im not going to make  RSA pay anything  more.
I think RSA failed Ms T here. And I can see that RSA accepts that is the case. I understand 
Ms Ts concerns about what the adjuster  may or may not have  told RSA during its 
investigations. I think he did try to defend his actions and the time the claim took  but I also 
accept that RSA wasnt persuaded or mislead  by his comments. Its final response  is brief but 
it acknowledges the concerns Ms T had laid out to it in some  detail  and refutes the adjusters 
suggestion that the claim took so long because it was complex. Also I can assure  Ms T that 
the level of compensation RSA offered in that letter is not the type of payment I see insurers  
Ref: DRN43569163offering every day. It is a considerable amount and I think it reflects RSA accepting that it 
really let Ms T down  on this occasion.  
Ms T shouldnt have been left to stay in the caravan. But I do have to bear in mind that its 
far from clear what would have happened if the adjuster had dealt with things better. I note 
the location of the property, and I know from other complaints Ive considered,  that finding 
six-month lets, and which will accept more than one pet, in that type of location is never 
simple. So Im not sure that it would have been  possible  to find this type of alternative 
accommodation for Ms T. And whilst I know she would have looked  for another job, and 
maybe taken an offer from her old company, if her circumstances had been better  that is 
by no means certain. I accept that she believes this is what would have happened  but 
I think there are a lot of variables that might have impacted her good intentions. For example 
she would  always have  needed to have some  availability for dealing  with the claim even had 
the adjuster taken a stronger hand in managing things, and I can see that she had concerns 
that a new employment situation might not support  that. If I were to make RSA compensate 
Ms T for such a reported loss, Id have to be satisfied that it was caused  directly as a result 
of RSAs failures. Im not persuaded that is the case here.
I do note that the period during which RSAs adjuster was involved in Ms Ts claim was one 
of the busiest on record for insurers for a number  of years. I appreciate that impacted the 
workload of, for example, adjusters, but I dont  think that accounts  for the poor service  Ms T 
was given here. I dont  doubt that Ms T made calls and left messages for the adjuster that 
were ignored. I can see that he often  didnt manage key enquiries in a timely manner  such 
as the authorisation for electrical work. And I can see no reason why he refused to pay 
disturbance allowance in addition to having  paid for the caravan. Its not ideal that he often 
dealt with Ms Ts requests for updates  by copying  her into emails  he sent to others 
requesting action. From a customer service point of view this wasnt  ideal and I understand 
why Ms T felt like she wasnt being treated as an individual. I also think  he often didnt  listen 
to or take account of information that had been available  to him previously  and this did 
affect the course of the claim. For example arrangements regarding  asbestos should have 
been put in place before sending  out the drying company  which in itself had been delayed 
for seemingly no good reason. 
Having considered everything, I think the claim was delayed by about  five months. So Ms T 
would always have  had to live through around  six-months of disruption  and repairs  even if 
RSA had handled things better. Whilst in an ideal world her upset would have been 
minimised by spending the time in suitable  accommodation, and whilst it is clear that RSA 
failed her by not offering to find such for her, it is far from clear that such would have been 
available. The upset  Ms T was suffering though could have been  mitigated to some extent if 
the adjuster had provided a better service. And, as I say, completing the claim in a timely  
manner would have  meant that last five months  of upset suffered by Ms T would have been 
entirely avoided.  That being said Im not persuaded RSA should  have to pay Ms T more 
compensation than the £1,600 offered.
I know Ms T thinks  the amount is too little. I can assure her the figure applied here does not 
seek to diminish her worth. The awards made  by this service  tend to be modest  many  
dont reach  more than £1,000. Whilst we consider each complaint on its own merits we do so 
whilst taking into account our guidance on compensation  awards and bearing in mind 
awards weve made in other cases with similar  circumstances.  Ive done that here and Im 
satisfied that the £1,600 offered by RSA fairly and reasonable compensates for the distress  
and inconvenience  Ive found its failures  caused. 
Ref: DRN43569164I do note that when Ms T responded to our investigators view she mentioned that some  
repairs seem  to be failing  cracks in the ceilings  for example.  I trust that RSA has acted to 
investigate Ms Ts concerns, but if it wasnt aware of them previously, Id expect it to do so in 
response to this decision. 
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 August 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4356916