K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
sometime between 1997 and 2000.  Mr H says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The policy was sold a long time ago, and Lloyds  understandably doesnt have copies of 
the documents from the sale. So theres not enough evidence  for me to say that Lloyds 
failed to make  Mr H aware  that he didnt have to take out the PPI. Or that Mr H didnt 
choose to take it out. I appreciate Mr H says he didnt  consent to the policy and he 
thinks it was added automatically. But I dont think I can place a lot of weight on his 
recollection, given that hes told us he doesnt  recall where or how he took out the credit 
card, or how the PPI was sold to him. 
Ive assumed that Lloyds recommended  the PPI to Mr H  simply because that means it 
had to check that the PPI was right for him. This is a higher standard  than if Lloyds 
hadnt advised him to take it. Here  theres  no evidence  that Lloyds  did check  the policy 
was right for Mr H. But that would  only mean  the PPI was mis-sold  if the PPI wasnt right 
for him. And based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  I dont think  the 
PPI was unsuitable.  For example, Mr H wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have  had a need for it. 
The other insurances Mr H had at the time didnt make the PPI unnecessary.  He had 
health insurance, which covered the cost of some  private treatments  and paid a benefit 
each day he was in hospital.  He had critical illness insurance,  which  would pay out a 
lump sum if he was diagnosed with certain serious illnesses. And he had life insurance 
and level term assurance   which would pay out lump  sums on his death. The PPI 
wouldve paid out in different circumstances  if he was off sick from work or became 
unemployed  and wouldve paid off 10% of his credit card balance for up to 12 months.  
He had a small  amount  of savings, but the PPI wouldve  meant that wouldve been  left 
for other things if hed needed to claim  and he wouldve  had no other way of keeping  
up with his credit  card repayments.  
Its possible  the information Lloyds gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems  like it would have been  useful for him if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Lloyds doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H  because  
I dont think it was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN46477062However, Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr H about  that. Because Lloyds didnt  tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4647706