K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Leeds Building Society (Leeds) mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 2011. The policy  was added to Mr 
Rs mortgage account when he applied for the mortgage in a meeting.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.  
.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint because:
 I think Leeds made Mr R aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose  to take it. I 
can see from notes made at the time that the member of staff emphasised to Mr R that 
buying PPI was a good  thing.  Im not persuaded he was told he must have it  after all 
he was able to say he didnt want some of the insurance offered. Mr R also says the 
description of the PPI as optional was only in the small print on his documents.  Ive 
looked at these and I think the description was clear. And I also think that, given this 
was Mr Rs first mortgage, hed have taken  the time to read his mortgage offer carefully 
and ask about anything he didnt understand, or that didnt fit with his recollections of 
the meeting. I cant see that he did that.
 Leeds recommended the PPI to Mr R, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. 
 Its possible the information Leeds  gave  Mr R about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But Mr R chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover.  He was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy  was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Mr R would have made a different decision if better information had been  provided. On 
balance I think he would  still have  taken out the policy.
Ive taken into account Mr Rs comments,  including what hes said about  the things we look 
for when  working  out whether a policy was suitable. In particular,  as Mr R has asked about 
sick pay, I can confirm that I look at whether  the potential benefit  of the policy  outweighed his 
sick pay and savings.  Ive done that here.  I wouldnt take into account Mr Rs claim  that he 
could rely on friends and family if he couldnt pay his mortgage because  he was ill, as theres 
no guarantee that this would always be an option  for him. 
Mr R also asked about the other things I considered, and I can confirm they are summarised 
above.     
Ref: DRN45016452my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4501645