K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Canada Square Operations Limited, trading as Egg (Egg),  mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2001 Mr L applied for a credit card with Egg. At the same  time, it sold him PPI that helped  
protect his card repayments  if he couldnt  work due to disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr L disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Ls case.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Egg has provided evidence that shows Mr L applied for his credit card and PPI online. When 
it sold the PPI, Egg had to make it clear  to Mr L that it was optional and get his agreement 
before adding it. 
Ive considered the screens Mr Ls likely to have seen during the online application  process. 
These included  a section on PPI. That section  included a box to click on if he wanted  PPI, 
and an equally prominent one to click on if he didnt. Egg has told us Mr L couldnt have 
proceeded any further with his application until he had confirmed whether he wanted to take 
the PPI or not. Eggs internal records of the application indicate Mr L chose to have PPI. So I 
think Egg made it clear  PPI was optional and Mr L agreed  to have it, knowing he had a 
choice. 
I dont think Egg recommended the PPI to Mr L. This means Egg didnt have  to look into 
whether the PPI was right for Mr L. But it should have provided enough information about the 
PPI for Mr L to be able to decide for himself if it was suitable.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think Egg made  all the information  Mr L needed  clear  to him. 
But, importantly, thats not enough  in itself for me to ask Egg to give him his premiums back. 
I must also go on to consider whether Mr L lost out because of those failings. 
Overall, I dont  think better information  would have stopped Mr L from buying the PPI 
anyway. Thats because, from what I know of Mr Ls circumstances  at the time:  
He was eligible  for the PPI. And I cant see that hed have been  affected by any of 
the main exclusions  to, or limits  on, the PPI. 
Mr L says he was entitled to good redundancy and sick pay from his employer. But 
the PPI benefits  would have paid out on top of that and for up to 12 months  per 
claim. Mr L says he had some shares worth about  £1,000  but the PPI benefits meant 
he could have retained them or used  them to cover  his other  living costs if he wasnt 
Ref: DRN47788832working. He has also said he had a small amount of savings but the policy would 
have meant  those savings  could have  remained intact. Overall, I think  Mr L would 
have valued the extra security the PPI provided.
Theres nothing to suggest Mr L had considered the monthly  premium  to be 
unaffordable. And the PPI was flexible enough that Mr L could have cancelled it at 
any time, and at no extra cost, if he no longer wanted it.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr Ls said, including his response to the 
adjudicators assessment.  But, taking all the circumstances into account,  I dont think  hes 
lost out because of how Egg sold him the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4778883