K821x#15complaint
The complaint is that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to Mr C 
irresponsibly.
background
The background to this complaint and my initial findings on it can be found  in my provisional 
decision, which is attached to and forms a part of this final decision.
Sunny responded to the provisional decision to say it had nothing to add, but that it would 
honour its offer to refund  the interest  Mr C had paid on loans  1 and 2.
Mr K replied  to say that he didnt disagree with my findings but asked me to clarify  a couple 
of points. He said it hadnt been  clear whether I had found Sunny was contributing  to Mr Cs 
dependency on payday loans, or whether it knew, or should have appreciated, that Mr C was 
possibly in financial distress and/or a debt crisis at least by the time he applied  for loans 7 
and 8.
The case  has now been returned to me to consider again.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law along with 
relevant regulatory  guidance and good  industry practice at the time.
Neither Sunny nor Mr K say they disagree  with the key findings I made in my provisional 
decision: that Sunny had been wrong to give Mr C loans 3 to 8, but had not fallen short  of 
what was required of it in terms  of giving Mr C advice about  his financial situation. Having 
reviewed all of the evidence again, I dont  intend to depart  from these findings,  but Ive 
thought about what Mr Ks said.
dependence on payday loans
In my provisional decision I noted  that when Mr C applied for loan 3, Sunnys credit checks  
revealed that he had taken out six loans in as many months, so it should have been 
apparent that he had been taking short-term  loans for some  time. 
Having considered this, along with Mr Cs financial situation as evidenced on his bank  
statements, I think its fair to say that he had become dependent  on borrowing from a variety 
of sources by the time he applied  for loan 3. Any lending by Sunny which contributed  to and 
prolonged this indebtedness could be said to have been a part of the overall picture of 
dependence. So I do think Sunny,  in giving Mr C loans 3 to 8, contributed to this, although Id 
also add there were other factors  which were having a negative  impact on his financial 
situation at the time, such as the delays in receiving his student finance.
Ref: DRN41417332knowledge of financial distress or debt crisis
I said in my provisional decision that Sunny  had spoken to Mr C on 1 February 2016 (when  
he was late repaying  loans 4 to 6) and had given him the details of not-for-profit debt 
counselling bodies. I also said that if Sunny had made  further enquiries when Mr C applied 
for loans  7 and 8 it would  have discovered  he had used up all of his student  finance within  a 
matter of weeks of receiving it, by repaying various loans and covering his living costs, and 
that he had no source  of income other than borrowing. 
I concluded that these enquiries  should have led Sunny  to appreciate  that there was a very 
high risk that Mr C would not be able to make his repayments to loans 7 and 8 sustainably,  
and that he was not generally in a financial  position  to take out loans. 
Given what Ive said above, I think its likely  Sunny became aware Mr C was experiencing 
financial difficulty during  the phone conversation of 1 February 2016. I dont think  it would 
have given him information  about  debt counselling  organisations if this was not the case. Its 
possible Sunny  expected  Mr Cs financial situation  to improve  after he received his student 
finance, but I think proportionate  checks when he approached the company  for loan 7 would 
have revealed  there had been no improvement and he remained in financial difficulties. 
I wouldnt go as far as to say that Sunny knew or ought to have known Mr C was 
experiencing a debt crisis, because he doesnt appear to have had other  loans outstanding 
when he applied for loans 7 and 8, but I do think it ought to have known about his general  
financial difficulties. 
Ultimately, none of this changes my findings regarding Sunnys decisions to give Mr C the 
loans in question, but I hope what Ive said above  has provided some  extra  clarity.
putting things right
In my attached provisional decision I concluded Sunny had been wrong to give Mr C loans 3 
to 8. My conclusions remain the same,  and for the same reasons. I therefore direct  Sunny to 
do the following:
Refund all interest,  fees and charges  Mr C paid on loans 3 to 7, adding 8% simple 
interest* to these  amounts  calculated from the date Mr C originally paid them,  to the 
date of settlement.  Because it has already  written  off the outstanding balance of loan 
8, Sunny may not use the refund to repay this balance.
I am not directing Sunny to refund interest on loans 1 and 2, but I note that Sunny has 
confirmed it will be honouring its previous  offer to do so.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take tax off this interest. Sunny must give Mr K 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off, if Mr K asks for one.
Ref: DRN41417333my final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my attached provisional decision, I uphold this 
complaint in part and direct  Elevate  Credit  International Limited  to take the actions outlined 
in the putting things right section of this final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K, on behalf  of 
Mr Cs estate, to accept  or reject my decision before 5 April 2019.
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41417334COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
The complaint is that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to Mr C 
irresponsibly.
background 
Mr C took eight loans with Sunny between June 2015 and March 2016.  Ive included  some of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
Loan DateDate 
RepaidAmountHighest  
RepaymentDeclared 
IncomeDeclared 
Spend
1 29/06/2015 15/07/2015 £100.00 £30.31 £680.00 £50.00
2 05/09/2015 17/09/2015 £150.00 £43.99 £680.00 £100.00
3 28/11/2015 09/12/2015 £100.00 £29.19 £680.00 £150.00
4 18/12/2015 04/02/2016 £150.00 £50.00 £680.00 £100.00
5 20/12/2015 04/02/2016 £100.00 £83.33 £680.00 £0.00
6 23/12/2015 04/02/2016 £100.00 £165.69 £680.00 £100.00
7 27/02/2016 22/03/2016 £100.00 £30.10 £1,000.00 £250.00
8 02/03/2016 Written Off £50.00 £46.78 £1,000.00 £300.00
The loans were all intended  to be paid in instalments over about  six months,  but Mr C usually  repaid 
with larger lump sums ahead of schedule. Some of Mr Cs loans overlapped with one another  thats 
to say that he sometimes had more than one loan outstanding at a time. Where this was the case, the 
highest repayment in the table above is the combined  repayment he would have needed to make to 
Sunny in a month.
Mr C had some  difficulty  making his initial repayments for loans 4 to 6 on time, but later repaid all 
three on the same  day.
Late in May 2016, Mr C died. His last loan was outstanding at the time and no repayments had been 
made. His relative, who Ill call Mr K, later complained to Sunny that it had lent to Mr C irresponsibly. 
Mr K said Sunny had not carried out enough checks before lending to Mr C  he noted that Mr C had 
been unemployed and reliant on a combination of his student loan and payday loans to meet  his 
everyday living costs.  Mr K said that it would  have been more appropriate  for Sunny to refer Mr C to 
debt counselling than give him loans.
Sunny disagreed that it had lent irresponsibly to Mr C. It said it had carried out various checks, 
including with credit reference agencies  and Mr C himself, to determine  if he could  afford  the loans.  
Based on the information it had gathered, it had thought the loans  were affordable.  It noted  that when 
Mr C had called to discuss  a late payment, it had signposted him to free debt advice from debt 
charities. Sunny did however  offer to refund all the interest Mr C had paid across all of his loans, as a 
gesture of goodwill.  Sunny also wrote off the outstanding balance on the last loan.
Mr K then asked this service  to review the complaint.  The most  recent assessment by one of our 
adjudicators found Sunny  had not carried  out thorough enough checks  before giving Mr C loans 3 to 
8. Had Sunny carried out an appropriate level of checks, our adjudicator  concluded it would have not 
lent Mr C loans 4, 7 or 8. Mr K questioned this assessment   he said essentially that Sunny would  
have seen a worse  financial  picture  than wed suggested,  had it made better enquiries into Mr Cs 
other short-term  lending or examined his bank statements. 
No agreement could be reached and the case has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN41417335my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide provisionally whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken into account  the law along with relevant 
regulatory guidance and good industry practice at the time.
Before agreeing to lend to Mr C, Sunny  had to check if he would  be able to repay  what  he owed 
without undue  difficulty.  It needed to do this in a way which  was proportionate to the circumstances.  It 
then needed to assess whether  based on the information it had gathered  from its proportionate 
checks  Mr C could afford to make his repayments sustainably.  Payments are sustainable if theyre  
made from income or savings, and while meeting other reasonable financial commitments.
Sunny appears  to have checked with credit reference  agencies before agreeing  Mr Cs loans. These 
checks included determining the balances  of Mr Cs other short term loans and how many hed taken  
out recently  along with enquiries  into whether he was solvent and what his monthly  repayments 
were on other credit. Not all of these checks were carried out for each loan. Sunny also asked Mr C to 
report his monthly  income and various  categories of expenditure  on his applications. These 
categories were rent/mortgage, utilities, food, transport, credit  and other. Mr Cs declarations are 
listed in the table earlier in this decision.
adequacy of Sunnys checks  for loans  1 and 2
When Sunny  considered Mr Cs application for his first loan, it was informed by a credit reference 
agency that he had £427 outstanding  in other credit. Mr C said on his application that he had no other 
credit commitments, but had up to £50 per month in other expenditure  and a monthly  income of £680. 
At first sight, there appears to be some inconsistency in the information Sunny  received, as Mr C said 
he had no credit commitments but the credit  reference agency said he did. However, it seems likely 
that the credit commitment picked up by the agency was Mr Cs agreed overdraft  with his bank.  This 
is not something I believe Mr C would necessarily  have  thought to include when  declaring his credit 
commitments as he was not expected to make fixed monthly repayments  instead he was charged a 
variable amount for using his overdraft which was then taken from his account  at a later date. Most  
recently, this had been a charge of £26. This was small enough not to affect  the apparent affordability 
of loan 1, so I think even if Sunny had clarified  what Mr Cs other credit  commitments were, this 
wouldnt have made a difference in terms of its decision to lend to him.
I dont think anything else about the information it received from its credit searches or Mr C himself 
would have concerned Sunny at this point  and based on this information loan 1 appeared to be 
affordable. Overall I conclude  Sunny  was not wrong  to give Mr C this loan.
When Mr C applied for loan 2 he reported the same income but increased  his expenditure  to £100.  
Sunnys credit checks picked up Mr Cs overdraft again, but also showed  an outstanding balance of 
£260 on short-term lending accounts. If Sunny  assumed that the £260 outstanding  would be 
repayable in one amount, then Mr C would  still have appeared to have enough money to make his 
expected repayment for loan 2 and have a significant  amount  left over. So I dont find it was wrong  to 
give him this loan either.
loan 3 onwards
Our adjudicator concluded  Sunny should have made more  in-depth enquiries when Mr C applied for 
loan 3. Im inclined to agree. This was Mr Cs third loan in five months from Sunny so it seemed  he was 
running out of money on a fairly  regular basis. Sunnys credit checks also showed  that when Mr C 
wasnt borrowing from Sunny,  he was borrowing from other short-term  lenders  the credit reference 
agency Sunny used  reported  hed taken out six loans in as many months.  So really it should  have 
appeared to a responsible lender that Mr C had needed to take short-term loans every  month for some  
time  suggesting a prolonged cash-flow  problem. Short-term loans of the kind provided by Sunny  are 
not designed or advertised as being suitable to resolve longer-term financial problems.
Ref: DRN41417336Mr C had declared expenditure  of up to £150 per month on his loan 3 application  and the results of 
Sunnys credit checks indicated he had £168 outstanding to other short-term lenders.  This should 
have left him with enough  money to make his highest contractual repayment  of £29.19 and have 
almost half his reported  income left over. However  I think a responsible lender  would have realised  
that this didnt  make sense  in light of Mr Cs borrowing  history as evidenced in the credit search 
results. I appreciate Mr Cs expected  repayments were very small. But I do think  in light of my 
comments above, that it would have been proportionate for Sunny  to have tried to get a better 
understanding of his financial situation to determine whether these products continued to be suitable  
for him  and whether he could  make his repayments in a sustainable way. This would have involved 
getting documentary evidence  of Mr Cs finances (e.g. bank statements) and asking more  detailed 
questions where appropriate.
I think  Sunny should have continued  to carry out robust and detailed checks of the kind Ive 
described, for all of loans 4 to 8. For loans 4 to 6, which were taken over a span of five days, I say this 
for essentially the same reasons as I explained for loan 3. For loans 7 and 8 I would  add that Mr Cs 
repayment difficulties  on loans 4 to 6 should have given  Sunny  additional cause to be concerned that 
he was unable to afford the credit he was being given. 
Mr C had also by this point told Sunny on a telephone call that he was using his student finance to 
repay his loans, and Sunny had spoken to him about getting free money advice. Mr C being  a student 
was not necessarily incompatible with his statement  that he was receiving £1,000 per month from 
employment when he applied for loans 7 and 8. But I think it represented another  reason for Sunny to 
make further enquiries into his circumstances before agreeing to lend him further amounts, as it 
suggested these might have changed.
what would proportionate checks  have shown  for loans 3 to 6?
Had Sunny  made  further enquiries before agreeing loan 3 for Mr C, I think it would have discovered  
he had recently become a student  and was unemployed. This doesnt necessarily  mean that Sunny 
shouldnt have lent to him at all. After  all, many students receive funding in the form of grants or loans  
which are to be repaid only when their earnings  reach a certain  threshold. Such funding could be 
used to service or pay down a persons more expensive  debts.
Mr C did receive student funding, but this appears to have been delayed and had not arrived by the 
point he applied for loan 3. In fact, it didnt arrive  until February 2016. In the meantime, Mr C had no 
income and was borrowing  from individuals and short-term lenders to cover his normal living  costs. 
I think  Sunny would have discovered this situation had it carried out proportionate checks. And I think 
it would have  concluded it was not responsible to give Mr C a loan during a period in which he had no 
income from which to make his expected repayments. Sunny would have noted that Mr C would likely  
need to borrow (possibly from elsewhere) in order to cover his repayments  and that this is not a 
sustainable way of repaying credit.
In light of what Ive said above, I dont  think Sunny  was right to give loan 3 to Mr C. I take the same 
view for loans 4 to 6, as Mr Cs circumstances were the same over this period and I think Sunny ought  
to have discovered this.
what would proportionate checks  have shown  for loans 7 and 8?
Mr C received just under  £5,000 in student funding on 3 February 2016   this included back-dated  
amounts for the previous  academic term. He used these funds to repay  loans 4 to 6 from Sunny, 
along with a number  of other loans  hed taken from individuals and short-term  lenders. Mr C also paid 
his rent, and some other regular living costs. By the time Mr C had repaid his loans from individuals 
on 16 February 2016 he had gone overdrawn on his bank account  by £23  leaving him with about 
£425 until his next student finance instalment  (which  was due in about a month and a half). Ten days 
later he was within £30 of his overdraft limit and he then applied for loan 7 the following  day.
Ref: DRN41417337I think  if Sunny  had made further enquiries here it would have appreciated that there was a very high 
risk that Mr C would  be unable to make his loan repayments sustainably. Mr C had exhausted the 
funds from his student finance, was almost at his overdraft limit, and had no source of income other 
than borrowing. I dont think it would  have considered Mr C was in a financial position to take out 
more loans   and would  have again  concluded it was not responsible to lend to him. It follows that I 
dont think Sunny should  have agreed loan 7 for Mr C. My view is the same for loan 8, for which  Mr 
Cs circumstances were unchanged.
referral of Mr C to debt counselling
Mr K has said instead of offering Mr C loans,  Sunny  should have referred  him to debt counselling. Ive 
considered Sunnys contact  with Mr C, including  notes of telephone calls Mr C made to Sunny.  For 
one call on 1 February 2016 the following note was made: Free money  advice given,  followed  by the 
names of two not-for-profit  debt counselling companies. It appears no recording of this call is 
available, so I cant be certain of what was said, but it looks  like Sunny  did at least mention to Mr C 
that he could obtain free advice about his finances and gave examples of companies he could 
contact. In some of the emails Sunny sent to Mr C when he fell behind on his repayments,  it provided  
a link to a list of similar companies  which it said he may wish to speak to.
I understand Mr Ks position  is that Sunny should have taken a more  active role in referring Mr C to 
debt counselling. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules and guidance at the time said Sunny 
should have taken appropriate action if there were signs Mr C had actual  or possible  repayment 
difficulties. The FCA went on to say that such actions should generally include   providing 
contact details  for not-for-profit debt advice bodies. It also said Sunny  should have warned Mr C 
about the risks of escalating debt.
I recognise Mr Ks views on this issue, but based on the note of the conversation it had with Mr C, and 
the text of some  of the emails I can see it sent to him, I think Sunny met its obligations under the 
FCAs rules and so did what was expected of it at the time. Ultimately I dont find that it did anything 
wrong here.
putting things  right
Sunny shouldnt  have given Mr C loans  3 to 8. This means its not fair that he should  have had to pay 
interest, fees or charges on these loans. So to put things right I intend to direct Sunny to:
Refund all interest, fees and charges  Mr C paid on loans 3 to 7, adding 8% simple interest* to 
these amounts calculated from the date Mr C originally paid them, to the date of settlement.
As Sunny  has already  written off the balance of loan 8 and is not seeking repayment of this from Mr 
Cs estate  Im not intending to direct  Sunny to use the refund to repay  this loan.
Sunny has also previously  offered to refund the interest Mr C paid on loans 1 and 2. As I dont think  
these loans were irresponsibly lent it wouldnt be fair or reasonable of me to direct Sunny to provide 
these refunds. However, I would invite Sunny  to consider  honouring its offer and ask that it tells me of 
its intentions regarding this in response to my provisional  decision.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Sunny  to take tax off this interest.  Sunny must  give Mr K a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off, if Mr K asks for one.
  
Ref: DRN41417338my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained in this provisional  decision, I intend to direct Elevate  Credit International 
Limited to take the actions  outlined in the putting things right section above.
I now invite  both parties to the complaint to put forward any further arguments  or evidence they want 
me to consider, by 4 February 2019.
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4141733