K820x#14complaint
Miss W says Provident Personal  Credit  Limited,  trading  as Satsuma, irresponsibly lent to 
her.
background
This complaint is about four loans Satsuma provided to Miss W between March  2017 and 
April 2018. Miss Ws borrowing history  is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountCombined  
Monthly
Repayment
1 19/03/2017 03/07/2017 3 £300.00 £147.60
2 24/06/2017 05/10/2017 3 £500.00 £246.00
3 21/08/2017 15/09/2018 12 £1,500.00 £495.00
4 17/04/2018 16/07/2018 10 £700.00 £389.00
In the most recent review  of this case, our adjudicator upheld Miss Ws complaint about 
loans 3 and 4 and thought these loans shouldnt  have been given. Satsuma havent 
responded to this and so the complaint  was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN43846822There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Miss W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint. In the most recent review,  our 
adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint about  loans  1 and 2. Miss W seems to have 
accepted this, so as these loans are no longer in dispute, I havent considered these further. 
However, I have looked at all of Miss Ws loans when considering her borrowing history with 
Satsuma. 
Satsuma says it carried out income and expenditure checks before lending Miss W any of 
her loans. But when  Miss W was given loan 3, she still had loan 2 outstanding, and when 
taking out loan 4 she still had loan 3 outstanding. The payment for loans  3 and 4 combined 
with the loan repayments Miss W already  had to make now meant that she had to pay a 
significant proportion  of her monthly income to Satsuma. And the affordability  assessment 
carried out by Satsuma at the time Miss W applied for these loans showed that they would 
not have been affordable for her. In these circumstances,  there was a significant risk that 
Miss W wouldnt have been able to meet her existing commitments without having to borrow 
again. So, I think its unlikely Miss W wouldve been able to sustainably  meet  her 
repayments for loans  3 and 4. 
So, Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 3 and 4 and Satsuma should put things 
right.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss W paid on loans  3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 3 and 4 from Miss Ws credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Ref: DRN43846823For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ws complaint. Provident Personal 
Credit Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4384682