K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent her money  that she 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mrs B took out one instalment  loan with Satsuma in December 2015. Mrs B was due to 
repay the loan by 52 weekly repayments of £26.79.
Mrs B doesnt consider  that Satsuma did enough to assess whether the loan was affordable 
for her. Mrs B says she was in a debt crisis  and couldnt afford to borrow  more money.
Mrs B wants  Satsuma  to clear the interest  off the loan leaving her with the principal to repay.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mrs Bs complaint be upheld.  Mrs B disagreed so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should  fairly  and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN47991002I think that its important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mrs B could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Office  of Fair Tradings Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint.
Satsuma has given  us evidence that it asked  Mrs B for details of her income, housing costs,  
financial commitments  and other outgoings before  agreeing  to lend each time. As well as 
this, Satsuma has told us that it included safeguards to reflect  information  gathered  from 
credit searches.
Given the relatively modest  proportion of Mrs Bs declared monthly income that the loan 
repayments represented, I consider that Satsumas  checks went far enough. Based on what 
Satsuma knew about Mrs B, I dont think it was unreasonable to agree to lend to her. 
Although Mrs B says that she had a history  of poor credit management, I cant say that this 
was reflected in the checks that Satsuma  carried out.
I wouldnt have expected Satsuma to go as far as independently verifying the information  
that Mrs B gave by asking  to see bank statements for example. This means that even 
though Mrs Bs financial situation was worse than shed disclosed,  I dont think that Satsuma 
would have discovered this with what I consider to have  been proportionate checks. 
Im sorry  that my decision  is likely to disappoint  Mrs B but I dont require Satsuma to write off 
any unpaid interest  on the loan.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN47991003
Ref: DRN4799100