K820x#14complaint
Mr A says that Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him two payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policies.
background
I issued my provisional decision in December 2018,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms 
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr As complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mr A nor Lloyds sent me anything further to consider.         
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions             
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
copy of provisional decision
This complaint is about  two credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI). Mr A says
Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him the two PPI policies.
Lloyds doesnt know when the PPI was sold. The credit cards were set up in October 1995. The 
earliest date for which  weve seen PPI appearing on Mr As credit  card statements is January 2000.  
Mr A says the PPI was in 2000   and as I have nothing  to suggest  this was not the case, I think this is 
likely to be right.
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN48657342Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr As case. I currently dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Ill explain why.
Lloyds hasnt been able to confirm how the policies were sold but it says it would  have made  the 
optional nature  clear and got Mr As consent. Mr A says the PPI was added without his knowledge, 
and that the optional nature wasnt made clear. I have limited information about the sale,  but due to 
the length  of time thats passed, this is perhaps not surprising. As Mr As credit cards were  set up in 
1995, and he says his PPI wasnt added until 2000, I think he wouldve known  PPI was an optional 
product and separate to the credit cards.
Lloyds has provided copies of some of Mr As credit card statements and I can see that the charge for 
the PPI was shown as a separate entry. If Mr A didnt  know what this was, or hadnt agreed to taking 
out the PPI, he couldve  raised it with Lloyds  when it started appearing  on his statements. But theres 
nothing to suggest that he did. On balance I think its more likely Mr A chose to take the PPI knowing 
it was optional. But I understand why, given how long ago the PPI was sold,  he no longer remembers  
agreeing to it.
Mr As representative says Lloyds pressured  him into taking the PPI. But he hasnt given us any 
details about what Lloyds said or did to make him feel this way. Pressure can be subjective,  and what 
one person thinks is pressure another may not. I have to also bear in mind that Mr A in a later 
submission says the PPI was added without his consent.  So based on everything Ive seen I dont 
think its likely that Lloyds pressured  Mr A into taking  the policies.
Lloyds has assessed  this complaint on the basis it recommended the PPI to Mr A. This puts a greater 
responsibility on Lloyds, so in fairness to Mr A I have also assessed it as a recommended sale. This 
means it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example  he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover.
Mr A says he wouldve  he wouldve received  statutory sick pay (SSP) at the time of sale. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of any SSP he wouldve  received  and for up to 12 months if he was too ill 
to work.  It also wouldve covered him for up to 12 months if he lost his job. So I think the PPI could 
have been useful for him.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But I 
think he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  like it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable.  So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
my provisional  decision
I dont currently think the PPI policies  were mis-sold.  I now invite Mr A and Lloyds Bank Plc
to give me any further information they want me to consider  before I make my final decision.
This must be provided  to us by 14 January 2019.
Ref: DRN4865734