K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the sale, in 1999, of a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy 
to support a store card.  Financial Insurance  Company Limiteds (FICL) taken 
responsibility for the sale which  was made  on its behalf.
background
Mr K applied for the store card and the PPI at the same time.  The policy provided, among 
other things,  disability and unemployment cover to help protect  his store  card repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  As Mr Ks former  
representative didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings, the complaint  was passed to 
me to review  afresh.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Ks case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The evidence in this case is quite limited. When Mr K sent us his PPI questionnaire 
(PPIQ) in February 2017 he said he couldnt remember  when the PPI was sold but that he 
assumed it was around the time of the birth of his first child in 1999.  He said the sales 
assistant filled out the form and asked  him to sign it at the end.
FICLs provided a copy of Mr Ks signed  application  form.  In the section headed Payment 
& Purchase Protection it says:
Payment & Purchase  Protection covers  your Account Card repayments  in the 
event of sickness, accident, accident,  involuntary  unemployment, hospitalisation, 
accidental bodily injury  and death. Plus, 12 months  Purchase Cover protecting 
purchases made with your Account Card against  accidental damage and theft.
Yes, I want my Account covered by Payment & Purchase Protection  Insurance 
(subject to eligibility). Please debit my Account with the relevant monthly  premium  
until further notice. 
Below this text was a box marked Cardholders Signature . Mr Ks signature  appears  in 
the box. So, on balance, I think it likely Mr K was aware  he had a choice about taking the 
PPI and that he still chose to do so.
Having considered all of the information, including what Mr Ks said,  I dont believe FICL 
made a personal  recommendation  to him to take the PPI. Rather FICL alerted Mr K to 
the fact that he could  take out the PPI and gave him information about it.
The information FICL gave Mr K should still have allowed him to make  a properly 
informed decision about whether to take out the PPI. I dont know  for certain  whether it 
did that, but I dont  think knowing  more about the PPI would have put him off buying it. I 
say that because, from what hes told us about his circumstances  at the time:
Ref: DRN42356662He was eligible for the PPI and wasnt affected by the main  things  it didnt cover  or 
made it more difficult to claim for.
He was entitled to sick pay for a time but had no other means of meeting his card 
repayments if he was off work. But a successful claim  on the policy  would have paid 
out on top of his sick pay and for longer. And the PPI covered him for unemployment  
too. So I think  the PPI would  have  provided  a useful  benefit for Mr K in his situation.
Theres nothing to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable for him. And it was flexible  in 
that he could have cancelled it at any time if he decided  it was no longer suitable  for 
him.
Overall, I dont  think Mr Ks lost out because of how FICL sold him the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4235666