K820x#14complaint
Mr Fs unhappy  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) declined  a balance  transfer.  
 
background
Mr F says he requested a £4,000 balance transfer onto his credit  card which  had an 
available balance of £10,000. He also had a maximum credit score  and no negative  
information on his file with a credit  reference agency. He doesnt understand why the 
balance transfer  was declined. 
Bank of Scotland said in its final response that declining the requested balance transfer 
wasnt a result of a bank  error. It was because Mr Fs credit  score didnt meet  its 
requirements. But Mr F had been  incorrectly told he could appeal the decision. To put this 
right and for the inconvenience caused  itd paid £50 into his account.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
Mr Fs credit file doesnt show any obvious  negative information. But Bank of 
Scotland has explained Mr Fs credit score didnt meet  its requirements.  It also said it 
takes into account information Mr F provides,  whats on his credit file and what  it 
already knows about him. It uses this information to predict  the risk its taking if it 
lends money to him. And its decision doesnt mean its received any adverse  
information from credit reference agencies or that Mr F is a bad payer. Its just that he 
didnt meet its risk profile at that time.
Bank of Scotland doesnt have  to disclose the reason it declined Mr Fs balance 
transfer request  as this relates  to its lending criteria.  That isnt information  given  to 
customers as its sensitive  business information.  Although he understands Mr Fs 
frustration, Bank  of Scotland hasnt done  anything wrong. 
Mr F remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. He says he has other 
financial products  with Bank of Scotland and is a long standing  customer with no issues. He 
feels it owes him an explanation rather than hiding behind regulations.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Fs frustration when  his request for a balance  transfer  was declined by Bank 
of Scotland not least as he was along  standing customer  with no apparent issues  and 
appears to have had an exemplary  credit  score and no issues  on his credit  file.
But the simple  fact is that Bank of Scotland  is entitled to decide who it lends money  to and 
the criteria it uses to make a decision.  This is an example of it exercising its commercial 
discretion in which we wouldnt  normally get involved. In addition  its entitled to set its own 
lending criteria. Theyre commercially sensitive and it isnt obliged to disclose them  or the 
exact reasons  for declining Mr Fs request. Taking  everything into account  I dont  think  Bank 
of Scotland has done anything wrong  in that regard.
Ref: DRN48399692But the bank has acknowledged it gave Mr F some  incorrect information about  being able to 
appeal its decision.  And its paid him £50 compensation for any inconvenience caused.  I 
think thats fair.
Overall I dont think I can fairly or reasonably now require  Bank  of Scotland  to pay or do 
anything more. And although  I recognise  Mr Fs strength of feeling,  I dont  see any reason  to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019. 
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4839969