K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
to Mr S. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1997.  Barclays sold Mr S the 
policy at the same time that he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr S and his representatives  have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
Mr S has said the PPI was added  without his knowledge or consent. He says the tick that is 
on the credit  card form, and which shows an application for PPI, is not his; and he says it is a 
distinctly different type of tick. 
I have seen many application forms with ticks,  and often the style of tick differs even when it 
is not disputed  that the customer made  all the ticks. I recognise it is possible that someone 
else ticked the box without Mr Ss knowledge after he had signed the form. However,  it 
wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened  unless there was reasonable supporting  
evidence. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something  
wrong, fairness requires  that the person making  the allegation should present evidence  that 
this probably did happen.  It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt do 
something, especially when it was such a long time ago. 
I realise this puts Mr S in a difficult position, but I have to do what is fair. And I think that, 
although not conclusive, the evidence as it now stands suggests that Mr S did agree to take 
PPI, even if he doesnt now remember it so many  years later. Without  stronger evidence,  I 
cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mr Ss consent.  
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr S, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  based  on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The PPI could  have helped  pay the credit 
card bill for a period  longer than Mr Ss employment sick pay. And it would have paid out at 
the same  time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mr S more financially secure 
for longer. It would have meant Mr S wouldnt need to fall back  on other  resources so soon.  
So, overall, the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  And I 
cant see any other reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
Barclays gave Mr S  about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been.  But I dont think, 
Ref: DRN49087262in his circumstances, full information  about  costs and benefits would have affected whether 
he took the PPI, given  his level of sick pay and other resources  at the time. And it doesnt  
look like hed have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, and 
so Im not awarding  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4908726