K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the level of his premium on renewal of his motor  insurance policy  with 
Aviva Insurance Limited.
background
In March 2018, Mr Gs premium for motor insurance  with Aviva was £307.32. Mr G says that 
in August 2018, he told Aviva about  his new, temporary address and in October 2018, he 
added another  named driver to the policy and paid an additional premium of £70.39.
Mr G says that in January  2019,  in advance  of renewal in March 2019, he asked Aviva for a 
renewal quote  and it quoted £648.32.  Aviva  said that the annualised premium for Mr Gs 
insurance in 2018,  with the addition of an additional named driver,  was £577. 
In February 2019,  Mr G told Aviva his new, permanent address and asked it to remove  the 
two named drivers.  Aviva  quoted £533.62  for renewal. Mr G felt he had to pay that amount, 
as the renewal date was imminent.  
Mr G says that his new address is only one mile away from his old address  and his van is 
locked in a secure  compound, so the premium increase  is outrageous. He wants  this service 
to take up the matter  with Aviva. Mr G also wants a refund of £226.30 (the 2019  renewal 
premium of £533.62 less 2018 premium at the outset of £307.32).
In response to Mr Gs complaint, Aviva provided a quote on the same basis  as Mr Gs policy  
in March 2018 - so adding a named driver and changing Mr Gs address back  to his original 
address. The new quote was £355. Aviva said this suggests  that these factors affected the 
2019 premium and if these matters  hadnt changed, he wouldnt have faced such a large 
increase in premium.  It offered Mr G compensation of £50 in relation to the service  hed 
received, which  he didnt accept. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. He didnt  think that Aviva had acted 
unfairly. The investigator said that the increase in premium was in line with Avivas 
underwriting criteria and it had charged  Mr G the same as anyone else in the same position 
as him. 
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He said that hed applied for motor  insurance again 
with Aviva,  giving exactly the same information  hed given in February 2019 and received a 
quote of £344.  
Aviva said that the quote of £344 wasnt directly comparable, as it didnt include breakdown  
cover, was for a lower  annual mileage and a higher excess. It offered to waive  the 
cancellation fee if Mr G wished to cancel his existing policy  and take out a new one. 
Mr G said that hed received another quote  for £425.65   for higher annual mileage and the 
same excess as under his policy, which was still less than hed paid. 
The investigator looked at the matter again but didnt change  his view.  Mr G said that the 
investigator had ignored the second  quote  hed obtained, which had higher annual mileage 
and the same voluntary excess as his policy. He said that Aviva  had taken advantage of his 
situation and overcharged him. 
Ref: DRN40478142As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr G has very strong feelings  about  this matter. This service  isnt the regulator. 
That means that I have  no power to direct Aviva  generally about  how it does business. But I 
can look at whether Aviva treated Mr G fairly in relation to the renewal premium. 
When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large  number of
risk rating factors. In other words, they assess the level of risk each  policyholder poses and 
the likelihood of them  making  a claim in the future by looking at many  different factors.  It 
might help if I give just a few examples  of the hundreds of factors insurers  may consider: 
the address of the policyholder; where the vehicle is kept; the policyholders age; the length 
of time the policyholder owned the vehicle and who else is insured under the policy.
Its not for me to tell Aviva what factors it should  take into account when assessing risk, nor 
how to go about those  assessments.  Thats essentially a matter  of commercial  judgement  
and its not something  with which  we would usually think  its fair to interfere.
Aviva has provided me with information to show how Mr Gs 2018 and 2019 premiums 
were calculated. That information is commercially  sensitive, so I cant share  it with Mr G. I 
know that is frustrating for Mr G but, having looked  at it carefully,  Im satisfied that Aviva   
treated Mr G in the same way as it would treat other policyholders in similar 
circumstances. So, I think it calculated his premium  fairly.
In Mr Gs case, two of the factors that led to an increase in the 2019 premium were  Mr Gs 
new address and the fact that the 2018  policy was initially for him and his spouse  and the 
2019 policy was only for him. As insurance  is essentially an assessment of risk, I dont think 
theres anything wrong with Aviva deciding what it thinks falls into higher risk groupings.  
And Ive seen that Aviva took into account  that Mr Gs vehicle was no longer kept on a 
driveway but in a locked compound. 
I appreciate that Mr G felt that he had to accept  the quote but he could have taken out 
insurance with another provider. 
Ive looked at the later quotes  Mr G received but Mr G isnt comparing like with like. The 
quote for £344  isnt directly comparable. Aviva  said that it didnt include breakdown cover, 
was for a lower annual  mileage and a higher excess. Mr G didnt dispute that. 
Ive also looked  at the later quote for £425.65. Aviva  says that was for a different product 
type  one where it asks fewer questions of the customer and rates the policy  on its own 
data. There are also differences  in that quote which may account for the difference  in 
premium, for example, Mr Gs stated occupation. 
In any event, pricing is dynamic and whilst Aviva agreed a price with Mr G for a year, 
theres no guarantee that it would quote exactly that price again subsequently, even if all 
other factors remained the same. 
Ref: DRN40478143Theres no basis on which to direct Aviva  to refund to Mr G the difference  between  the 2019  
and 2018 premiums. Those policies covered different risks and there was no guarantee that 
the premium would remain the same.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr G but there are no grounds on which  to uphold  his complaint.     
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4047814