K821x#15complaint 
Mr Vs unhappy with the way Lloyds Bank PLC has dealt with a chargeback on his basic 
current account.
 
background
Mr V paid for a website  but later found  out the business that was meant to build it was a 
fraudulent company. He instituted  a chargeback  through Lloyds who credited his account 
while it raised the dispute. But as the payment had in fact gone through another  third party 
money transfer company the chargeback was defended and Lloyds later debited  the money  
from Mr Vs account.
Mr Vs unhappy about this as it caused his basic current account  to go overdrawn.  He says 
this caused him to incurring charges and being  unable to use the account.  And he says it led 
to his credit  file being adversely affected. He also says Lloyds shouldve  realised  and told 
him that the chargeback wouldnt  be successful  as it was being  made  against  the money 
transfer company.  
Lloyds said in its final response that prior to a call on 29 May 2018  Mr V experienced poor 
customer service  in relation to his debit card dispute  claim. It apologised for this and had 
paid him £100  for this as an apology  for the inconvenience hed been  caused plus £36 for 
his call costs. Following  that date the dispute  claim was processed and it was challenged by 
the money transfer company which said it had provided the service it was expected  to. 
Lloyds also said its staff isnt permitted to give advice or opinion  regarding raising a dispute  
or the potential outcome. And it cant agree Mr V shouldve been told at the outset that his 
claim would likely be rejected.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. He said:
Mr Vs account statements dont show any charges or interest being applied  for him 
going overdrawn. He was also still able to make payments  with the account.
Lloyds was required to debit the money in line with the chargeback rules. It acted 
fairly after his account  went  overdrawn.
When Mr V contacted Lloyds on the phone to raise the chargeback dispute he told 
the advisor that the payment was made through the third party  money transfer 
company. So Lloyds shouldve been aware that the dispute  would be raised against 
that company  and would be unlikely to be successful as no one disputed that the 
transfer had been  completed correctly. 
Lloyds shouldve made clear the dispute  would be against the money  transfer 
company. If itd done so Mr V wouldve expected the dispute  to be unsuccessful  and 
likely wouldnt have continued with it. And Lloyds should pay Mr V £70 compensation 
for this. But Lloyds did tell Mr V that the dispute  could be unsuccessful and if it was it 
would debit the money from his account. It acted  fairly  by subsequently doing  so.
Lloyds says its already  paid Mr V £100  compensation  and £36 for his call costs which is 
more than the investigator has recommended.  This was for all elements of the complaint.
Mr V remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review.
Ref: DRN46401872my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds paid Mr V a total of £136  compensation and call expenses  for the way it dealt with up 
to the 29 May 2018. It says this covers  all aspects of his complaint but I dont think  that is the 
case. This payment was not expressed  to be in full and final settlement of his complaint. And 
I think it related to the delays that occurred  in him being dealt with up to that point.
But Mr V had raised another issue which is that he wasnt properly advised by Lloyds about 
the dispute clearly  being against a money transfer  company and the consequences  of that. 
Lloyds didnt uphold  that part of his original complaint and said its advisor  couldnt  give 
advice or opinion regarding raising  a dispute  or the potential  outcome. And it said it couldnt 
agree it shouldve told Mr V at the outset that his claim would likely be rejected.  
Although I accept Lloyds  couldnt advise Mr V, I do think he shouldve reasonably been 
given more detailed  information about how his dispute would be raised with the money  
transfer company  rather than the business hed engaged to provide a service to him. And 
that if the money transfer company had correctly  followed his instructions to pay the service  
supplier that might lead to the dispute being  unsuccessful. I think Lloyds  couldve  explained  
the chargeback  process and what the results might be better and in more  detail.
Had it done so I think Mr V wouldve likely concluded that his chargeback  request wouldnt 
be successful as it was made against the money  transfer company which had acted 
correctly. And I think it wouldve been more likely  that he wouldve decided not to go ahead 
with it at that stage,  than not. But he wasnt given that information and as a result 
experienced more  distress and inconvenience in having to continue dealing  with matters 
after 29 May 2018. As that was reasonably avoidable and caused by Lloyds failure  to 
provide fuller  and more  adequate information I think its fair Mr V should be paid an additional 
£70 compensation  over and above  the £136  its already  paid him.
Overall I think  the investigators proposed resolution  of this complaint is fair and reasonable. 
And I dont  see any reason to change the proposed  outcome in this case.
Ref: DRN46401873my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr V an additional 
£70 compensation.
Lloyds must  pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr V 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds  to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr V 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4640187