K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms D are unhappy that Legal  & General Insurance Limited (L&G) declined their 
buildings insurance  claim for storm damage.
background
Mr and Ms D reported storm damage to their roof after corrugated iron sheeting, which  was 
covering and fixed to their flat roof, had lifted at the front. They believe this damage was 
caused by high winds, so they made  a claim under  their home  insurance  policy.
L&G sent out a surveyor to inspect  the damage. He noted only the front part of the sheeting  
had lifted from the flat roof. He explained the drip edge on the felt at the front of the flat roof 
was rotten  which  was allowing water to get into the wood   making it soft and weak  at the 
point where the attached sheets had lifted.  He said the affected fixings  could no longer 
withstand strong winds. 
The surveyor said the fixings further  along the roof had remained strong because they hadnt 
been affected by the decay  which is why the sheeting didnt lift completely. He also pointed 
towards the extra force that would  have been  applied to the rear fixings  after the front part 
lifted and was blowing  in the wind  yet the rear fixings remained in place. So, in his view,  
had there  not been a long-term  maintenance issue with the front part of the roof, the high 
winds wouldnt have caused  the sheeting to lift, just as it didnt lift at the rear. 
L&G therefore declined  the claim on the basis the damage wasnt  the result of an insurable 
event. However, it offered  Mr and Ms D £50 for the delays in communicating the outcome. 
Unhappy with this response,  Mr and Ms D brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator reviewed  the matter but she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
She said that, whilst  there was evidence of strong winds on the reported  date, the evidence  
from L&Gs surveyor supports the view that the weather conditions simply highlighted an 
existing problem with the maintenance of the roof. So, she thought  the main cause of the 
damage was wear and tear of the roof materials.
Mr and Ms D disagreed with our investigator. They said they didnt think they could have 
reasonably known about the maintenance issues on their roof. They also said the reason the 
sheets didnt completely  come off was because part of the roof was in a protected position, 
so it wasnt exposed to the high winds. As Mr and Ms D disagreed with our investigator, the 
matter has been  referred  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that the complaint shouldnt  be upheld. I appreciate this is likely to be 
disappointing for Mr and Ms D  but Ill explain my reasons for reaching this decision.
When considering  a storm complaint, this service generally takes  into consideration the 
following questions:
has it been proven  on balance,  there were storm conditions on or around the date the 
problem occurred?
Ref: DRN42726892is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with damage caused by storms?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the problem?
If the answer  to all these  questions is yes then the claim is likely to succeed.  But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is no then the claim for storm damage is unlikely to 
be covered.
Mr and Ms Ds policy doesnt define  the term storm which isnt unusual. At this service we 
take the view that a storm generally includes violent winds,  usually accompanied by rain, hail 
or snow. I can see that L&G have reviewed  the weather reports from the date mentioned  
which show that there were severe  gale force gusts  up to 50mph. Therefore, Im satisfied  
there were storm conditions at the time of the damage.
L&G also hasnt said the lifting  of corrugated iron sheeting on a flat roof is inconsistent with 
storm force winds, and in my view, it follows that this type of damage is consistent  with high 
winds. However, I would still need  to be persuaded  the winds were the main cause of the 
damage that occurred   and thats not the case here. 
Although Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ds observations about  the area of the roof that was 
protected, overall,  Im more persuaded by the expert opinion  of the surveyor  who attended. 
This service generally places more weight on the opinion  of experts, and I havent seen or 
been told anything  that leads me to doubt  his conclusions. His explanation  is logical  in my 
view, for why only part of the sheeting lifted, despite  the additional force being applied to the 
fixings that remained in place. I have also seen photos, showing the decay, which  supports 
what he says. 
Therefore, Im persuaded that the storm was not the main cause of the damage,  but rather it 
merely highlighted an existing wear and tear problem that had developed over time. So, for 
this reason Im satisfied  L&G fairly  declined the claim. 
Ive noted Mr and Ms Ds comments about  inspecting their roof and why they think this is 
unreasonable. I do understand the point they are making about  not being  able to get on to 
the roof to inspect it. But Im sorry to say that doesnt matter here. The policy terms 
specifically exclude  damage thats occurred gradually; or as a result  of general wear and 
tear, or maintenance issues.
Finally, from what  I can see it took over a month from the date the roof was inspected  for 
L&G to decline the claim. Im aware  that L&G has offered £50 to Mr and Ms D for the delay 
in communicating  its answer about their claim and, in the circumstances, I think  that offer is 
fair. So, Im not asking  L&G to increase this offer. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Ms D, but for the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2020
Jenny Giles
Ref: DRN42726893Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4272689