K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) gave him 
loans that he couldnt afford to repay. He asks that it refunds interest  and charges and 
removes information about the loans  from his credit file.
background
Mr B took out four instalment loans with Satsuma in 2016, as follows:
Loan Date of loan Amount of 
loanInstalment amount and term Date repaid
1 11/08/2016 £500 £36.83p/w over 26 weeks 09/09/2016
2 09/09/2016 £1000 £51.03p/w over 39 weeks 12/09/2016
3 22/09/2016 £1000 £38.27p/w over 52 weeks 29/11/2016
4 29/11/2016 £1000 £166p/m over 12 months 30/11/2017
Mr B says Satsuma didnt carry out affordability checks. He says he had numerous other 
loans, defaults,  late payments  and a low credit score. He says he applied  for loans 
immediately after repaying  the previous loan. Mr B says this led to depression  and financial 
hardship and Satsuma wasnt sympathetic when told about this and his difficulties repaying 
the last loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She said:
Satsuma made  sufficient checks before offering the first loan. While it should have made 
further checks before offering loans 2 to 4, if it had, its likely it would have assessed the 
loans repayments  as affordable. 
Satsuma offered to assist Mr B when he had difficulty repaying  loan 4. But Mr B didnt 
take up its offer of a payment arrangement. 
Mr B asked  for an early  settlement  figure for loan 4. This is valid for 30 days. Satsuma 
didnt have to agree to it being paid over a longer period.  
Mr B didnt agree. He made comments on the adjudicators view which Ive considered in my 
findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
loan 1 (August  2016) and loans 2 and 3 (September 2016)
Satsuma asked about Mr Bs income  and expenditure before offering  loan 1. The information  
Satsuma received suggested Mr B would have been  left with disposable monthly income of 
about £675 to meet the weekly  loan repayments of about £37. 
Ref: DRN41877562Mr B repaid  loan 1 early and took out loan 2 the same day. Loan 2 was repayable in weekly  
instalments but Mr B repaid it within a few days of taking it out. He took out loan 3 ten days 
later.
Satsuma asked about Mr Bs income  and expenditure before offering  loans  2 and 3. Mr B 
said his monthly income was £2,100  and his expenses (housing, financial commitments  and 
other) were about £1,100.  Satsuma increased Mr Bs expenditure to £1,360. The information 
Satsuma received suggested Mr B would have been  left with disposable monthly income of 
about £740 to meet the weekly  loan repayments of about £51 and £38. 
I think given Mr Bs stated income and the amount of the loan repayments  these checks  
were proportionate. I think it was reasonable, based  on the information Satsuma received, to 
assess these loans  as affordable.  
The adjudicator said Satsuma should have  made  more checks before offering loans 2 and 3. 
I dont think it needed to do so. But the outcome  of this complaint  is the same  either  way: the 
adjudicator said that had Satsuma made  more  checks it would still have assessed the loan 
repayments as affordable.
loan 4 (November 2016)
Mr B repaid  loan 3 early and took out loan 4 the same day. He hadnt  made  payments for 
loan 3 on time. This was Mr Bs fourth loan without a significant break. I think Mr Bs pattern  
of borrowing  and his difficulty in maintaining repayments for loan 3 should have alerted 
Satsuma to a possible  problem and the need  for more checks. I think it should  have asked 
for information to gain a full understanding of Mr Bs financial circumstances. While there are 
different ways of doing this, one is to look at his bank statements, as Ive done.
Mr Bs bank  statements  show  his monthly  income in late 2016 was about £2,300.  He paid 
what appears to be monthly  rent of £550.  Theres a monthly payment of £200 to a debt 
collection business. Mr Bs other  outgoings  (including groceries, cash,  clothes, toys,  phone,  
card accounts and going out) total about  £850  in September,  £800  in October and about 
£900 in November 2016. 
There are monthly payments of £203 to a short term lender. The bank statements we have 
copies of dont  suggest that Mr B had other short term loans outstanding when he took out 
loan 4. Mr B says he had another  loan with a short term lender  but I havent  seen  evidence  
that this would have made  loan 4 unaffordable. 
I think if Satsuma had made further  checks,  it would have assessed Mr Bs monthly 
expenditure, including on his short term commitments,  as about £1,850. This would have left 
him with about  £450 to meet the repayments of £166 for loan 4. So I think it would have 
assessed the loan as affordable. 
Mr Bs comments
Mr B says Satsuma didnt make any checks.  Thats not right.  Satsuma asked Mr B about his 
income and outgoings to assess  whether the loans were affordable. While Mr B says 
Satsuma didnt do credit checks,  his credit report shows searches by a Provident group 
company on the dates  that he took out loans 2, 3 and 4.
Ref: DRN41877563Satsuma says it used  credit reference  agencies to verify Mr Bs stated income and check his 
stated expenditure.  It says the information it received suggested Mr Bs expenditure was 
higher than stated  for all four loans so it used the higher amount. 
Its not clear what further information Satsuma received from its credit checks. Its unlikely  its 
credit check  would have  provided the same amount of information  as Mr Bs credit report. 
Mr Bs credit  report shows eight defaults.  These are for personal loans, credit card accounts  
and short term loans.  The most recent  was April 2015. This was more than a year before 
Mr B took out loan 1. If Satsuma did know about  these  defaults this doesnt mean it couldnt 
lend to Mr B, so long as its checks were proportionate and it was satisfied the loan was 
affordable.
While Mr B had other short term or instalment loans  this doesnt mean that Satsuma couldnt 
lend to him, provided it was satisfied the loan was affordable. 
A pattern of taking out loans on the same  day or shortly after repaying  the previous loan can 
suggest a problem  such as reliance  on short term loans  or financial difficulty. Mr B took out 
instalment loans, paid them off early  and then took out a new loan. But I dont there  was an 
established pattern  of borrowing that would have alerted Satsuma to a problem when Mr B 
asked for loans 2 and 3. 
Mr B says Satsuma should  have  made  further  checks and the information on his credit file 
and his pattern  of borrowing should have alerted it to a problem. Lenders have to assess  
whether a loan is affordable using suitable information. But checks must  be proportionate 
depending, for instance, on the size of the loan, the repayments and what  the lender  knows 
about the customer. I think the checks made by Satsuma were  proportionate for loans 1 to 3. 
As Ive said,  I think the combination of Mr Bs borrowing pattern and the missed payments 
for loan 3 should have alerted Satsuma to the need for more checks  before it offered loan 4. 
But I think it would have  assessed the loan as affordable if it had made  more  checks.
Mr B says he had problems with gambling and depression when  he took out the loans. But I 
dont think Satsuma could  have known this. 
Satsumas response when Mr B had difficulty repaying loan 4
Mr B asked for the payment dates for loan 4 to be changed. Satsuma responded to this and 
said if the payments  were  too much  Mr B should contact it about a payment arrangement. It 
made a number of offers  to set up an affordable payment arrangement throughout January 
to June 2017. Mr B didnt  contact Satsuma to set up an affordable  payment arrangement  
he told it what he intended to pay and when and what he considered was affordable.  
When two consecutive payments were  missed Satsuma cancelled the continuous payment 
authority and asked  Mr B to contact it to make payment.
Mr B asked Satsuma for a reduced  settlement offer in August 2017.  Satsuma offered to 
settle the loan for a reduced amount. It said this could be paid in instalments provided it was 
paid within  30 days. I think this was reasonable. 
I dont think Satsuma treated Mr B unfairly, based on the information  it had. It offered  to set 
up an affordable arrangement and offered a reduced settlement. 
Ref: DRN41877564From what  Mr B has said, his circumstances were difficult when he took out the loans. But I 
dont think Satsuma knew this. I dont think, in the circumstances, its fair and reasonable to 
require Satsuma to refund interest and charges or amend Mr Bs credit file. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4187756