K820x#14Complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with a car she got using  finance from FirstRand  Bank Limited trading as 
Motonovo Finance (Motonovo). She says the car had various issues when she got it and she 
wants to reject it. She also says it wasnt serviced for several years when she expected  it to 
be from the description she saw.
Background
In May 2018  Mrs B got a used car from a dealer. The car cost £5,395 and the full amount 
was financed with a hire purchase agreement from Motonovo. The car was around seven 
and a half years old and had covered around  67,025  miles.
Shortly after getting the car Mrs B says she began to have problems  with it and contacted  
the dealer. She says the brakes  were  juddering,  the radio crackled,  the windscreen washers 
didnt work  and the air conditioning wasnt functioning. Shortly after this she said an engine  
management light came  on. And, she says the car hadnt been serviced for several years.
The dealer  offered to service the car, complete an MOT and fix the issues. Mrs B was 
unhappy with this and complained to Motonovo. She said she wanted to reject  the car.
In June 2018 Mrs B took the car to a garage. The garage later contacted Motonovo  and said 
the brakes were  satisfactory but the pads very low. It said the radio  and Bluetooth werent 
working and that the screen washers  werent functioning. It said in their opinion  there  was a 
boost leak from the front of the car. And, it said it didnt believe it had been recently 
serviced.
In July 2018 Mrs B took the car to another garage.  It said the brakes needed  new pads and 
discs, the radio  needed a new aerial base, a pipe from the screen wash  was disconnected 
and the air conditioning  needed re-gassing.
Later in July Motonovo issued its final response  letter. It said the issues  with the car were 
commensurate with its age and mileage  - but the dealer had agreed  to repair them  which it 
thought was reasonable. It said it wouldnt allow Mrs B to reject  the car. There has been  
some confusion over whether Motonovo upheld the complaint or not  but it now says it did.
Mrs B was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold  the complaint. She said she didnt think the car had been misrepresented as it 
wasnt advertised with a full service  history.  And she said she thought the car was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Mrs B disagreed, so the complaint was passed for an ombudsmans decision.  While awaiting 
a decision Mrs B told us she had found out the engine  management  light was due to faulty  
connection showing a number plate bulb was out. She said shed paid over £300  to have the 
brakes repaired. And, recently Mrs B told us the car has broken  down  due to a problem with 
the head gasket.
The complaint was passed  to me to decide.  I sent Mrs B and Motonovo  a provisional 
decision on 5 February 2020. This explained that I initially thought Motonovos offer to put 
things right was fair. My findings from this decision  were as follows:
Ref: DRN49853232This complaint is about a car acquired  using  a hire purchase agreement  which  is a regulated 
financial product. The supplier under this type of agreement in this case is Motonovo.  So, I 
can consider Mrs Bs complaint against Motonovo  in this case.
Was the car misrepresented to Mrs B?
Mrs B is unhappy because she believes the car wasnt serviced for several years when she 
was expecting it to have been  fully maintained.  Shes sent in a copy of the service book, 
which was last stamped  in 2013. The dealer said this doesnt mean  that the car wasnt 
serviced, only that the book wasnt stamped. Ive also considered that one of the garages  
Mrs B took the car to said they didnt believe the car had been recently serviced.
For a misrepresentation  to have taken place, Mrs B must have been told a false  statement 
of fact about the car. If she was told that the car had been regularly serviced with everything 
up to date, I would consider  this to be a false statement of fact.  So, Ill think  about whether 
this was the case, or whether I think the car was mis-described  to her.
Ive seen the advert for the car that Mrs B saw before she bought it. This says the car has 
service history. Theres an important difference between a car being described as having a 
service history, as Mrs Bs was, and a car being described as having a full service  history.
If a car is described as having a full service history  then I would expect a record  of all 
services, with those services being done  in line with the manufacturers  guidelines. But, the 
advert didnt say this. It said, service  history. This means I would expect the car to come  
with a history of some servicing  which Mrs Bs did. I know it mustve  been disappointing for 
Mrs B to find out the car hadnt been serviced  as she was expecting.  But, I havent seen 
anything that makes me think she was told the car had a full service history.
Ive also considered that it appears  Mrs B had access to the service book when she got the 
car  so she couldve seen the service history at the time. Thinking about all of this, Im 
satisfied the car wasnt misrepresented or mis-described to Mrs B. So, I dont think 
Motonovo need to take any action  on this point.
Was the car of satisfactory quality when it was supplied?
Mrs B has complained about several issues when she acquired the car. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 explains that Motonovo, as the supplier, had a responsibility to 
make sure it was of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what  a reasonable person 
would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. When  thinking  about this, I would 
consider relevant factors in this case to be, amongst others, the cars age, price, mileage 
and description.
I need to consider that Mrs B got a second  hand car that was around seven and half years 
old. It had covered over 67,000 miles. And, the price Mrs B paid was a significant amount 
less than the car wouldve  cost when it was new. So, I think a reasonable person wouldnt 
have expected the car to be in perfect  condition. I think a reasonable person wouldve 
expected the cars condition to reflect its age and mileage.
Mrs B said that the brakes were juddering in the car and is unhappy  with this. Brakes are an 
important part of a car and any problems  can be a safety issue,  so if there  was a fault with 
these I might consider  that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. But, brakes are also a part 
of a car that is subject to wear  and tear, so I wouldnt expect these to be in perfect, or 
Ref: DRN49853233necessarily even good condition on a car of this age and mileage. It wouldnt be unusual for 
a used car to have  brake pads that are worn.  So, Ive considered  if the brakes were road 
legal and safe.
One of the garages Mrs B took the car to shortly  after she got it commented on the brakes. It 
said, REQUIRES NEW DISCS AND  PADS,  DISCS  HEAVILY SCORED AND  5MM RUN 
OUT. I can also see an email from one of the garages Mrs B initially took the car to sent to 
Motonovo. In this they say, the brake pads were very low. But they also say, as a (sic) 
MOT centre I checked the brakes and found them to be satisfactory.
So, it sounds like the car ideally  needed  new brake  pads and discs. But, as I explained 
above, these are parts of the car I would  expect to suffer from wear and tear. An MOT centre 
found the brakes to be satisfactory. So, while not in good condition, I think  its most likely 
these were road legal  and safe when Mrs B got the car. So, I dont think this meant the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality due to the brakes.
Ive thought about the fact that the aerial  needed  a new base mount which  meant it crackled 
in use. I appreciate this must have been  annoying for Mrs B. But, I wouldnt have expected  
the car to have  been in perfect condition. Im satisfied  this was a very minor issue  on a used 
car. So, I dont think this meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Mrs B says the climate  control didnt work when she got the car. One of the garages Mrs B 
took the car to shortly  after acquiring it said that the air conditioning system needed re-
gassing. Air conditioning systems will need  this doing at various times throughout a cars 
lifespan and Im satisfied  this would be classed as routine maintenance. 
I think its likely the issue Mrs B had with the air conditioning was due to the system needing 
maintaining, rather  than a fault. Ive considered that the car wasnt  advertised with a full 
service history  so I think a reasonable person  might have expected  some  maintenance  to 
need carrying out. Thinking about everything, I dont  think  the fact that the air conditioning 
needed re gassing meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Mrs B says an engine management light came  on the day after she got the car. This could 
potentially show a serious underlying issue. But, Mrs B says she later found out this was due 
to a faulty connection and the light showed  a bulb was out on the number plate lighting. Ive 
looked at a video Mrs B sent in while the case was with us showing issues with the car. I can 
see a warning light on the dashboard  and from looking at the cars manual, it does appear 
this warning light could  come on due to this issue. On balance, I think this was a warning 
light rather than an engine management  light. This is a very minor fault. So, I dont think this 
meant the car was of unsatisfactory quality  due to this issue.
Mrs B says the car broke down in September 2019 due to an issue with the head gasket. I 
have limited information about this. But, this happened around  16 months after she got the 
car. I think  on balance, its likely  this happened  due to wear and tear, rather  than due to any 
fault or other  issue  present  at the point  of sale.
Ive thought about what the garage  said about  a boost leak from the car. But this hasnt 
been mentioned  again.  I believe this would refer to a potential problem with the turbo. But it 
appears Mrs B was able to drive the car for some time without  this being an issue. It doesnt 
appear to have caused any further problems. So, I havent considered  this further.
Ref: DRN49853234Ive considered what Mrs B said about the windscreen washers not working. This is 
important because, as far as Im aware, this could  be an MOT fail. And, I think this could be 
considered a safety issue, as driving  without  being  able to clear the windscreen could be 
very dangerous. Considering the fault, I think this was a relatively minor issue. But, because 
of the safety aspect, Im satisfied that this issue meant the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality 
when it was supplied.  
In summary,  I think the issues  with the air conditioning, radio,  brakes and head gasket dont 
mean the car was of unsatisfactory quality  when it was supplied. But, I think the issue  with 
the windscreen washer does mean  it was of unsatisfactory  quality. So, I now need  to 
consider what would be reasonable to put this right.
One of the garages Mrs B went to said that the scuttle pipe was disconnected from the 
windscreen washer system. As far as Im aware,  this pipe affects  the drainage of the system 
rather than the spray. But, Im not a mechanic or expert on this car. Its possible that if this 
was disconnected it could affect the overall  operation of the washers.
I dont know for sure if the scuttle pipe was the reason the washers werent  working or not. 
But, either way, Im satisfied this was a minor issue that could be fixed very quickly  and 
cheaply. I say this as, if it was the scuttle pipe, it appears this would only need reattaching 
to solve the problem. And, if it wasnt, Mrs B told us the issue  was sorted by a friend as that 
was a simple fix.
Motonovo said the supplying dealer offered  to fix the issues  Mrs B complained  about,  
including the windscreen washer. She wasnt happy  with this and wanted to reject the car. 
Ive thought very carefully about this. I need to have regard for the law, but I also need  to 
think about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint. I also need 
to consider that at this point, the issue with the windscreen washer has now been repaired 
at, Ive assumed,  no cost to Mrs B.
Generally speaking, consumers can reject  cars that arent of satisfactory quality if they 
request to do so within 30 days of acquiring  them. But, in this particular case, thinking about 
everything, I dont think rejection is a proportionate  way of putting things right. I say this as 
the windscreen washer couldve  been fixed at very little, or no, cost in a very short  amount of 
time. I can see from text messages from the dealer that they offered to do this immediately 
once Mrs B made them aware.  I dont think that allowing Mrs B to give back  the car to 
Motonovo for such  a simple thing  to put right would be fair. Motonovo explained in its final 
response that the dealer  had agreed to put all the issues right, so it didnt think  it needed  to 
take further action.  I agree this was a fair response.
There is some conflicting information  about  whether some repairs have  carried out and 
funded by Motonovo or not. Motonovo say the air conditioning and windscreen washers 
were repaired. Mrs B says they werent. I dont know what happened here. But, either  way, 
the washers have  now been fixed. And Motonovo have confirmed the offer from the dealer to 
repair the original  issues still stands. So, this doesnt  change my opinion.
Ref: DRN49853235Mrs B had the brakes repaired on the car around a year after she got it. Motonovo said it 
would be willing to reimburse the cost of this to Mrs B, as it appears  in the FRL it supported  
the dealer doing this. Even though  I dont  think the brakes meant  the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality,  given Motonovo supported  the repair of these in its FRL I think  it 
would be fair for it to reimburse Mrs B for this.
Mrs B said she paid over £300  to repair the brakes.  Motonovo gave a quote  from the dealer 
for new discs, pads and labour which was for a total of £164.16. I think its reasonable for 
Motonovo to reimburse the cost it wouldve been to get the brakes  repaired  at the dealer, 
rather than what Mrs B paid, as this is in line with its original offer.
Finally, Mrs B has said the car isnt drivable due to the issue with the head gasket and shes 
having some  issues  affording the repayments  on the car. I think it would be a good  idea for 
her to contact Motonovo to discuss her options  going forward. Id expect Motonovo to treat 
her situation  positively and sympathetically.  
I gave Mrs B and Motonovo two weeks to respond  to my provisional decision. Motonovo  
came back  and said it accepted the outcome, but said the dealer shouldnt be held 
responsible for any faults that developed since July 2018. Mrs B also responded. She said 
she didnt agree with the decision and raised  several points.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think Motonovos 
offer to put things right is reasonable. Ill explain why.
In response to my provisional decision Mrs B said she thought the issue  with the number 
plate warning light was an MOT  failure.  As far as Im aware, the warning light came on due 
to a loose connection  not because the light for the number plate wasnt working. Because  
the number plate was illuminated and the warning  light was only in connection to this, I still 
believe this wouldnt be an MOT fail.
Mrs B said that the head gasket issue happened in September 2019. She said she didnt  
drive the car from June  2018 to January 2019. So, she says she only drove  the car for eight 
months before the head gasket issue occurred. She said this means,  had she driven  the car 
from when she got it, the head gasket wouldve failed within  the warranty period. 
Ive thought carefully about this. But, I dont  have any information about  why the head gasket 
failed. I dont know if this was due to mileage, age, a combination  of the two or some other 
factor. I also need to consider that Mrs B didnt  service  the car when she had it. And, the last 
service in the book  was from several  years before  Mrs B got it. Its possible driving the car 
without servicing it affected this. Thinking  about  everything, I still think its likely  the head  
gasket failure was due to wear and tear, rather than a fault present  or developing at the point 
of sale. And I havent seen enough  to make  me think it wouldve gone wrong earlier  had 
Mrs B driven the car.
Mrs B raised some concerns about her warranty. She said she believes this was invalid  as it 
was a condition  that the car should be serviced  when it was taken.  I cant  see that the 
warranty forms part of the credit agreement, so I dont think  Motonovo  are responsible  for 
this in Mrs Bs particular case.
Ref: DRN49853236Mrs B said that she thought the issue with the windscreen washers wouldve been an MOT 
fail. I explained  in my provisional decision that I thought this could be the case  so I agree 
with Mrs B on this point. I still think this means  the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied. But I also still think rejection isnt a proportionate remedy  given this was such 
a simple and inexpensive  issue to put right.
Mrs B also reiterated that she took the car to a garage as requested  by the dealer  but they 
didnt make repairs. Motonovo told us repairs were carried  out. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, I dont know what happened  here. I understand Mrs Bs frustration if 
she took the car in to be repaired and this wasnt done  But I dont think  I need  to make a 
finding on this. As I explained, Motonovo have confirmed the dealer is still willing to repair 
the outstanding issues from the time of supply. So, whether the work was carried out or not, 
this doesnt change my opinion.
Motonovo said it thought the dealer shouldnt be liable for any faults that developed  since 
July 2018. Its worth  pointing out that Im considering  this complaint against Motonovo   not 
the dealer. But that being said, I agree Motonovo shouldnt be responsible for the faults that 
have only developed after Mrs B got the car  namely the head  gasket issue.  This is 
because, as I explained above, I think its likely this was due to wear and tear rather than 
being due to a fault present when the car was supplied.
Having thought about all the details on the case again, along with Motonovos and Mrs Bs 
new comments, I still think Motonovos offer to put things  right is fair, for the reasons 
explained above and in my provisional  decision.
Finally, I think  its worth  reiterating something  I said in my provisional  decision. Given Mrs B 
told us shes struggling to afford the repayments  on the car, I think  it would be sensible for 
her to speak  to Motonovo about  her options going  forward. Id expect Motonovo  to treat her 
positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
My final decision is that I instruct FirstRand Bank  Limited trading as Motonovo  Finance  to 
reimburse Mrs B £164.16. Its up to Mrs B if she wants to contact the dealer about the further 
repairs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4985323