K820x#14complaint
Mr O says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  him a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr O took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in January 2002. He paid a monthly  amount for 
the policy. The monthly premium for the policy was £30.44 and it covered Mr O against not 
being able to work due to an accident,  sickness  or involuntary unemployment.  In the event  of 
a successful claim the policy could have paid a monthly benefit  of £504 for up to 12 months.
Mr O says Santander added the policy to his mortgage without his knowledge.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Os case. 
Santander hasnt  been able to show us the paperwork from the time and has limited  
information about the sale. This isnt unusual and its understandable in view of the time that 
has gone by since  the sale took place. But where there is limited  information, I will make my 
decision based on whats more likely  to have happened, taking into account  the evidence 
available, what  both  parties have told me and what we know about  these types  of sale.
Ive first looked at whether its likely Mr O was given a fair choice about  buying the policy.
Mr O has told us he cant recall the PPI being  discussed and he says it was added  to the 
mortgage without  his knowledge.
The policy insurer has showed  us a welcome letter dated 23 January 2002  addressed  to    
Mr O which  gave some details  of the PPI policy. The insurer has also shown us records  
which suggest Mr O contacted the insurer to amend his employment details on 28 January 
2002. I think this call was likely to have been  prompted by the welcome  letter.
According to the policy  insurer Mr O also called again on 30 August 2003 to inform  it that he 
had changed his lender  and then cancelled the policy on 2 October 2003. I note that Mr Os 
mortgage with Santander was redeemed  in April 2003. So the insurers notes reflect  what  
happened with Mr Os mortgage. The welcome letter and the insurers  record of contact with 
Mr O is persuasive  evidence  that Mr O was made aware of the policy.   
The PPI policy was paid for by monthly premiums taken by direct debit from Mr Os bank 
account. If the PPI was something he didnt want or had not agreed to, Id expect  him to 
have questioned the premiums at an early stage,  but Ive not seen any evidence  that he did. 
Ref: DRN46797732Taking everything into account  I think it is most  likely that Mr O was told about the PPI and 
that it was optional and he agreed to take out the policy, although its understandable that he 
may not recall this after so many years.
Santander recommended  the policy to Mr O so it had to take steps to ensure it was right for 
him. Looking  at his circumstances at the time I think it was. Ill explain why:
Mr O was working and was eligible for the cover. And he wasnt  affected by any of the main  
exclusions or limitations contained  in the terms and conditions. For instance he has told us 
he had no pre-existing medical  conditions that would  not have been  covered. So Mr O would 
have been able to make a successful claim if he needed to.
Mr Os employer wouldve paid him some sick pay. But this policy  could have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and for up to 12 months. So I still think Mr O wouldve found the 
policy useful, especially if he couldnt work  for an extended period.
The PPI would also have  paid a monthly benefit  if Mr O had lost his job, meaning any 
redundancy pay couldve been used  for other living costs.
So I think the policy Santander recommended was right for Mr O. Santander also had to give 
Mr O clear information so he could decide  whether to take the policy out.
I cant know what was said at the meeting in 2002. And it could be that Santander did not 
give Mr O all the clear  information it should have. But Mr O agreed to take out the PPI so I 
think he was interested  in this type of cover. And the policy  was right for him. The monthly 
premiums seem to have been affordable  and competitive with other, similar polices, from 
around that time. So even if Santander  had given Mr O all the clear information it should 
have, I still think it is likely  he would have gone ahead  and taken out the policy.
In summary,  I think Mr O was given a fair choice about whether to buy the policy and he 
chose to take it out. I think the policy was right for him. And even if he was given clearer  
information about the policy hed still have bought it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and make no award  against       
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4679773