K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about the cost of having  to buy extra miles on his telematics motor 
insurance policy underwritten by Aviva Insurance Limited.
Mr M is represented  by his father, also Mr M. For ease of reference, Ill refer to the actions 
and comments of Mr Ms father as being  those of Mr M.
background
Mr M brought a telematics policy through a broker. He called that broker  to validate his policy 
and during the call, Mr M discussed changing  the allowable miles on the policy. 
Mr M disputed what he was told by the broker in this call and complained. That complaint 
was dealt with by another ombudsman, who issued a final decision, not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint against  the broker.
Mr M then complained to Aviva about the cost of the extra miles he needed. Initially  it was 
£105 per 1,000  miles and then it rose to £115  per 1,000 miles. Aviva  said the extra  miles is 
generated via the driving scores and other data recorded by the telematics box. So it didnt 
think it had done  anything wrong.
The adjudicator investigated this and came to the view that as the price is generated by the 
telematics scores and therefore he didnt recommend Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.
Mr M disagreed so his complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Whilst I appreciate Mr M didnt accept the ombudsmans final decision  in his complaint 
against the broker, under the rules  of this service,  I have  no authority to re-visit the issues in 
that complaint  under  any circumstances. Some of the reasons Mr M gave in his rejection of 
the adjudicators  view in this complaint,  go back to the previous  complaint concerning  the 
broker. Consequently, I will not deal with those comments here in this decision.
Its clear from the terms and conditions of the policy that mileage and overrunning your 
mileage allowance  can cause the premium to rise. This is fully discussed in the Policy  
Summary under the headings Changes to your premium and Mileage (this affects the 
premium you pay).  
So Im satisfied it was clear and properly detailed in the Policy  Summary that overrunning a 
mileage allowance  and indeed the necessity  of having to buy more mileage would be 
charged and would affect premium levels. And Im also satisfied the Policy  Summary was 
available for Mr M to read.
With all telematics  policies,  extra charges are calculated via the data received from the box 
and the price is then determined  by the insurers underwriting criteria.  As the adjudicator  
explained the underwriting criteria of any insurer, (Aviva included) is commercially sensitive 
Ref: DRN40525582information. Therefore  this service is not permitted  to share it or put it in the public domain, 
given we publish our final decisions.  
As the adjudicator explained,  this service doesnt  interfere with the price  set, other than to 
ensure its set with reference to the underwriting criteria. If it is, then that means  the price 
would affect anyone in the same position as Mr M, which in turn would mean he hasnt been 
singled out or treated differently. 
Im satisfied from the evidence available that this is the case  here,  that Mr M hasnt been  
singled out or treated differently. The fact that Mr M had to buy several lots of extra mileage 
consequently affected the price. Im satisfied  that would be the same for anyone in Mr Ms 
position.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4052558