K820x#14Complaint
F, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank  UK PLC wont  refund a number of 
payments made from its account which it says it didnt make.
Fs director,  Miss T, has made a similar complaint about payments on her personal account, 
which is being looked at separately  by our service.
Background
I sent F and Barclays a provisional decision on 1 February 2021 to explain why I wasnt  
intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional  decision is set out below:
Generally, Barclays can hold F liable for a disputed payment if the evidence  suggests its 
more likely than not that it made it itself or otherwise authorised someone else to make it.
Barclays has sent us evidence that the disputed payments were  all made using the details 
from the debit card linked  to Fs account.
But the relevant  regulations say that this, on its own, isnt enough to allow Barclays  to hold F 
liable. So I also need to think about  whether the evidence  suggests its more likely than not 
that F consented to the payments in dispute being  made with the card.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case.  But 
where the evidence  available  is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is more likely  than not to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
F has said that fraudsters compromised  Miss Ts phone and so gained access  to her photos, 
one of which was of the card linked to Fs account. And that this is how the fraudsters knew 
the card details. But Ive not seen clear evidence  that Miss Ts phone was compromised, or 
that her photos contained pictures of both the front and back of the relevant card,  which the 
fraudsters wouldve needed  to make the payments.
Barclays has also sent us evidence that most of the payments to the cryptocurrency 
investment companies  that were initially disputed were done from the same IP address as 
an earlier payment  to a mobile phone provider that hasnt  been  disputed and as a number of 
logins to Miss Ts mobile  banking both before and after the disputed  payments. And that 
these payments were  also authenticated by the Verified by VISA  process.
While F has said fraudsters can mimic IP addresses  to make it appear as if activity is coming 
from a different address than it actually is and that the Verified by VISA  process can be 
reset, I havent seen  clear evidence that this is what more likely  than not happened  here. 
And I dont  agree that most of the IP addresses being the same suggests  they have been  
mimicked as, while people do move around, most people tend to do online activity  from a 
few consistent  places. So, in the absence of other evidence, I think  its more likely than not 
that the IP addresses  being the same  as for genuine  activity, suggests these disputed 
payments were also made by F.
Barclays has also sent us evidence showing that a text was sent to Miss Ts mobile  phone  
asking her to confirm one of the further  disputed payments from October 2016. And that it 
received a response saying the payment was genuine. F says fraudsters couldve accessed 
Miss Ts text messages through her email  but, again, Ive not seen clear  evidence  that this is 
Ref: DRN41202762what actually happened here. And Miss T still has her mobile  phone  and is still using  the 
number the text was sent to.
If the fraudsters had compromised  so many of Miss T and Fs accounts and devices, such  as 
phone, email and mobile banking as F suggests,  the payments made also dont match the 
type of activity wed usually expect to see. Generally, fraudsters will remove  as much money 
as possible, as quickly as possible, in order to avoid the source of money being cut-off or 
them being  detected. But the payments  here are for varying amounts, several  less than one 
pound, are spread out over a long period of time - often with weeks or months  between  them  
- and in between genuine transactions.  They  also rarely come close to exhausting the full 
balance available  in the account.
Even if Miss T didnt  check  her accounts  often  and wasnt particularly  aware of the balance  
of the account,  as F has suggested, I think its reasonable  to expect her to have noticed the 
disputed payments before she did. There were more than 40 payments over nearly  a year,  
sometimes with several  over a short period of time that significantly affected  the balance  of 
the account. So particularly as this was a business account for the running  of a small 
business, I think its reasonable to expect that, if F wasnt making or authorising the 
payments, they would have been spotted sooner.
I accept that F has made  a number of detailed submissions  about what could have 
happened and how fraudsters could have gained access  to Miss Ts details and its accounts. 
And I cant say for certain that this isnt what happened. But looking  at the case as a whole, I 
think its unlikely that fraudsters would have gone to the lengths necessary  to do all the 
things F has suggested in order to make the types of payments that were  made.  And, based 
on the evidence  Ive seen, I think its likely F either made the disputed payments, or 
authorised someone  else to do so.
F has raised that a gone  away marker was placed on its account.  And that Miss Ts home  
phone number was recorded incorrectly on Barclays  systems. It said this supports that there 
was fraud  on the account. But I dont agree. Barclays has said,  due to the time passed, it 
cant see why the gone away marker was applied. But they are often  applied  if post is 
returned undelivered. And as Fs account  was set up with a different address  than it has now 
used to bring this complaint, this seems  the most likely explanation to me. Also only the final 
digit of Miss Ts phone number was incorrect, and Barclays still had the correct mobile 
number for her. So I think its likely  the incorrect number was the result of human error. And I 
dont think these points  make it more likely there was fraud on the account.
F has said Barclays  refunded other disputed transactions, and other businesses didnt hold 
Miss T responsible for activity done in her name.  And it considers this to be evidence  that 
these payments should also be refunded. But Barclays has said the other  transactions were 
refunded due to a lack of evidence, rather than because it was satisfied  they werent 
authorised. And Ive not seen all the evidence the other businesses relied on or their reasons 
for their decisions. So I dont consider  these  to be compelling evidence  one way or the other.
So, overall, I think Barclays  has acted  reasonably  in not refunding any further payments to 
F.
I said Id consider anything further F or Barclays sent in following the provisional decision.
Ref: DRN41202763My findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays said it agreed with the provisional  decision and didnt  send anything  further  to be 
considered. F made  several further  points which I will address below.
As in my provisional decision, Ive not responded individually to every point F and Barclays  
have made,  but I have  considered everything theyve sent us and have focused on the 
issues I think are key to the outcome of the complaint.
F questioned why it would try to purchase  cryptocurrency, when this doesnt support its line 
of business. But I dont think the purpose  of a payment being  unusual or unexpected is 
enough to say it is likely to be the result  of fraud.
F also said it was false that Miss T responded to a text confirming one of the disputed 
payments from October 2016 as genuine. But Ive seen copies of Barclays records  showing 
a text was sent to Miss Ts mobile  number and that the payment was confirmed as genuine.
F again  said that fraudsters had gained access to Miss Ts email accounts  and mobile 
banking, and had mimicked her IP address. But it hasnt sent any further  evidence  of this. So 
I still dont agree that the evidence it has sent us clearly shows that these things had 
happened. And I still think its unlikely that fraudsters would have gone to the lengths  
necessary to do all the things F has suggested in order  to make the types of payments that 
were made.
And while F has again said that Miss T didnt check the account often and wasnt particularly 
aware of the balance  of it, I still think its reasonable to expect her to have noticed the 
disputed payments before she did. And that not reporting so many  payments over such  a 
long period of time suggests F was making  or authorising  them.
So, based  on the evidence Ive seen,  I still think its likely F either made the disputed  
payments or authorised  someone else to do so.
I said in my provisional decision that I thought  Miss Ts home phone number being incorrect  
was likely the result of human error, as only the final digit of Miss Ts phone number was 
incorrect and Barclays still had her correct mobile phone  number. If fraudsters  had been  
trying to prevent  Barclays getting in touch with Miss T, as F suggests, I cant see why they 
wouldnt also have changed her mobile  number.
And while Barclays cant say why the gone away marker was placed on Fs account, I still 
think this was likely the result of post being returned undelivered. Post can be returned for a 
number of reasons,  including errors by the postal service. And again I dont think this was 
likely to have been done by fraudsters  as, if fraudsters were  trying to prevent  Barclays  
getting in touch with F, I dont see why they didnt also change Miss Ts mobile  number.
Even if Barclays was at fault for the phone number being incorrect and the gone  away  
marker being placed, F could still monitor its account via Miss Ts online banking.  So I dont 
think these errors by Barclays caused  F significant inconvenience or warrant a payment of 
compensation.
Ref: DRN41202764F also raised  issues its having with one of the cryptocurrency investment companies.  But I 
can only look at whether I think Barclays has treated F fairly  in how its responded to this 
complaint. So I cant  require the cryptocurrency investment company to take any specific  
action, or require Barclays to insist  the cryptocurrency investment company take any action 
either.
So, overall, I still think the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision are correct and I 
dont think Barclays needs to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4120276