K821x#15complaint
Ms B has complained that Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz) mis-sold her a pet insurance 
policy.
background
In 2009, Ms B took out a lifetime pet insurance policy for her pet cat, whom well call P. The 
policy was sold to Ms B over the telephone and is underwritten by Allianz.
Following non-payment  of a claim made under the policy  in early 2019, Ms B complained to 
Allianz about the claim. She also raised concerns about the fact that her recent claims had 
been subject to an additional excess (co-payment) amounting  to 20% of the cost of the 
claim. 
In response to her complaint, Allianz said it didnt think it had done anything  wrong.  It 
explained to Ms B that in terms of her most recent  claim, there was no amount to pay, as the 
amount claimed  was less than the applicable policy excess and co-payment. Allianz also 
explained to Ms B that the details of the policy excess and co-payment were set out in the 
policy schedule and terms and conditions.
Unhappy with Allianzs response, Ms B brought her complaint to our service for an 
independent review. In her submissions,  she said she didnt think  the increases  in the policy  
excess over the years  were  justified and also didnt think Allianz made  it clear  to her that the 
excess would increase as P got older. She felt that the information used to market the policy  
to customers, including certain phrases  used  within the marketing and policy literature, was 
misleading and led her to believe  that all of Ps veterinary expenses would be covered by 
Allianz under the policy. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Bs concerns  and upheld  the complaint in part. While our 
investigator didnt  think  Allianz had done  anything wrong in relation to the way it represented  
the policy to Ms B generally, she didnt think  Allianz  provided sufficient information about the 
long-term costs and possible changes to Ms Bs excess payments as P got older.  To put 
things right, our investigator recommended that Allianz pay Ms B £300 as compensation.
As Ms B and Allianz didnt  agree  with the outcome reached by our investigator, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in December 2020.  In it I explained why I thought Allianz  
should pay Ms B some compensation in line with what our investigator recommended.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision.
Based on what Ive seen  I currently agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and 
will explain  why.
In her submissions to our service, Ms B has told us she thinks  its unfair that the excess  
applicable to Ps policy  has increased  over the years  especially given the limited number of 
claims shes made and Ps general  good health. Ms B has stated  that when she took out the 
policy, she was told that her excess was determined by her postcode and wasnt  told that 
her excess  would increase over the years. She also says she wasnt  told that shed need to 
make an additional  co-payment on all claims when P reached the age of 10.
Ref: DRN42351532Ms B has also stated that she feels P should be insured as an individual and that the risk 
associated with Ps policy should be based  on Ps health  and medical history  and not Ps 
age. Ms B says its unfair that Allianz  assumes that pets can become more  unwell  with age 
and believes  this practice amounts to discrimination of older pets.  She believes Allianz has 
deliberately designed the policy  to limit its liability for claims involving older  pets.
I want to start by explaining  that generally, the cost of insuring  a pet, will increase each year 
as the pet gets older and the cost of medical  treatment rises. So, its not unusual for things 
like the policys premiums  and excesses to increase over the years and for the insurer  to 
introduce co-payments to take into account  the additional risk associated with insuring an 
older pet. Its also worth noting that most insurers, over the lifetime of the policy, will increase 
the policy excess and introduce co-payments as a means of limiting the insurers risk at an 
acceptable level, so as to prevent a situation where the increased risk is reflected solely  in 
any increases to the policyholders annual premiums. 
 
Standard pet insurance policies, usually wont cover any medical  conditions  the pet had or 
had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out or renewed.  So ongoing or 
recurring medical conditions wont be covered. But some pet insurance policies, like the one 
Ms B had, will continue to cover any medical conditions claimed for in previous years,  
provided the policy is renewed  each year. These  are sometimes  referred  to as lifetime 
policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will continue  to be covered  for the lifetime  of the 
pet, as long as premiums  continue to be paid. As the pet gets older, the yearly cost of these 
lifetime policies will increase to take into account the insurers perceived  increased  risk of the 
pet theyre undertaking to insure.
Its also worth stating,  businesses are entitled  to decide on what  terms they wish to offer 
insurance. I dont have the power  to tell a business how it should  be assessing the risk its 
undertaking to insure, the cost of the policy  premiums or the excess  the business  wishes to 
apply to each  claim  made under the policy. If I were to do that, I would be, in effect, 
determining or telling a business how it should operate   and thats  not my role. 
So, I cant say Ms Bs policy excess and co-payment  are too high or that she should have 
been charged less for her excess and co-payment in the past or that she should  be charged 
less in the future. I also cant tell Allianz  that it shouldve  assessed the risk P posed 
differently or that it shouldve based  the cost of the policy  and its excess  on Ps actual health,  
rather than the factors it considered to be relevant, such  as Ps age. In addition to this, Ive 
noted that the terms and conditions of Ms Bs policy, do state that Allianz may change the 
premium and the policy terms and conditions at renewal. So, this is also something Ive had 
to bear in mind  when  assessing Ms Bs complaint.
While its not my role to tell an insurer that its charging too much for a policy excess  and co-
payment, I am able to look at whether an insurer has treated a customer differently to any 
other policyholder in the same position  as that would amount to an unfair practice. Im also 
able to look at whether  the insurer gave the customer  enough  information  to enable the 
customer to make an informed choice as to whether  the policy is right for them. 
Ref: DRN42351533In terms of whether  Allianz treated Ms B any differently to any other customer,  Ive had a 
look at why Ms Bs excess increased over the years and why theres  more  recently  a co-
payment applicable to her policy. I can see that when Ms B initially took out the policy in 
2009, her excess was £65 and that over the years it had increased to £125. I can also see 
that a co-payment  was applicable to the policy from the point at which P reached the age of 
10.
From what  Ive seen, the increase in the excess and the introduction  of the co-payment  were 
based on Ps age and the likelihood of a cat of Ps age needing to claim for illness  or injury  in 
the future.  Allianz has shown us that the same increases would have applied to all policies, 
as the pet got older and it always  introduces a co-payment when  a pet reaches a certain 
age. As a result, I havent seen anything to suggest that Allianz treated Ms B any differently 
to any other  Petplan policyholder in a similar  position. So, I cant  say Allianz has singled her 
out and treated her unfairly  compared to its other customers  or that it should have charged 
her a lower excess and co-payment  in the past or in the future.
Ms B bought the policy  on a non-advised basis.  I say this because I havent  seen anything to 
suggest that Allianz undertook an assessment of Ms Bs circumstances at the time of sale 
and recommended that she take out this particular policy. When selling  insurance  without 
giving advice, providers  need to give clear  enough information so that the customer can 
make an informed choice  about the policy theyre taking out. These rules  are set out in the 
Insurance Conduct of Business Source book (ICOBS).
At the time Ms B bought  her policy ICOBS 2.2.2R said:
When a firm communicates information, including a financial promotion, to a customer  or 
other policyholder, it must take reasonable steps to communicate it in a way that is clear,  fair 
and not misleading.
In order to determine whether Ms B was given sufficient information at the time of sale, we 
asked Allianz to send  us copies of the point of sale documentation, including a recording of 
the telephone call in which the sale took place. Unfortunately,  due to the length  of time thats 
passed between  the sale and the complaint being raised, the recording is no longer available  
for me to listen to. So, Ive had to base  my decision on what  I think  is more likely  to have 
happened at the time of sale.
Ms B has told us that when she took out the policy, she was told by Allianz that the policy 
excess would be dependent on her postcode and wasnt  told that it would  be subject to 
increases over the years. She also says she wasnt told about co-payments and the 
implications these could  have on future claims. Looking at the Welcome  to Petplan letter 
and supporting documentation she was sent following the call in which  the sale took place, I 
can see it does state that the excess was linked to Ms Bs postcode, which  supports what 
Ms B has told us.
As the policy Ms B took out provided lifetime cover, it would be reasonable for her to expect 
to keep the policy for the lifetime of P. So I would  have  expected  Allianz to have made Ms B 
aware of what exactly she was buying  and the long-term costs of this type of cover  
including the fact that the excess would increase over the years and that a co-payment 
would be applicable to future  claims.
Ref: DRN42351534Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think its likely  this was done during the call in which Ms B 
decided to take out the policy. While I can see some information was sent to Ms B following 
the sale, I dont  think  this was good  enough  to make  her aware of the potential  long-term  
costs of the policy at the time she agreed to take it out. 
Allianz has provided us with a copy of the policy summary which  it says would have been 
sent to Ms B following  the sale. Allianz says this would have made  Ms B aware that a co-
payment would apply when  Ms Bs pet reached  the age of 10. While  Ms B wouldnt have had 
access to this document until after shed  agreed to take out the policy, even if I were to 
assume that similar information was given to Ms B during the telephone call, I dont think  it 
would have led her to truly understand the financial implications of her pets age on her 
excess and the co-payment. 
I say this because  this document doesnt mention  anything about the fact that the policy  
excess will increase as the pet gets older. And the section in the policy summary which  talks 
about the co-payment relates to pets which are already 10 years or older (or seven years or 
older in the case  of select breeds and rabbits). It doesnt make it clear  that a co-payment will 
be introduced at a future renewal, when the pet is 10 years  old. As Ms Bs pet was only four 
years old at the time, I think its unlikely she would have thought  this co-payment applied  to 
her and I dont think it was clear enough to allow Ms B to realise how this would impact her 
in future  years.
It follows that I dont think Allianz  gave  Ms B enough information to make an informed 
decision when she took out the policy, so I now need to decide whether I think this 
information would have made  a difference to Ms Bs decision to agree to the cover.
Ms B has told us that she wouldnt have agreed to take out the policy in 2009,  had she been 
told about increasing excesses and the co-payment. She says,  instead, she would have  put 
some money aside in a savings account to cover Ps future  veterinary expenses. While this 
may be how she feels over 10 years after the sale, Ive had to take into account the benefit 
of hindsight and the fact that Ms B now knows that she hasnt had to make many  claims 
over the years and that the claims have involved relatively small sums  of money. Ive also 
had to take into account that its likely Ms B took out this policy,  because she wanted the 
benefit of having lifetime  cover in place and the greater level of cover  it provided. 
Having thought about what  Ms B has said and taking everything Ive said above into 
account, I think its more  likely  than not that Ms B would  still have  agreed  to take out the 
policy in 2009  had she been told about  increasing excesses and the future co-payments. I 
think its worth mentioning at this stage that lifetime  cover policies available  on the open 
market, arent too dissimilar in the way in which they operate. Things  like increasing  
excesses and future co-payments  are relatively commonplace,  so its likely that anyone  who 
wanted this cover would  find themselves in a similar situation to the one Ms B currently  finds  
herself in.
Ms B has provided us with a lot of detailed testimony setting out how shocked and 
disappointed she was to be told that she would  have to cover the cost of Ps most recent 
veterinary bill due to the policys excess and applicable co-payment. Its clear from her 
submissions that this has caused  her great  distress  and that shes  worried  shell  find herself 
in a similar situation when  it comes to future claims.
Ref: DRN42351535In the specific circumstances of this case, I do think that had Allianz  given Ms B better 
information about the increasing excess and co-payment, she wouldnt have been as 
surprised and distressed when  she discovered  the implications of these terms on current 
and future  claims.  So I do think  some  compensation is due to put things right.  
I currently agree with the investigator that £300 would be fair compensation  for the trouble 
and upset Ms B has experienced, due to her not being told about  the long-term costs and 
the inevitable  changes to the policy excess as P got older.
In addition to the points  Ms B has raised about the increasing excess  and introduction  of the 
co-payment, Ms B has also raised some concerns about Allianzs  decision to apply an 
excess to a claim she made in February  2019  despite the fact the claim was in relation to 
an ongoing health condition which P had suffered with in 2018.  Ms B says she doesnt think  
Allianz should have charged her an excess as the claim was related to the two claims she 
made in 2018.  
Looking at Ms Bs policy schedule, I can see that the policy year for Ms Bs policy ran 9 
January each year to 8 January the following year. I can also see only one excess is 
applicable to related  claims, provided  the claim for the ongoing treatment is made within  the 
same policy year as the initial claim. In this particular  case,  while I can see the treatment P 
received in 2019 was linked to the treatment she received in 2018, Im satisfied the claim 
made in February  2019 took place  in a different policy year to the initial treatment. Im 
therefore unable  to conclude that Allianz did anything wrong by charging Ms B an additional  
excess and co-payment  for the ongoing  treatment  P received in February 2019.
Finally, Ms B has said she thinks the information  used to market the Petplan policy to 
customers, including certain phrases used with in the marketing and policy literature, was 
misleading. She says this led her to believe that all of Ps veterinary expenses  would be 
covered, as long as she continued to pay the premiums for the policy.  In support of this, 
Ms B has provided our service with a number of articles and extracts  from online forums,  
where Petplan policies were discussed.
Having carefully considered Ms Bs comments and taking  into account what Ive seen of the 
policy literature, policy schedules and terms and conditions,  Im not persuaded Allianz mis-
led Ms B into believing all Ps veterinary  expenses would be covered. The policy terms and 
conditions sent to Ms B each year, set out a number of exclusions and limitations  and also 
set out the terms  under  which claims would be considered.  Im therefore unable  to conclude  
that Allianz misled  Ms B into thinking  all Ps claims would be paid under the policy terms as 
its clear there are instances where  claims could  be declined or limited.
With regards to the articles and extracts  from online  forums, I cant  comment  on what 
happened in those individual cases.  Without  a full review  of what  happened  in each 
individual case, it would  be both unfair and inappropriate of me to pass  any judgment on 
whether I think Allianz had done  anything wrong.  As a service, the outcome reached on each 
case is based on the individual merits of that case.  This means that my role, in this case, is 
limited to looking into whether I think Allianz  acted unfairly in its dealings with Ms B.
Ref: DRN42351536Due to the limited amount of low-value claims  Ms B has made  over the years, I can 
understand why she feels  the policy didnt represent good value for money. But Id like to 
remind Ms B that insurance is designed  to cover future unforeseen events,  which for some  
policyholders might  include regular high-value claims, and for others,  no claims at all. This 
wouldnt be something the policyholder (or the insurer) would be able to predict when the 
policy is taken out and renewed  each  year.
Its also worth mentioning that insurance  isnt aimed  at providing a guaranteed  return on 
premiums paid  its there for peace of mind and to help a policyholder cover unexpected 
and unforeseen  costs  that may be incurred during the lifetime  of the policy.  So, while  I 
understand why Ms B now feels that she could have saved money by not taking out the 
policy, I cant ignore that over the years  Ms B has had the benefit  of the cover if she had 
needed to make any additional claims. It follows that I do think Ms B has benefited  from the 
cover, despite her concerns  about  the policy  being of limited  benefit to her.
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Both Ms B and Allianz responded to say they disagree with my provisional  findings. 
In her response, Ms B said she was unhappy  with the level of compensation I 
recommended. She said she didnt  think the way in which the policy worked in practice, met 
her definition of lifetime pet insurance  cover. She specifically raised concerns about the fact 
that claims relating  to recurring conditions could  be subject  to more than one claims excess, 
where the claims are made in different policy years. She said she would never  have bought 
the policy had she known that this was the case.
Allianz also didnt  agree with the provisional  outcome I reached,  as it didnt feel it had done 
anything wrong. But it didnt have any further  to add in relation to Ms Bs individual 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about what  both Ms B and Allianz have said, including  what  theyve said in 
response to my provisional  decision, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and 
below, my findings remain unchanged. I still think Ms B would  have taken out the policy  had 
she been given  better  information about the long-term costs  of the policy, and I dont think  
Allianz mis-led Ms B into thinking  all of Ps future veterinary expenses would be covered 
under the policy.  As a result, I think the compensation I recommended in my provisional  
decision is fair. Ill explain why.
In response to my provisional decision,  Ms B says the policy she was sold doesnt  meet  her 
definition of lifetime  pet insurance cover. She believes pet insurance policies marketed as 
lifetime cover, should cover all the insured  pets  claims and insurers  shouldnt  be entitled to 
apply more than one excess to claims made in relation to recurring medical conditions. As a 
result, she believes Allianz mis-sold her the policy and shed like to be compensated 
accordingly.
Ref: DRN42351537As I explained in my provisional decision,  I dont have the call recording from when Ms B 
took out the policy, so I dont know what she was told about  how the excesses would work 
then. But looking at the policy summary  from the time, there isnt any mention of the 
requirement to pay more than one excess  if there are claims for the same condition in more 
than more policy year. So, I accept it is possible  Allianz didnt  make  this clear when Ms B 
took out the policy.
However, I can see that since 2011, the renewal notices Ms B has been sent each year have 
explained how the excess would be deducted in this situation. And if this was different to 
how Ms B had understood  the policy to work, I would have expected her to raise  this sooner. 
Instead, shes continued with the policy. So its difficult for me to conclude that, had Allianz 
made this clearer when it sold Ms B the policy,  she wouldnt have taken it out.  
Based on what Ive seen,  the policy terms do state any claims would be subject to the terms 
and conditions of the policy and applicable  excesses  including additional excesses for 
claims relating to recurring conditions, where  the claims arent all made in the same policy  
year. So, I dont think Allianz has done anything wrong by deducting the excess as it has 
done. 
Id like to assure Allianz that the outcome of this complaint is based on my consideration of 
the merits of this individual complaint  taking into account the information both Allianz and 
Ms B has sent us, including Ms Bs specific testimony and circumstances. My role in this 
case is to assess whether I think Allianz  did anything  wrong  in its dealings with Ms B and 
that is what Ive done.
Having reviewed the points both Allianz and Ms B have provided in support of their appeal  
against my provisional  findings and having reconsidered all the evidence  in its entirety, I 
have come to the same  outcome  for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
Based on what Ive said above  and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Ms Bs complaint.
To put things right, Allianz Insurance Plc must  pay Ms B £300  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2021.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4235153