K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold him credit  card payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
 
background
Briefly:
In 2000 Mr S took out a credit card by postal  application. Soon after and following  a phone 
with Barclays call he took out PPI. The policy was designed to protect Mr S card payments 
in the event he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  It had a 
benefit of 10% of the monthly outstanding  balance  and it would  pay out for up to 12 months 
per claim.
The adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld.  They  said there wasnt 
enough evidence  to persuade them that the PPI was presented as being optional,  so they 
said Mr S should be compensated.
Barclays disagrees, it says its representative wouldve made the optional  nature of the policy  
clear.
The complaint therefore comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
Mr S complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint. My reasons are set out below.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Mr S that he had a choice about PPI  i.e. make  it clear 
that it was an optional and separate product from the credit card hed taken out.
Mr S took out his credit card by postal application.  And Barclays  has provided us with a copy  
of the application. Importantly here I can see there was nothing about PPI  Mr S wasnt  told 
about it or asked to indicate on the application whether he wanted it.
Shortly after Mr S received his approved credit card,  a telephone conversation took place 
between Barclays and Mr S. 
Its not clear what type of call this was  whether it was an outbound or an inbound call. In 
any event, Barclays doesnt have a call recording and it also hasnt got a call script. 
Barclays says its adviser  would have made sure Mr S wanted to take out PPI and would  
have asked him the confirmation question. But Barclays hasnt got any evidence to support 
what it says happened. Im mindful of the passage of time. But in this particular case  Im not 
persuaded I can fairly say it is more likely than not that Mr S was given a clear  choice about 
PPI. 
Ref: DRN43279122Mr S credit card application  made no reference to PPI, so it wouldnt have been in his mind. 
And then shortly after submitting his application  (most  likely soon after he received his actual 
credit card) he took out PPI after a telephone conversation  a conversation which Barclays  
cannot say how it came about  or demonstrate how PPI was introduced  / how it was meant to 
be introduced to Mr S. 
So, for the reasons above and in the particular  circumstances  of this case  Im not persuaded 
I can fairly say Mr S was given a clear choice  about PPI and that he clearly  understood that 
the credit  card and PPI were two separate and distinct products. I therefore uphold  this 
complaint.
putting things right
Barclays should put Mr S in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. I 
understand that Barclays is unable to say what happened to Mr S outstanding  card debt 
including whether or not it was sold to a third-party. Because of this, and to be fair to Mr S, 
Barclays should pay compensation  direct  to Mr S  it should not offset against any debt it 
may or may not still have.  So:
A.Barclays should find out how much Mr S would owe on his credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr S owes and what  he would 
have owed.
If Mr S made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when Barclays works out what Mr S would have owed each month  without PPI  
Mr S paid more than enough  to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mr S wouldve  owed  Barclays  something  on his credit card.  The interest rate should be 
8% a year.
C.Barclays should tell Mr S what its done to work  out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint and I direct  Barclays  Bank UK 
Plc to pay compensation to Mr S in line with the above. I make  no other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Ref: DRN43279123Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4327912