K822xcomplaint
Mrs T complains that Yorkshire  Building Society  (YBS) froze  her savings account and would 
not pay her interest  until she provided  identification.
background 
Mrs Ts representative  noticed that she had not been paid interest  on her account for the tax 
year ending in April 2017. YBS said in July 2018  that this was because the account had not 
been used. It also said that to make the account  active Mrs T would  need  to send in three 
forms of identification.  Mrs T attended  a branch  to provide the identification she had and said 
that this made her physically ill.
Our investigator did not recommend that YBS do anything more than it had already and 
which was to pay Mrs T £100 and send  her a bunch of flowers. She said that:
-YBS had shown  that its common process  after July 2017 was to freeze accounts that 
were inactive  and did not have valid identification  when  it had taken over the account  
from a different business. It did this to comply with regulations and this was not 
something we had a role in overseeing.
-YBS had said that instead of going  to a branch Mrs T could have posted her 
identification documents.
-She did not think that YBS had given a good explanation of why the account was 
restricted in secure  emails sent to Mrs T. 
-YBS had offered £35 compensation for this but had wrongly  said it would not pay this 
until the identification had been provided.  It increased the compensation to £100 to 
reflect this, her travel expenses, time stress and inconvenience. And also sent her 
the flowers.
Mrs T is now represented in this complaint through her son and he holds a power  of 
attorney. He did not agree and said that YBS had made a mistake  in losing the identification. 
YBS took no account of Mrs Ts age (as she is in her nineties and has health conditions) in 
attempting to rectify this. It held her to ransom and would not allow her access  to her money 
until she provided the identification. Given her personal circumstances she did not have  
three forms of identification and in any event did not want to send her disabled badge  in. She 
had to visit a branch  in a wheelchair  and this made her physically sick.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 August 2019. I set out what  Id said.
Id asked YBS for some further information  to help me review this complaint.  It confirmed  to 
me that the policy involved did not apply to its vulnerable customers. But YBS said that 
although Mrs T had referred in a secure  message  to YBS exploiting  the elderly and 
vulnerable she had not given details of any specific vulnerability. She either seemed to be 
mentally capable  from the messages or if these were not written by her this would 
emphasise the need for checks. As the account  required identification it was unable to 
remove the inactive  marker. It was only during  the visit to the branch that she was identified 
as vulnerable and this was recorded on her account. This couldnt have been  assumed 
before from her age. And when she went to the branch only two forms of identification were 
required.
my assessment
Ref: DRN46261942I didnt doubt that when  Mrs T opened this account  in 1999, then with a different business, 
she complied with all the verification  requirements. Her statements show she did not make  
any payments or withdrawals after 2005.  And YBS says it took over this account  from a 
different business  in 2011. 
Its reasonable for YBS to ensure that it complies  with relevant regulations. And to have 
information to identify customers and help protect  them from fraud. I could see that it tried to 
verify Mrs Ts details electronically but this was not possible. And from July 2017  it decided 
that it would  freeze inactive accounts  with no identification as it thought  that there was a 
particular risk of fraud. As our investigator  has said this service is not the regulator so we 
dont have a role in saying  what processes it puts in place.
Clearly in its policy YBS identified that this should  not apply to vulnerable  customers. And it 
now accepts Mrs T is a vulnerable customer.  Alongside the need to know  its customers  
there is also guidance from the regulator about  identifying and dealing fairly with vulnerable  
customers. Id already  put to YBS that Mrs T self identified as vulnerable in the exchange of 
secure messages.  I accepted that YBS could not make any assumptions about  this. But I 
thought that taking a neutral position it was still reasonable  for YBS then to ask her whether 
she had any specific vulnerability  that would make  complying  with its request particularly 
difficult for her. Shes now explained  that given her stage of life she simply did not have  three 
different items of identification  to send.  And she did not want  to be without her blue disabled 
badge. Getting certified copies in my view would have presented similar difficulties to her 
visiting a branch.
I didnt accept as reasonable that once  the marker  had been applied it could not be reviewed 
for Mrs T if she was found to be vulnerable. She says she had no other option but to visit a 
branch. During  that visit she was then identified  as vulnerable. Had she not visited  a branch 
access to her money and even to her compensation was restricted.
YBS has paid some compensation.  But I didnt  think that this was sufficient to take into 
account my findings  about what happened  here. In my view YBS did not act fairly and 
reasonably to Mrs T. I said I intended  to require it to pay her a further £150 having  taken 
account of whats  been said and our published guidance about trouble and upset.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
YBS said it would accept  my decision and now be happy to pay the further compensation.
The representative of Mrs T also confirmed that shed accept the resolution. He had some  
further comments to make  on her behalf which he thought were omissions in my reasoning 
and should be set out. He wanted  it to be emphasised that YBS would not allow  Mrs T to 
close her account either and he thought  it was holding  her savings to ransom. He could not 
see what else she could have done to keep the account active  as it could be opened  with 
just one initial deposit as here. And why she had to provide identification as a result given 
ongoing customers whod provided the same initial identification wouldnt need to. YBS had 
not explained what risk of fraud there was for this account and this should have been 
clarified. He thought that YBS had acted in an insensitive and inconsiderate manner  and had 
made Mrs T ill.
Ref: DRN46261943Ive already set out that we dont have a role in saying what  processes YBS puts in place to 
satisfy regulatory  requirements and to guard against  what  it sees as the risks of fraud.  So I 
wont be saying anything  else about that here. Ive been looking only at what happened to 
Mrs T and I appreciate that freezing her account  meant that she could not close it either. And 
here there was the potential for YBS to be more flexible and sensitive to her specific needs 
within its policies for dealing with vulnerable customers. It had paid some compensation to 
her for this and I didnt  think that was enough. Ive already  taken into account whats been 
said about the impact  on her in determining what fair additional compensation is here. And 
so as a result I do not see any reason  to depart from my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I require Yorkshire Building Society to pay 
Mrs T a further £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4626194