K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained to Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited about the sudden increase in the cost 
of providing his guaranteed minimum pension  (GMP). This meant  that he was unable to 
transfer his pension benefits to another provider because his fund was insufficient to cover 
the cost of providing the GMP. 
 
background
Mr M approached Aviva, via his financial adviser,  in early 2018  as he wanted  to transfer the 
value of his Section 32 pension plan to another provider. However, as Mr Ms plan had a 
GMP attached, the transfer was only possible if the fund value was in excess of the cost of 
providing the GMP. 
In April 2018, Aviva confirmed that the value of Mr Ms pension  plan was less than the  cost 
of providing the GMP. So it wasnt possible for the transfer to take place at that time. Mr M 
queried this with Aviva as the information  hed been given previously led him to believe that 
the fund value was in excess of the plan value  so the transfer was possible. 
Mr M was unhappy with Avivas response  so he complained. He said that the information  
hed been given suggested that the average  GMP increase was 7% p.a. However, while  he 
was trying to arrange for his pension to be transferred, his GMP increased by 2.25% in two 
months  which  is 13.5%  per annum  much higher than the 7% average Aviva had quoted. 
So Mr M believed Aviva falsely  increased  the GMP value to greater than his fund value to 
block the transfer of his plan. Mr M was also unhappy that Aviva  was investigating the 
complaint internally.
Aviva reviewed the complaint but didnt  think it had done anything  wrong.  It explained that 
the figures quoted in April were correct and the cost of providing the GMP had risen  due to 
changes in annuity rates on the open market and the GMP amount increasing in deferment. 
It also explained that it had now received a new transfer request form and this was being 
processed as the transfer value was now higher than the cost of providing  the GMP. Mr M 
didnt accept Avivas findings  so he referred his complaint  to this service  for independent  
review. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint but she didnt think  that Aviva  had done anything 
wrong. She explained  that there are many variables  that can affect the cost of providing the 
GMP and its not for us to comment on or review how the GMP had been valued.  As the 
investigator didnt  think  Aviva had done anything wrong she wasnt upholding the complaint.  
Mr M disagreed with the investigator.  He provided his own breakdown of the GMP value 
over the period in question and reiterated his feelings that Aviva  had deliberately  fudged the 
figures to prevent the transfer. He also said that he still had concerns that that his complaint 
had been investigated by Aviva internally.  
The complaint has been passed  to me to decide. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ive explained why below. 
Ref: DRN45380162Mr Ms pension  was set up to receive a transfer  payment  from his former employers pension 
scheme. His employers scheme  chose  to contract  out of the state second pension  
(commonly known as SERPS).  And because of this his former employer was required  to 
provide Mr M with pension benefits  which were at least  equivalent to the state benefits given 
up. This part of Mr Ms pension was called the GMP. And when the plan was transferred to 
Aviva, it took on responsibility for providing  the GMP. 
The GMP was payable  from state retirement age, which in Mr Ms case was 65. And the 
amount payable increased  by a certain percentage if it was deferred  past the age of 65. 
Aviva can only allow  the plan to be transferred to another provider if the transfer value, 
exceeds the cost of providing the GMP. The cost of providing the GMP is calculated by 
determining how much money is required to purchase an annuity on the open market of 
equivalent value  to the GMP on the policy. But annuity rates on the open market  change 
regularly, just like interest rates change.  This means the amount needed to purchase an 
annuity equivalent to the GMP can go up as well as down. And this in turn has impact on the 
capital sum required  to purchase  the GMP. 
In this case, Mr M believes Aviva falsely increased the cost of providing  the GMP to prevent 
him from transferring his plan to another provider.  However, Ive seen nothing  to support this 
being the case. 
As Ive mentioned  above, the GMP itself would have been  increasing as Mr M had past state 
retirement age. Aviva  told Mr M that after state retirement age, if the GMP is deferred, it 
increases by 1/7th  of one percent per week, which is around 7% per annum. I think  its this 
information thats caused a misunderstanding.  
As I understand it, Mr M has assumed that this meant the value of purchasing an annuity to 
provide the GMP  will increase by this rate. But thats  not the case.  What  it actually means  is 
that the annual payments that Mr M wouldve received from his GMP would have  increased  
by around 7% for each year he deferred taking it. 
In this case, when  Mr M was 65 in November 2017, the annual GMP was set at £2693.08.  
However, 4 months  later  in February  2018 - the annual amount had increased to 
£2750.80. This is an increase of just under 2.3%  over a 4 month period, which is in line with 
the average that Aviva has said it would increase by over a year, that being  7%. I think  the 
misunderstanding has arisen because Avivas letter in February 2018 quoted the GMP as at 
Mr Ms 65 birthday. However,  in May 2018  it quoted the increased value. I think  this could 
have given Mr M the impression that it had increased by just under  2.3%  in a two month 
period; not four months. Avivas letter wasnt incorrect but I can see why this caused  
confusion.  
But this wasnt the only factor  impacting  the transfer going ahead. Before Aviva could allow  a 
transfer it had to determine  how much  it would cost to purchase an annuity  on the open 
market that would provide the higher revalued GMP. It could only allow  the transfer to go 
ahead if Mr Ms fund transfer value was higher  than the cost of purchasing the equivalent 
annuity. 
Ref: DRN45380163The cost of buying a particular annuity will be affected by changes in annuity rates available 
on the open market at any given  time.  And annuity rates  change  regularly because they take 
account of numerous factors, the most  common ones being lifestyle, age, health  and interest  
rates. In addition, the value of units in Mr Ms pension plan would have been fluctuating on a 
daily basis as well, meaning the transfer  value  could change on any given day.  
The situation  Mr M found himself in is very common and isnt unique  to Aviva. I cant see that 
Aviva would have  any vested interest in artificially inflating the cost of providing a GMP and I 
think its explanation  for why the cost increased  is reasonable. So I dont think  Aviva  has 
done anything  wrong here. 
In terms of Aviva investigating the complaint, its required  to do this in order to comply  with 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys  (FCA) complaint handling rules.  The FCA does allow for 
complaint handling to be outsourced to a third party. But there is no requirement on a 
regulated business to do this. And ultimately  if a business hasnt been able to put matters  
right and the consumer  remains  unhappy, they have the option to refer their complaint to our 
service for an independent  review. 
I do hope my above explanation has helped Mr M to understand why he wasnt  able to 
transfer when  he first requested to do so. As Ive not seen anything to suggest that Aviva 
has done anything  wrong, it follows that Im not upholding the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding the complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4538016