K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mr A says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr A says he was led to believe he had to have PPI in order to get the mortgage. From 
what Ive seen,  which includes copies  of Mr As signed mortgage application form and 
separate PPI application form, theres nothing  to suggest  that was the case. I think  RBS 
made it clear that Mr A didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out.
I dont think RBS recommended the PPI to Mr A so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr A got the information he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information RBS gave  Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But it seems he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted  this 
type of cover.  Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover. So it would  
have been useful for him if something went wrong despite his employment  benefits. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  better information about the PPI 
would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mr As lost out because of how RBS sold 
him the PPI.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4892900