K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about his insurer U K Insurance Limited,  trading  as Churchill. Mr S has 
been represented in this complaint and in his dealings with Churchill by Mrs S, who is a 
named driver on the policy. For clarity Ill just refer to Mr S in my decision,  although  I do 
understand a lot of the correspondence has been between Churchill and Mrs S.
Mr S isnt happy about the valuation of his car following a claim on his motor insurance  
policy and the time it took for a hire car to be provided when the claim was made.
background
Mr S made a claim on his car insurance policy after he was involved in an accident. Churchill 
decided his car was a write-off and offered him £3,900. But Mr S said that he wasnt  able to 
buy a similar  car, with similar mileage, for that amount. Mr S said hed paid £4,995 for his car 
the previous year and he needed  the same amount to buy a similar car. 
Mr S complained about this to Churchill but it felt its offer reflected the cars market value. Mr 
S also complained  that it took four days for a hire car to be provided. Churchill said it had 
sourced the hire car as quickly as possible and that some of the delay was down to Mr S not 
being happy with the original providers processes and it therefore  needing  to contact an 
alternative provider.  As it had provided  a hire car within two working days it thought it hadnt 
acted unreasonably. But it did offer Mr S £50 in recognition that it couldve communicated 
more effectively during  the claim and complaint. As Mr S was unhappy with Churchills 
response he asked  our service to look into his complaint.
Our adjudicator looked into things for Mr S but didnt uphold his complaint. He looked  at all 
the motor valuation guides and concluded  that Churchills  offer for the car was reasonable. 
And he also thought  the offer of £50 was fair in respect of the issues  with the hire car.
Mr S didnt agree. He still thinks  the valuation was too low and provided advertisements for 
the sale of similar cars to support this. He also thought the adjudicator  was not acting in line 
with the ombudsman services advertised approach to this type of issue. 
As Mr S didnt agree  the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why. 
When looking at valuations placed  on cars by insurance companies I consider the approach 
they have adopted. And decide  whether or not the valuation  is fair in all the circumstances. 
As outlined  by the adjudicator this service pays particular attention to the various trade 
guides used for valuing  cars, as well as other evidence  provided by both sides.
Ref: DRN48481002This evidence might  include advertisements for the sale of similar cars; although I place less 
weight on advertisements  than on the trade guides. This is because  cars dont generally sell 
for the price at which  they are advertised. The condition  of the car at the time the damage 
occurred is also an important factor to consider.  I will only tell a business to increase  its 
valuation if I consider it is unfair. I think our adjudicator has followed a similar  approach here. 
And although I note Mr S has said that this is not in line with the approach set out in an issue  
of our external publication, ombudsman news, from November 2002  in regard to determining  
market value, I disagree. Ive looked at the publication and can see that it explains there  are 
often genuine  debates  about market value. It goes  on to outline our approach  which is in 
line with what Ive explained. And this is also consistent with more recent information about 
our general  approach  to valuation disputes, available on our website.
In this instance Mr S has said that he has been unable to find a similar car for the price  
Churchill has offered  and has provided advertisements  to support this. Again though the 
information Mr S has provided are advertisements and dont necessarily reflect the price  the 
cars actually  sold for. Mr S also says that his car was in good  condition and has sent us an 
invoice to show that he had only recently paid for a service. 
But the guides have provided  values for his particular make and model of car in good 
condition with similar specification. Valuing cars is far from an exact science and generally 
day to day maintenance  of cars (such  as annual servicing)  doesnt directly affect the overall  
market value.  Churchill had the car inspected  by an engineer and its offer is at the high end 
of the trade guide prices. As such,  I dont  think that Churchill has acted unreasonably.
Turning to the issue of the hire car, I note it did take a few days  for this to be provided. But 
the terms of the policy dont require this to be provided immediately. From  the notes Ive 
seen it appears Mr S wasnt satisfied with the original provider so Churchill  sourced an 
alternative. I dont think its unreasonable that this resulted in it taking slightly longer for the 
car to be provided. So I dont think Churchill has done anything wrong. But in any event I 
think the offer of £50 made  by Churchill is fair in respect of the delays incurred. So I dont  
think it would  be reasonable to ask it to do more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4848100