K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the advice he received from Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited (L&G) in 1989 to transfer  benefits from his occupational pension  scheme (OPS) to a 
personal pension  policy (PPP) with L&G.  Hes concerned about the outcome of L&Gs 
review in 1998 of the transfer and the advice he received.
background
In 1989 Mr H was advised  by L&G to transfer benefits he held in an OPS  to a PPP.
The advice was reviewed  in 1998  as a part of the industry wide Pensions Review and L&G 
found there was no existing cause for concern. Having assessed Mr Hs transfer,  L&Gs 
results didnt show any loss. Specifically L&G said:
Accordingly, I do not propose to review this case further and intend to close the review file. 
If you are dissatisfied with this result, please  write  to me within 28 days detailing your 
concerns. I shall then record these and arrange for your case to be looked at again by senior 
management who will respond  as quickly as possible  () If you have a query about this 
letter or any aspect  of the pension review, please  do not hesitate  to contact me ()
In 2019 Mr H raised concerns with L&G about the advice he originally received in 1989.
L&G considered Mr Hs concerns and in summary  said the following:
in its letter of 28 March 1998  it explained it had reviewed Mr Hs plan.  Its calculations  
showed Mr H hadnt suffered  a loss as a result of transferring  benefits  from his OPS 
to a PPP with it
L&G told Mr H in 1998 there was no cause for concern, that it was closing its file and 
didnt intend to undertake a further review
the Pension Review was designed  as a one-off exercise and L&G completed it in 
accordance with the regulators guidelines   
it wouldnt be taking any further  action or revisiting  the matter  as Mr Hs complaint 
about his PPP being mis-sold was finalised in March 1998 
Unhappy with L&Gs response, Mr H referred his complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said:
the aim of the Pension Review  was to draw a line under mis-selling  and put matters 
right at the time
unfortunately although assumptions made by the regulator had fallen short,  the 
review was a one off exercise and there were no plans  to revisit this
as L&G did all that was required at the time as part of the review, there was no 
requirement for it to review the matter  again
Mr H disagreed with our investigator and said he felt hed definitely  lost out as a result  of 
transferring out of his OPS. 
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN49612102my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Ill explain why, but before I do, I should emphasise  that while Ive 
taken serious note of the comments made  by both parties, I have limited my response to 
what I consider to be the issues  central  to this complaint.
The key consideration here is whether there  are any reasonable grounds on which  I should  
direct L&G to review the 1989 advice Mr H received again. I dont think there are. And Im 
afraid theres  very little I can add without  repeating  much of what Mr H has been told by L&G 
and our investigator.
As has already  been explained, the advice that Mr H was given to transfer was reviewed  in 
1998 as part of the regulators  industry wide Pension Review. This was initiated by the 
regulator because  it feared that investors like Mr H may have been given poor advice which  
didnt meet the required standards  at the time.
I havent seen  any persuasive evidence that L&G didnt complete  the pension  review in line 
with its regulatory  obligations. L&Gs starting  point was that Mr Hs PPP had been mis-sold 
and the pension review loss calculation  was done on this basis.
Based on L&Gs review outcome letter to Mr H at the time Im satisfied L&G was clear about  
the basis of its calculation and that it invited Mr H to query its letter or any aspect of the 
review it had carried out if he wished to do so. I havent seen anything  to suggest Mr H did 
this so I consider  it reasonable that L&G concluded its review on the basis  it did. 
Its important to note that as part of the industry  wide Pension Review and under the express  
guidance of the regulator, L&G was only required to review the advice Mr H received once. 
And this had to be based on assumptions the regulator told it to use at the time. The fact 
these assumptions may not have achieved what was expected (or accounted for every 
specific benefit held under a former  employers  pension  scheme) isnt grounds to redo the 
calculation. This is because the Pension Review was only intended to provide, where  
appropriate, the right amount of redress to consumers to compensate them as much as 
possible for any financial loss they were  identified to have suffered as a result of their 
transfer out of a former employers pension  scheme.  In Mr Hs case, no financial loss was 
identified. 
The aim of the Pensions Review was effectively to draw  a line under  any pension mis-selling 
and put matters right at that time. It was a one-off exercise and from everything Ive seen  
L&G carried  out the review it was required to. Had the regulator instead required  businesses  
like L&G to wait until an individual reached retirement age (which in some  cases could be 
20/30 years  or more), many people  like Mr H would have been  denied any redress at all 
because many businesses wouldve ceased  to exist by the time their retirement date came  
about.
L&G had to carry out internal quality assurance  checks to ensure that the calculations  were 
correct and in line with the appropriate guidance. L&G was also subject to regular  
inspections from the regulator to ensure that the review had been carried out in line with the 
guidance.
Ref: DRN49612103I should say that I do sympathise with Mr H and understand why hes unhappy  with the 
Pensions Review methodology  and therefore feels L&Gs calculation was perhaps 
incomplete. But this was the then regulators decision on how to deal with the mis-selling  
problem. And so its not something this service  can now challenge  or ignore. 
I realise hell be disappointed with my decision  but as Ive already explained, based on 
everything Ive seen I am not persuaded to direct L&G to meet Mr Hs request for it to review 
the advice he received  again. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Chillel Bailey 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4961210