K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that First Central Insurance Management Limited unfairly charged him 
for additional products when he cancelled his car insurance policy.
background
Mr S bought a car insurance policy  through a broker, First Central  in May 2017. In March 
2018 he cancelled  his policy as hed sold his car. 
First Central said Mr S owed a balance on cancellation of £352.99. Mr S had agreed  to 
repay his yearly premium  by way of monthly  instalments under a finance agreement. He was 
unhappy with the sum First Central  quoted. He believed he only needed to pay a 
cancellation charge of £50.
To resolve  Mr Ss complaint, First Central said it would  only charge Mr S a pro rata amount 
for the additional  products. So it reduced  the final sum it said he owed it to £336.81.
Mr S told us that he understood the additional  products had been  added to his policy  for free. 
Our investigator listened to a recording of the key call when Mr S bought  his policy  in May 
2017. She thought First Central had explained  to Mr S the cost of the additional products  
and that if he cancelled his policy after 14 days, he wouldnt receive any refund for the 
additional products.  She thought the reduced amount First Central said Mr S owed it was 
reasonable as it was entitled to keep  the whole premium for the additional products. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said he was under the impression the additional products were free. 
So hed like an ombudsman to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
When Mr S agreed to buy a policy with First Central in May 2017, the agent told him that the 
price he paid for the additional products wouldnt be refunded if he cancelled  his policy after 
14 days. And this is also set out in Mr Ss policy documents which First Central sent to him. 
So I dont  think First Central  led Mr S to believe the additional  products were added to his 
policy for free. 
If a policy  is cancelled within a relatively short period of time  and no claim was made 
against the additional products  we may find that its reasonable for the insurer to instead 
apply a pro rata charge  for the additional products  unless it can show the administration 
costs to cancel the products outweigh the cost of the refund. In this case  Mr Ss policy was in 
place for 10 months.  So I think  he had the benefit  of the additional products even if he didnt 
claim against them. However, First Central agreed to only charge Mr S for the time he was 
on cover  for the additional products. I think this was very reasonable. 
So I think First Central has cancelled Mr Ss policy fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions of his policy. I dont think hes been overcharged. This means I think Mr S 
correctly owes the balance First Central  quoted of £336.81. 
Ref: DRN41712552my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4171255