K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Aviva Insurance Limited mis-sold Mr F payment  protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI which started in April 2004 and was to cover 
a mortgage.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents from the 
time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. I dont think this 
is surprising or unreasonable given that this happened about 15 years ago. Also I wouldnt 
expect someone to recall  in detail everything  that happened so long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  outcome can be difficult.
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case. However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr F says he was not aware the PPI policy  had been set up, and he has no recollection  of 
discussing PPI with the adviser. He believes the PPI was added  as an administrative error.  
On the account  records, it says that an application  form was received on 27 April 2004  
although I can accept  that this might  have been  an administrative error, with the information 
added to the wrong persons account.  But it wouldnt be fair for me to decide that it was an 
actual error,  unless there was some other evidence in support.
Mr F has pointed to a life insurance  Acceptance  terms document. This lays out the life 
insurance and critical illness insurance being offered to him in February 2004. At the bottom 
of the form it says Mortgage payment protection: Not included.  But I dont think  this shows 
that PPI wasnt discussed  and offered. I think its quite likely Aviva  would have  offered  PPI 
as a separate product  not tied in with the life insurance, which  is a very different kind of 
insurance. 
Aviva has said the PPI was a stand-alone policy, not linked to a specific mortgage. And I can 
see that there was a separate account  with just PPI premiums going in. So its likely 
Ref: DRN49624092(assuming the whole  thing wasnt an administrative error)  that the PPI was presented  to Mr F 
as a choice.
Aviva recommended  the PPI to Mr F, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Being unable to pay a mortgage  can lead to 
significant difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr F received  
any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would  have  paid unemployment benefits 
in addition to any redundancy  pay. And it would have put off the time when he would need to 
fall back on any savings  or other means.  This all would  have put Mr F in a more  secure 
position, if he eventually  lost income  due to long term sickness  or unemployment. 
Its hard to know how well Aviva explained  the cost of the policy. But I dont anyway  think full 
and clear information about the costs would have  affected whether Mr F took the PPI.
Its possible Aviva didnt  clearly point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr F would have  been affected  by any of these.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4962409