K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  
background
The policy started  around 1994,  about  the same time as Mr A took out the credit card it was 
linked to. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint. I know this will be disappointing  for him. Ill set 
out the reasons for my decision below. 
Mr A says that he doesnt remember much from 1994 as it was such  a long time ago. Im not 
surprised by this  I wouldnt expect him to remember in detail something  that happened  
nearly 25 years ago. But he does say he never asked for PPI. 
Lloyds doesnt  have much  information  either   this also isnt unusual, and businesses  arent  
required to keep records indefinitely. But I have  seen  a copy  of a credit card statement 
issued in 1994. This appears to be Mr As first statement,  and PPI is present. So I think its 
likely that PPI was taken out when he applied for the card. It has also provided information 
that the card was closed in 1998.
At the time,  Lloyds has shown that its sales processes required its staff to show  that the PPI 
was an optional product  and to gain proper consent for it to be added to the card.  And I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Lloyds did anything other  than follow its usual process  
when I sold the PPI to Mr A.
Its also likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr A so it wouldve had to take extra  steps to 
check that the PPI was right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time,  I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have  had a need for the cover. And while Mr A was 
self-employed, the policy terms  wouldnt have made  it any more difficult for him to make  a 
claim than someone who was employed.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for him if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ive taken into account Mr As comments,  but for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the 
PPI was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN47247272my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019. 
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4724727