K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that One Insurance Limited (OIL) has declined  his claim to be reimbursed
for a repair to his boiler that OIL wouldnt undertake  under his home  emergency  policy.
References to OIL include its agents and contractors.
background
Since 4 January 2018, Mr M has had a home  insurance policy  which includes, as an optional
extra, home emergency executive cover  from OIL. This provides cover for his boiler,  but
doesnt include an annual  service. The policy provides cover of up to £750  (including VAT)
for parts and labour.
According to OILS records,  Mr Ms boiler was around 4 to 5 years old and hadnt  been
serviced since December  2017. It says it attended  to it on three occasions. It says it replaced
two major components in January 2017 (sic), and, following  another  claim, attended again in
November 2018.  Mr Ms complaint follows a further  claim  made in January 2019.
On 29 January 2019 Mr M contacted  OIL to report a fault with his boiler. Two OIL engineers
attended. The first engineer said that the problem was with something else for which  his
policy didnt cover him. The second engineer said that the problem was with the boilers
expansion valve and that this needed to be replaced. He replaced it, but this didnt solve  the
problem. The engineer then left.
Mr M say he waited  for days for OIL to call him. When  he then called OIL, he was told that
his boiler was beyond economic repair (BER) and hed need  to buy a new one. He says his
boiler was less than six years old. He says OIL also told him that hed already used up £500
of the £750 financial claim limit under  his policy.
Mr M spoke  to the engineer who usually undertakes his annual  boiler services who told him
that the cost of the parts OIL had used dont cost £500. This engineer checked the boiler and
identified that the heat exchanger was faulty,  so he replaced it for £375. The boiler  thereafter
continued to work normally. Mr M say this confirms that the expansion valve that OILS
engineer replaced  wasnt the cause of the problem. He wants to be reimbursed the £375  he
had to pay his own engineer.
OILS engineers report states that its engineer visited on 22 January 2019.  He replaced the
expansion vessel and related PRV that had blown.  After  testing  it was found that although
the new parts had solved the pressure  issue  and restored  hot water, the heating was still not
working. The engineer ran through further  diagnostics and found the heat exchanger  was at
fault, potentially  because it had become full of sludge.  The presence of sludge raised some
doubt about Mr Ms claim that hed had a system flush conducted 10 months  before,  or
alternatively that it hadnt been done to standard. He said that further repairs  involving a new
heat exchanger, fittings, sundries and labour  would  cost around £250-300.
The report  went on to say that the cost of repairs to date for this incident  was £450 (not £500
as Mr M had been told), and that the cost of a new boiler of similar  model was £650.
Therefore the further repairs needed would bring  the total cost of repairs  to more than the
cost of new boiler. It said that taking into account the generally poor condition of Mr Ms
system, the repairs werent considered  to be economically viable. So the boiler was declared
to be beyond economic repair (BER).
Ref: DRN44149882OIL declined Mr Ms claim. It said that Mr Ms boiler hadnt been serviced since  December  
2017, and referred  to an exclusion in his policy which states  that it doesnt cover:
any claim where the main source of heating is:
 not annually serviced or is not subject to a maintenance contract."
Mr M has since provided evidence that his boiler was serviced on 20 June 2018. Hes
provided a copy of a Service  Maintenance Checklist completed by a qualified gas engineer.
This lists the checks undertaken, and states in the Observation box All ok cleaned  filter
checked system".
OIL has said that this document is merely a checklist, and not evidence of a boiler  service.
Its engineers also commented  that the checks undertaken werent comprehensive and only
covered the boilers basic functioning and didnt include  a wider inspection  of the whole
heating system. They  also commented on the presence of sludge. They said that Mr M
hadnt provided evidence of having  followed a recommendation made to him in
January 2018  that he deal with the sludge that was present in his system. But OIL hasnt
given this as a reason for declining  Mr Ms claim.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with OILS  response to his request for reimbursement of the cost of the
further repairs required to get his boiler  working properly again. He first asked  for
reimbursement on 27 February 2019. He made a further request on 7 May 2019.  Having
received no response  from OIL by 7 July 2019,  he brought his complaint to this service.
Mr M complains that OIL left him and his family  in the cold with no heating from
November 2019  and he wants compensation for this from OIL.
Our investigators view was that Mr M had provided enough evidence of having had his
boiler serviced annually,  which was the ground  upon which OIL had declined his claim. She
considered that OIL should reimburse  to Mr M the £375 hed had to pay his own engineer to
undertake the work that OIL declined to do.
OIL doesnt agree with our investigators  view and has asked that the matter be referred to
an ombudsman. The matter has therefore  been passed to me for a decision.
I initially issued a provisional decision in this case and asked OIL and Mr M to provide any 
further comments they wished to make by 11 July. Ive received no further comments from 
either OIL or Mr M.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im upholding Mr Ms complaint
but making a different award  to that suggested  by our investigator,  and Ill explain  why.
Although OIL hasnt  provided a final response letter to Mr M, its clear from what  its said
elsewhere that it rejected Mr Ms claim on the ground that Mr M hadnt had his boiler
serviced, which was a requirement of his policy. Mr M has provided  the Service Maintenance
Checklist showing a service having  been undertaken on 20 June 2018. Hes also provided a
similar document dated 18 May 2017.  This states,  in the Observations  box, All ok fully
serviced boiler and checked system  (balanced radiators).
So Im satisfied that Mr Ms boiler had been  serviced in 2017  and 2018. The checklists
provide a detailed description of what the engineers  checked and did. They are in similar
Ref: DRN44149883form to checklists provided by other engineers  at annual  services. Im not persuaded that
this is insufficient  to satisfy the terms of Mr Ms policy,  which doesnt stipulate what  a service
needs to include  or the form in which such service is recorded.
OILS engineers have also alluded to the fact that there was sludge  present in Mr Ms 
system and that he may not have followed the recommendation that they say was made to 
him in January 2018 that he have his system flushed. Mr M has provided evidence in the 
form of an invoice from engineers dated  20 January 2018 to prove that he did in fact have a 
full power flush of his central heating system. I mention this only for completeness as OIL 
didnt reject Mr Ms claim on this ground. Nor did it reject it on the ground that the boiler was 
BER.
So as Im satisfied that OIL has unreasonably  rejected  Mr Ms claim for reimbursement, Im
going to require OIL to make such reimbursement to Mr M. If OILS  engineers had
undertaken the necessary  work for £300  (theyd stated the cost to be £250 - £300), this cost
together with the cost of the replacement of the expansion vessel and PRV (£450) would
equal the £750 claim limit under the policy. But as Mr M had to engage his own engineer
instead, I think it reasonable  that he be reimbursed the full amount  he had to pay.
Mr M has also complained that he and his family  were left without heating  by OIL since
November 2018.  OIL initially told our investigator that it had attended to Mr Ms boiler in
January and November 2018. It also stated:
The previous claims In January and November  the work required to the boiler  was
carried out and the rectification needed was complete.
The [contractors] have  also made note that the consumer states he had a boiler service
In December yet the boiler was not working In December even after the [contractors]
recent visit in late November early December.
The above  statement therefore appears  to confirm that the boiler  wasnt  working in
December 2018,  prior to Mr Ms claim in January 2019.
I sought further information  about  this from Mr M and OIL. OILS  response was that it had
refused to attend  to Mr Ms boiler in November 2018 as it wasnt  a "complete failure  of the
main source of heating " as the policy terms required. It says that the boiler was still firing up
and providing  hot water  and that Mr M had reported  that the radiators were "not reaching full
temperature"  though were still warm and providing  heat. It recommended he bleed  the
radiators.
So there appears to be a conflict in OILS account  as to whether it attended in
November 2018  to deal with the claim that Mr M made at that time.  And Mr M has
consistently said he and his family  were  in the cold since November.
As OIL has said in response to my specific question that it refused to attend in November,
and that the boiler wasnt working  in December, Im persuaded  that Mr Ms account is the
more probable one.
As Ive received  no further information from OIL about this aspect of Mr Ms claim, I consider 
it would  be reasonable for Mr M to receive compensation of £250  from OIL for its refusal to 
attend in November 2018 to identify why his heating  system wasnt working, leaving him and 
his family  without central heating for at least two months.
Ref: DRN44149884I also consider that Mr M has suffered considerable inconvenience in having to resort to this
service to get a response to his request for reimbursement of the amount he had to pay his
own engineer.  He first made this request on 27 February 2019 and when, despite chasing,
he hadnt received  any response  by 7 July, he contacted this service.  I consider that
compensation of £200 would be reasonable in these circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above.  Im upholding Mr Ms complaint and I require
One Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. to pay Mr M £375 in reimbursement  of what he had to pay his own engineer to repair
his boiler together with interest  on this sum payable at the simple  rate of 8% a year
from the date Mr M made his claim to the date payment is made to him.
2. to pay Mr M compensation  of £450.
If One Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest  payable,  it should tell Mr M how much  its taken  off. It should 
also give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2020.  
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4414988