K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mr T complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) for declining 
their contents and buildings insurance claim after a theft. They  want Lloyds to provide clear 
reasoning for the rejection of the claim and to reconsider the claim. 
background
Mr and Mr T have held their buildings and contents  policy since  around 2009. 
In January 2018, Mr T went on holiday for a week,  leaving his property unoccupied. 
Whilst he was away, his father attended the property and noticed an upstairs  window was 
open. He accessed the property through the window and discovered that the property had 
been burgled. 
He contacted Mr T and then informed the police.  Police did not attend and undertake  a crime 
scene investigation,  but were due to visit the property  when Mr T returned from his holiday. 
When Mr T returned  he discovered that a number of high value items had been taken from 
his home,  along  with cash, and that a radiator had been pulled  from the wall. 
Mr T submitted a claim to Lloyds, under his buildings and contents insurance policy.  
A loss adjuster  for Lloyds  attended the property and prepared a report. He took photographs 
of the property and the window through which access had been gained.  He considered that 
there was no evidence of the window having  been  forced open,  and he concluded from this 
that the window could  not have been properly secured before it was accessed. 
Lloyds considered Mr Ts claim and ultimately  rejected it, setting  out that there was no 
evidence of forced or violent entry. 
Mr T argued  that his policy did not require evidence of forced entry  and that this was not a 
policy condition. He complained to Lloyds  and asked that they reconsider his claim. 
Lloyds sent him its final response in May 2018.  This set out that Mr Ts policy  required that 
certain security conditions be met to ensure cover. These included that all windows be 
lockable, and when the property is unoccupied  those windows will all be locked, with keys 
removed. 
Lloyds acknowledged  that the information Mr T had been given  about  the reason  for 
rejecting his claim until that point had not been  clear so offered him £25 compensation for 
his distress and inconvenience. 
Mr and Mr T were not happy  with that response  and contacted us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and has set out her view to the parties.  
She didnt  uphold the complaint and considered  that Lloyds had acted fairly and reasonably,  
based on the evidence available. 
Ref: DRN48453132Mr and Mr T did not accept that view and asked  for an ombudsman  decision. They argue 
that the fact that there was insufficient evidence of forced entry does not mean  that the 
window was left unlocked. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I understand Mr and Mr Ts upset at the decision  from Lloyds.  It is always  upsetting to 
experience a theft, especially from ones home,  and it must be even more upsetting to learn 
that the insurance policy will not cover  those losses, which included personal  and expensive 
items. 
I do, however,  have  to consider whether Lloyds has acted  fairly and reasonably  in its 
actions. Insurance  companies are entitled to set conditions on cover,  and when these are 
not met it may be reasonable for the business to reject a claim. 
In this case, Lloyds  had included a specific term in Mr Ts renewal documentation,  setting  
out conditions  for cover  against theft.  This followed a previous claim at the property and 
required that within 45 days  of the start of the policy, the policyholder must ensure that 
certain security measures were taken.  
These included  ensuring that all windows and skylights  to which  access may be gained  
must be fitted with key operated window  locks. When the building  is left unattended,  all 
security devices must be put into operation  and the keys removed from the locks.
Mr T recalls ensuring that all windows were  locked before he left for his holiday, and he says 
that he always undertakes  a thorough  double  check  of the property. He is certain  that all 
windows were locked  when he left the property.  
Lloyds evidence, from the inspection and photographs, sets out why it does not consider 
that there  was forced entry to the window which Mr Ts father observed open. The inspection 
noted some  minor scratches and damage  around the window,  but concluded that the way 
the window opened meant that any attempt to force the window fittings outwards, to open 
the window from closed and locked, would  have required considerable force and would  have 
left significantly greater  damage around the window than was present. 
Mr T argues that there have been cases where  entry to a locked  window has not left 
substantial physical damage, and that there is evidence of replacement screws which he 
feels supports the case that the window  was accessed despite being locked. 
I am not able to determine which happened, and this is not the role of this service.  Our role 
is to determine  whether  Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its conclusion. 
Based on the evidence  available, I cannot  say that Lloyds has reached an unreasonable  
conclusion. I appreciate that some cases may be exceptions, but Lloyds has based its 
decision on the claims assessors expertise and experience of how break-ins through locked 
windows would usually  appear. 
Lloyds concluded  that there was insufficient physical  damage for it to be satisfied that the 
window had been closed and locked with the key removed, as the policy required. 
Ref: DRN48453133On the basis that the Lloyds evidence indicated that the policy conditions had not been 
complied with, I think it reasonable  for Lloyds to reject the claim, even though I understand 
how disappointing and frustrating this will be for Mr T. 
I note that Lloyds did give confusing information to Mr T initially  about why his claim was 
being rejected.  I think that Lloyds offer of £25 to compensate this issue is reasonable and in 
line with other awards we would make in similar  circumstances. 
For these reasons I agree with the view of the investigator and do not ask Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited to do anything further.  I appreciate that this will be disappointing  
for Mr and Mr T, but I hope it clearly explains my reasons  for reaching it. 
my final decision
As set out above, I do not uphold this complaint and do not ask Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4845313