K820x#14complaint
Miss M has complained about HSBC Bank Plcs  customer service following some  disputed 
payments on her credit card account.
what happened
Miss M booked a holiday with a merchant on her HSBC credit  card.  The merchant failed to 
provide her with what shed paid for. In February  and March  2018, the merchant  also 
charged nearly £9,000 of additional  payments  to Miss Ms card.
Miss M tried to sort things out with the merchant in the first instance, but the merchant failed 
to rectify the problem.  She reported the matter  to HSBC.
HSBC have refunded  the disputed payments along  with any related interest and charges, 
and paid Miss M £20 for her call charges.
However, Miss M has complained about  the way HSBC handled the situation. For instance, 
she said they took a long time to respond  to emails,  passed  her between departments, gave 
her conflicting information, and caused her embarrassment when they failed to make it clear 
that her card was blocked and she had a payment  declined.
HSBC apologised  for their shortcomings and offered Miss M £200 in additional 
compensation.
Miss M felt this didnt  reflect the distress shed been caused. She also says HSBC should  
not have let her credit  card go over its agreed limit, or should have notified her when it did go 
over, or should have realised the payments were fraudulent earlier. She said that if HSBC 
had done so, she wouldve been  able to book alternative flights  earlier at a cheaper  price.
Our investigator felt HSBC had already resolved the complaint fairly. He explained  that it 
was HSBCs discretion whether to allow payments over the credit limit, and they didnt know 
at the time that the payments were  not genuine.  He did agree that HSBC  shouldve 
otherwise handled Miss Ms situation better,  but he explained that the bank had already paid 
compensation in line with what he would  have recommended. So he didnt think  HSBC  
needed to do anything more.
Miss M disagreed with the investigators  opinion, particularly as she felt that HSBC had 
breached the terms and conditions of the credit card. So the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Firstly, Ill clarify here that HSBC have already refunded the disputed payments, alongside 
any related interest  and charges. So theyve  already  resolved Miss Ms financial  loss there. 
That does not appear to be in dispute.
Ref: DRN45141762Miss M has a number of questions in respect of what happened here and I can understand  
her concern.  But the focus of my role, and of this decision, is resolving the complaint. I think 
the key question, and the crux of the issue, is: is what HSBC has subsequently done to try to 
resolve the complaint fair and reasonable in the circumstances?
I think all parties  have  accepted that HSBC got things  wrong,  such as passing Miss M 
between departments, not making  it clear whether her card was blocked or not, incorrectly  
telling her not to cancel  her card, and so on. Its already a highly  distressing  event  if 
payments go through without ones permission,  and it certainly  doesnt  help to have the bank 
add further trouble and upset on top of that.
In order to put things  right, we often  tell businesses to pay compensation, to recognise the 
impact that mistakes have  had. When it comes to the amount of compensation,  its worth  
bearing in mind that its the actions of the party who made the unauthorised payments that 
will have been responsible for a large amount of Miss Ms distress and trouble. And it was 
not HSBC, but another party, who was responsible  for Miss Ms booking.  It follows  that 
I dont think it would  be reasonable to hold HSBC responsible for any claim Miss M has for 
her rebooking costs  here. Lastly,  its worth bearing  in mind that were here to resolve 
complaints, and not to punish  or fine businesses.
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation  to award,  and we need to be 
consistent. I do appreciate that this situation  has caused Miss M a lot of trouble and upset, 
and I appreciate why she would  like more compensation from HSBC in particular.  But while  
the bank did make errors, I think theyve rectified those  errors, and HSBC have already paid 
Miss M an amount in line with what I would have awarded. So I dont  think  it would be fair for 
me to tell HSBC to do any more here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont make  any further award in this case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4514176