K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1999 
alongside a credit card. Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Although I have only included some  of the complaint points made by each party,  I have read 
and considered all the evidence and arguments available  to me from the outset, in order  to 
decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of the credit card application  form Mr M saw and signed.  In this there is a 
section for PPI where theres a pre-printed  cross in the box to agree to the cover,  and I think  
it is likely  the application was printed in this way as a result of the discussion which took 
place where Mr M agreed to the policy. And there  is nothing in this section to suggest the 
PPI had to be taken out. Mr M signed  this document  so I think this reflected  what he wanted 
at the time. So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think BoS made it clear that Mr M didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
cant remember this.
BoS advised Mr M to take out the PPI so it had to check  that the policy  was right for him - 
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.
Mr M says the PPI wasnt suitable  for him because he was entitled  to sick pay from his 
employer. The PPI wouldve covered 10% of Mr Ms outstanding monthly  balance  for up to 
12 months  which  wouldve been  in addition  to his sick pay and for longer than his full sick 
pay entitlement wouldve lasted. And so he couldve used these funds for other expenses. 
Mr M also told us he didnt have any other  savings  or insurance  to help him make his 
repayments in the event  he was suddenly unable to work. So overall I think  the PPI wouldve 
been useful and I dont think his sick pay entitlement meant  the policy wasnt  suitable  for 
him.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr M about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. And Mr M feels strongly  that nothing  about the PPI was explained to him at the time. 
But the evidence  suggests he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for him if something went wrong.  It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. But BoS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
Ref: DRN42867992BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr M about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair.
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M. But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4286799