K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained to Wesleyan Financial  Services Ltd (Wesleyan)  about the sale of a Free
Standing Additional Voluntary Contributions (FSAVC) plan in 1992.  Wesleyan  upheld  the
complaint and has offered redress. But Mr Ms representative says the redress isnt correct.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 18 November 2020. Ive attached it and it forms part of this 
decision. I explained why, from what Id seen,  the loss assessment had been  carried out 
correctly and so I wasnt  upholding the complaint. 
Mr Ms representative responded. He maintained the loss assessment wasnt correct and, in 
particular, that a notional value for FSAVC shouldnt be used. His main points were:
Documentary evidence was usually key in determining a complaint. Unfortunately  the 
events and advice  that Mr M clearly  recalls werent fully documented. But his 
recollections were truthful and the most likely version of events. 
What hed said about the personal pension being sold in 2002 to replace the FSAVC 
was logical. His private earnings allowed  pension  funding via a personal pension, 
which was often  seen  as a better, more  flexible option than a FSAVC. It was natural 
for an adviser to steer a client  with private  earnings towards a personal pension and 
away from the FSAVC. If the personal  pension wasnt  a replacement theres no 
reason why Mr M wouldve stopped contributing to the FSAVC.  The two income  
sources were separate and he could have  paid into both. But, when overall budget is 
factored in, its generally necessary to make a choice. And natural to direct the 
available budget to the new personal pension. Thats logical and what Mr M recalls, 
even though it wasnt explicitly documented. 
It seems  Mr M didnt  take formal advice about the 2007 transfer. But, as a result of 
being steered  towards the SIPP provider,  he lost the GARs. Wesleyan should have 
pointed that out as part of the transfer  process.  Its unfair that Wesleyan failed to do 
that but can benefit by assuming, in the loss assessment, that Mr M still has the 
GARs. 
If the correct sales process  had been  followed when the FSAVC  was sold Mr M 
wouldve had an added years  contract. Theres no reason why hed have stopped it, 
either in 2002  or 2007. 
A loss assessment  it normally based  on the contribution history  of the mis sold 
product. If the period  of liability  for the loss assessment ends in 2003  when 
contributions to the FSAVC stopped, is it right that Wesleyan can use a notional 
value for a policy that no longer  exists  and bears  no relation to the benefit Mr M 
gained? And Wesleyan should  have realised in 2002 that the FSAVC had been mis 
sold and so shouldnt  benefit from missing that opportunity to put right the unsuitable 
FSAVC sale. 
Wesleyans redress proposal  didnt put Mr M in the position hed be in if the 
unsuitable advice  hadnt been given. It compares one hypothetical value (the value of 
a lost added  years  benefit) to another hypothetical value (if Mr M had remained with 
Wesleyan). The first hypothetical value  was necessary but the second wasnt. Id said 
Ref: DRN44896332the transfer out in 2007 should be disregarded  as Wesleyan hadnt advised Mr M to 
do it. But the FSAVC  should never have been  sold. 
Mr Ms loss can only be assessed  by looking at the actual position hes in now. He 
transferred to the SIPP in 2007  and drew down on his transferred FSAVC.  The 
amounts he realised should  form the second  part of the loss assessment. Using  a 
notional value wasnt standard  practice or fair and doesnt  undo the financial impact 
of the FSAVC sale. Other firms dont assess loss in that way. Nor does  the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). And Wesleyan itself doesnt always use 
notional values. It didnt seem that Wesleyan had tried to obtain details of the actual 
benefits Mr M took from the SIPP and resorted to using notional values. But they can 
be obtained and should be used. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive paid particular attention  to Mr Ms representatives comments. But I dont 
think whats been said is really new or anything that Ive not considered before.  
I take the point  about Mr Ms recollections  being  reliable. But I still dont think  the evidence  
shows that the personal pension was intended to replace the FSAVC. I dont know why Mr M 
stopped contributing to the FSAVC  in 2003,  a year after the personal  pension had been sold. 
But I cant say it was because the personal pension had been  sold to replace the FSAVC.  
The 31 January 2002 recommendation letter is on the basis  that Mr M wanted to make  
pension provision from his private,  non NHS  earnings. I dont think  that was unsuitable. 
I can also see the argument that, if Mr M had been sold an added years  contract  at the 
outset, hed have  continued with it throughout. But I dont think  its fair to ignore what  actually 
happened later and the fact that, for whatever reason, Mr M stopped contributing  to the 
FSAVC in 2003. 
Using that as the end date for the period of the loss assessment is in line with the regulators 
guidance. It includes provision for that period to be extended. For example, if theres 
evidence that the investor  stopped contributing  because of dissatisfaction with the FSAVC 
policy in some way. But I dont see thats  the case here. And I was unable  to say that 
Wesleyan advised  Mr M to stop his contributions to the FSAVC. 
The main  area of contention  is Wesleyans use of a notional value for what  Mr Ms benefits  
would have been worth  had he stayed  with Wesleyan. I dont think what  other firms  or 
organisations might do is directly relevant. And even if Wesleyan itself has taken  a different 
approach in other cases that wont necessarily mean that what  it has done in Mr Ms case  is 
wrong. 
It isnt the case that Wesleyan thought  it might  be too difficult to obtain  the actual values for 
the SIPP and the funds  drawn down. Wesleyans position is that it didnt give advice in 
relation to the transfer out. So the value of the SIPP and the funds drawn from it have been 
disregarded in favour of the notional value of the FSAVC assuming it had remained in force.
I dont think thats  wrong on the basis that I cant say Wesleyan advised in connection with 
the transfer to the SIPP. The position isnt entirely satisfactory given that it seems  Wesleyan 
Ref: DRN44896333may have  pointed Mr M in the SIPP providers direction. But I dont think  thats enough to 
say that it was Wesleyans fault that the GARs  were lost. It was open to Mr M to take formal 
advice in connection with the transfer and it seems  he decided not to.  
Ive considered the assessment undertaken on behalf of Wesleyan. Im satisfied  it has been 
carried out in accordance  with the regulators guidance. 
my final decision
Im not upholding the complaint and Im not making  any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44896334PROVISIONAL DECISION dated  18 November 2020
complaint
Mr M complained to Wesleyan Financial Services Ltd (Wesleyan) about the sale of a Free Standing 
Additional Voluntary Contributions (FSAVC) plan in 1992.  Wesleyan upheld the complaint and has 
offered redress. But Mr Ms representative says the redress isnt correct.   
background
Mr M is and has, at all material times been a member of the NHS  Pension Scheme. He was advised  
in 1992 by Wesleyan  to take out a FSAVC. Mr Ms payments were £200 pm gross. The FSAVC  had a 
guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) of just over 8%.  
Wesleyan gave  further  advice in 2002. Ive seen Wesleyans letter dated 31 January 2002 confirming 
its recommendations. It said Mr M wanted to increase his savings for retirement and that the various 
routes open to him (including increasing  his contributions to the NHS Pension Scheme,  personal 
pension plan (PPP), AVCs  (Additional Voluntary Contributions) and savings vehicles)  had been 
discussed.
A PPP had been recommended. Mr M was eligible to contribute to a PPP as he had non NHS 
earnings. The letter said that for normal  salary  progression the comparison of projected values  for a 
[PPP] and the added years  scheme showed that Mr M would be better off by effecting  a PPP. 
In March 2003  Mr M stopped paying  contributions to the FSAVC. He continued  to contribute to the 
PPP.  
In April 2007  Mr M approached Wesleyan  about taking some benefits (tax free cash) from the (paid 
up) FSAVC and the PPP. Wesleyan said that wasnt possible with his existing plans and suggested 
he contact  Pointon York.  Mr M did and the FSAVC and the PPP were transferred to a self invested 
personal pension (SIPP) with Pointon York. 
 
Ref: DRN44896335Mr M complained, via his representative, to Wesleyan  in June 2016 about the sale of the FSAVC. 
In September 2018 Wesleyan wrote to Mr Ms representative  saying it had carried  out a loss 
calculation. It showed Mr M hadnt suffered  any financial loss if, instead of contributing to the FSAVC, 
hed bought added years  between August 1993 and March 2003 (when  his contributions to the 
FSAVC had stopped). 
Wesleyan set out how it had calculated that. In summary:
The FSAVC  was transferred to the SIPP  on 19 April 2007. The transfer value was £51,966.49 
and Mr M had since drawn from funds  in the SIPP.  Wesleyan hadnt given  any advice about  
that. So it had used the notional  value of the FSAVC, assuming it had remained in force,  
calculated, as at 1 July 2018, as £161,157.37.
Added years  arrangements could only commence at a members birthday. The first 
opportunity to contract for added  years after the start of the FSAVC was in August  1993,  
when Mr M became  38. He could have purchased one year of additional  pensionable service  
at a cost of 0.98% of pensionable  pay, payable for a term of 22 years to normal retirement  
age (60). 
The total contributions paid to the FSAVC represented 5.018% of pensionable pay. That 
could have bought added years of 5 years 44 days up to age 60. The final FSAVC 
contribution was paid in March 2003. If Mr M had stopped  paying an added  years contract 
then the added years  purchased  would  have been 2 years 91 days.
Based  on projected  final earnings of £116,343, the pension at age 64 representing 2 years 
and 91 days of pensionable service was £3,272.62  pa with a lump sum of £9,817.87.
The FSAVC  benefitted from a GAR. At age 64 there was a guarantee of £8.002 per £100 of 
the fund value,  payable monthly  in advance, guaranteed 5 years  and with no increases.  To 
buy an equivalent annuity, and on the assumption that 25% of the fund was taken  as tax free 
cash, would require £244,655.71.  That higher figure had been used. 
As at 1 July 2018 the calculation showed the (notional) value  of the FSAVC was higher  than 
the value of the added years option by some £108,111.73. So no compensation is due as Mr 
M had incurred no financial  loss. 
Mr Ms representative raised a number  of issues about the calculation.  He didnt think  the end date 
should be March 2003, on the basis the PPP had been sold to replace the FSAVC. He also queried  
the very high notional value  of the FSAVC: £161,157.37 as at 1 July 2018 as against a transfer value 
of £51,966 49 in April 2007.
There was further correspondence. Wesleyan  maintained the loss calculation had been carried out 
correctly. Mr Ms representative referred the complaint  to us. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint.  She issued her view on 17 October 2019. She 
didnt uphold  the complaint. She said the loss calculation  was correct. Mr Ms representative  didnt 
agree and said, in summary: 
Wesleyan had advised  Mr M in 2002  see Wesleyans letter  dated  31 January  2002. 
As far as Mr M recalls  he didnt take advice in 2007. He asked about  taking  tax free cash. He 
was told his Wesleyan  plans didnt  offer that functionality. He was given details of the Pointon 
York SIPP and recommended  that he transfer to that if he wished  to use draw down. 
If (and as Wesleyan  agrees) Mr M had been given  suitable advice  in 1992, hed have bought 
added years. Its logical to assume that added years contract would have continued through  
to Mr Ms normal retirement date. There  would have been no advice in 2002 to replace the 
FSAVC with a PPP. The PPP may have been sold to pension Mr Ms private earnings  but it 
wouldnt have impacted on the added years contract. Nor would transferring  the PPP to a 
SIPP in 2007. So the loss calculation  shouldnt end then either.   
We should look at Mr Ms current financial position compared to if hed had an added  years 
contract in place until retirement.  The loss assessment shouldnt  use a notional value for the 
FSAVC that Wesleyan advised Mr M to stop contributing to in 2002. That notional value is 
Ref: DRN44896336high due to the distribution of the inherited estate of the with-profits fund. But Mr M hasnt 
actually benefited  from that. 
Similarly he wont have a pension  based on GARs. The FSAVC was stopped in 2002 and he 
was sold a replacement pension that didnt have GARs.  When  Wesleyan told him to transfer 
to Pointon York in 2007 it wasnt explained to him that doing so would mean  he lost the GARs 
on his paid up FSAVC  fund. 
There was a further  exchange between the investigator and Mr Ms representative. We also asked for 
some more information  from Wesleyan, including  about which business  had advised Mr M to transfer 
to a SIPP  in 2007. We also asked why Mr M had been given a comparison  between  a PPP and added 
years in 2002  when the PPP had been sold in respect of his non NHS  earnings. 
Wesleyan provided some correspondence  between it and Pointon York in 2007 and documentation, 
such as the transfer application form which  Mr M signed on 14 April 2007.  Wesleyan couldnt say why 
Mr M was given comparative illustrations in 2002 but assumed it was part of a wider review of his 
retirement planning.
We also asked Wesleyan about  the notional  value of £161,157.37 for the FSAVC.  It gave us the 
following breakdown: 
Sum assured  £47,309.10
Declared bonus £23,533.69
Interim bonus £442.77
Terminal bonus £89,871.81
Value on 1 July 2018 £161,157.37
Wesleyan couldnt  find a calculation showing  how the final value  paid when the policy was transferred 
in 2007 had been calculated. But there was an illustration  with a transfer value date of 12 March  2007 
(a month  prior to transfer) which had a breakdown  as follows: 
Sum assured £31,686 01
Declared bonus £10,012.51
Interim bonus £52.12
Terminal bonus £7,800.09
Value on 12 March  2007  £49,550 73
Mr Ms representative also commented on the high notional value. He repeated that it was due to the 
distribution of the orphan assets in the with-profits fund. But Mr M wouldnt  benefit as hed 
transferred away from Wesleyan in 2007. Using a notional,  highly inflated, value  wouldnt put him 
back in the position  hed have been in but for the unsuitable advice in 1992. All Wesleyan was doing  
was comparing one hypothetical value (the missed value of buying added years) with another (the 
current transfer value of a policy which  was transferred away from Wesleyan 13 years ago). Mr Ms 
actual situation should be compared with the position hed be in if hed taken an added years contract  
in 1992 - which everyone agrees is what  he should and would  have done.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr M was advised by Wesleyan in 1992 to take out a FSAVC policy. Wesleyan  accepts  its advice was 
unsuitable and Mr M should have been  advised to buy added  years in the NHS  Pension Scheme 
instead. Wesleyan  has undertaken a loss calculation  which shows that Mr M hasnt suffered a 
financial loss in consequence of Wesleyans  unsuitable advice. 
Ref: DRN44896337Mr Ms representative doesnt agree that the loss calculation has been carried  out on the correct  
basis. He accepts that the calculation will be technically correct but its the basis and, in particular, 
using an end date of 2003, that he says is wrong. 
From what Ive seen I think the calculation has been  carried out on the correct  basis. For the reasons 
Ive set out below, Im unable  to agree  with Mr Ms representative about  why the loss calculation 
shouldnt end in 2003 or, for that matter, in 2007.  
Its clear that Mr M received  further  advice  from Wesleyan  in 2002. A copy of Wesleyans  letter  dated  
31 January 2002 has been provided.  From the letter it seems Mr Ms overall pension  provision  was 
considered, rather than just how he might make additional  pension provision in respect of his non 
NHS earnings. It seems that added years  were considered  a comparison of added  years and a PPP 
was provided. 
I think  that Wesleyan,  if it was considering Mr Ms overall pension provision, should have revisited the 
FSAVC sold ten years earlier and realised that an added years contract  might be more suitable for Mr 
M in any event and regardless of any further pension  provision he might want  to make. So I think 
there was a missed opportunity for Wesleyan to put right the unsuitable FSAVC sale.   But, given its 
agreed that the FSAVC  was unsuitable at the outset  anyway,  nothing really turns on that.  
I dont think the 2002 advice to set up a PPP was unsuitable.  The PPP catered for Mr Ms non NHS 
earnings. It was tax efficient  and offered much greater flexibility. Mr M could increase or decrease his 
contributions (subject  to a minimum of £60 pm) and make single contributions too.  A  lump sum was 
also available. Mr Ms representative doesnt really argue that the PPP was unsuitable in so far as Mr 
Ms non NHS earnings were concerned. But he says the PPP was sold to replace the FSAVC.  
Theres nothing in the 31 January 2002 letter to indicate that was the case. Or that Mr M should or 
was intending to cease  his contributions to the FSAVC.  Mr M had two income streams   his NHS 
earnings and his private income. I dont  immediately see why he wouldnt  have wanted to make extra 
pension provision  in respect of his second income source.  
I appreciate that Mr M says his understanding was that the PPP was to replace  the FSAVC. I think  
thats what  he is saying he was told by Wesleyan. He says he didnt get any advice in 2003 when he 
stopped contributing to the FSAVC and hes explained  that the timing isnt quite right because  the 
bank didnt cancel his direct debit promptly. 
But, while that could  have happened, it was a long time ago and its possible that Mr Ms recollections  
could be wrong. I think the payments to the FSAVC  and the PPP were different and Mr M also made 
a lump sum payment to the PPP. So that would  tend to suggest that the PPP wasnt a direct at least 
replacement for the FSAVC. And I dont think its unreasonable to place weight  on the 
contemporaneous written documents and which dont indicate that the PPP was sold to replace the 
FSAVC. I dont think it would be fair to Wesleyan to simply accept  what Mr M says and when theres 
little evidence in support. The recommendation letter is somewhat ambiguous  in that it doesnt just 
deal with Mr Ms non NHS earnings. But theres no suggestion that the PPP was intended to replace 
the PPP.  I dont mean any discourtesy to Mr M but I have be fair to both parties  and sometimes it 
wont be right to proceed just on the basis of what one party  recalls, especially if it was some years 
ago.
So I dont think I can approach the complaint  on the basis that Mr M was told the PPP was to replace  
the FSAVC and that he should cancel  his payments to the FSAVC.  
Ive also considered what happened  in 2007. Wesleyan  says it didnt give any advice. And Mr M 
himself seems to agree  that no advice was given.  But, on the other hand, Mr Ms representative says 
Wesleyan recommended (ie advised) that Mr M transfer to a SIPP with Pointon York in order to draw 
down some of his fund. But theres no suitability  letter  or anything  else to indicate  that formal advice 
was given  by Wesleyan.
Ref: DRN44896338It seems that at the time Wesleyan didnt  offer a drawdown product. It looks like Weselyan had some 
arrangement with Pointon York  I note that the transfer form Mr M completed for the SIPP had both 
Wesleyans and Pointon Yorks  names  at the top. 
It appears that Wesleyan suggested that Mr M contact Pointon  York. Its possible that, whatever  
Wesleyan may have  said to Mr M about Pointon Yorks  SIPP, may have amounted to advice or a 
recommendation. But I cant  be sure exactly what may have been  said. I dont think it would be fair to 
assume that advice was given  by Wesleyan when I havent seen  anything to suggest that Wesleyan 
did any more than tell Mr M that Pointon York might offer a product that he might be interested in and 
which Mr M later, after contacting Pointon York,  decided to take out. 
And theres nothing to show that Pointon York gave advice. Its notepaper says its unable to give 
advice. Again its possible that, in Mr Ms dealings with Pointon  York, it may have said something 
could be construed as advice. But, even if that was the case, Im looking here at what Wesleyan  did. 
As Ive said,  I cant proceed  on the basis that Wesleyan advised Mr M in 2007 in connection with 
transferring to a SIPP with Pointon  York,  especially when  he himself  seems to accept that no advice 
was given.  
In consequence of the transfer to the SIPP  Mr M lost the benefit of the GARs on the paid up FSAVC. 
If hed have taken advice he may well have been advised against transferring  for that very reason  
that the GARs were  valuable, particularly in the light of the increasing cost of purchasing an annuity 
since the early 1990s. Its unfortunate that Mr M has lost the GARs. But if he didnt transfer on 
Wesleyans advice  and from what Ive seen he didnt  then I dont  think  I can say that its 
Wesleyans fault that the GARs were lost. 
Mr Ms representatives  arguments are on the basis that the situation is looked at overall and as a 
whole. There is consensus that Mr M should have been sold an added  years contract in 1992.  And I 
can of course  see the argument that, if Mr M had been sold an added years contract at the outset, he 
may well have continued with that throughout. But I dont think it would be right not to take into 
account what  later happened and the extent  to which, if at all, Wesleyan was responsible. I dont think 
its fair to simply proceed on the basis that Mr Ms contract  would have continued  to retirement. 
The fact of the matter  is that Mr M stopped making  contributions to the FSAVC.  And, for the reasons  
Ive explained, I cant say that was because Wesleyan sold him the PPP as a replacement for the 
FSAVC and/or told him to stop his contributions to the FSAVC. 
In the circumstances,  I dont think its unreasonable  to assume  that Mr M would have stopped  making 
his contributions to the added years  contract  too. Further, and in any event, when  contributions  for 
whatever reason  have  stopped I dont think it would be fair to award redress on the basis that the 
contributions continued and so give Mr M the benefit of money  that hes retained and had available to 
spend on something else.  
All in all I dont think Wesleyans  approach  to calculating  redress and ending the loss calculation in 
2003 is wrong. I think the loss calculation  is correct. It takes into account  that Mr Ms policy was paid 
up and the effect that had on any sum assured as well as regular and final or terminal bonuses. If Mr 
M had retained his FSAVC it seems hed have  benefited  from a large  terminal bonus.  So I think  its 
right to take that into account. That means the notional  value of the FSAVC is high and the result is 
that Mr M hasnt lost out by taking out the FSAVC policy, which also benefited from GARs, instead of 
buying added years. 
It is of course the case  that in real terms Mr M has lost out  he transferred away from Wesleyan  and 
so he wont benefit from the very large  terminal  bonus that the policy  would, it seems, have attracted. 
Nor will he benefit from the GARs the FSAVC offered. But I was unable  to say that the at the transfer 
away was down to advice from Wesleyan. I dont think Wesleyan is responsible  for the fact that Mr 
Ms actual benefits held in his SIPP may be worth a lot less. 
Ref: DRN44896339From what Ive seen the loss assessment has been  undertaken correctly. So I dont think Wesleyan 
needs to do anything more.
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  the complaint  and Im not making  any award. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4489633