K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr P says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
Mr P bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) alongside a mortgage  TMPP can be 
split into sections  Mortgage Repayments  Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover and 
critical illness cover. Mr P has complained about the PPI so Ive looked at the sale of the PPI 
cover only.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr P aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before 
adding it to his mortgage. Mr P has told us he was led to believe the policy was compulsory, 
and that he had to have  it for his mortgage to be approved. I dont  know for certain what  was 
said when the policy was sold, and there isnt much paperwork available, but from what  we 
know about how Halifax sold this type of policy at the time I think  its likely Halifax made Mr P 
aware the PPI was optional, and he chose to take it out, although  I can understand why he 
may not remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr P so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him. Mr P 
has told us he would  have  received  some  sick at the time he took the PPI and had some 
savings. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to and for longer than Mr P would have 
received sick pay, and allowed him to keep  his savings in place to be used towards  other 
essential expenses. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ps circumstances at the time he wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think the policy was right for him.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr P about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said, including that he wasnt told he could  take PPI 
from an alternative provider. But Halfiax were not responsible  for giving  customers details of 
other providers products.  So these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr P paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr P back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN47601922Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr P now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4760192