K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about problems he had making a payment to his credit card account when 
using Sainsburys Bank Plcs online banking system. 
background
Mr C tried to make  a payment to his Sainsburys credit card using  his debit card provided by 
another bank.  He says his payment went through to the payment verification screen,  but he 
didnt receive confirmation  that the payment had been successful.  So he wasnt  sure if the 
payment had been made and he was worried that hed become a victim of fraud. He says 
that Sainsburys website  isnt robust  enough.
So he contacted both Sainsburys and his debit card provider. While he was able to establish  
that no money had left his account - and he subsequently made the payment by another  
method, he says neither business  was able to explain what had initially  gone wrong. Mr C 
says he made numerous phone  calls to try and get to the bottom of the issue  and he feels 
that Sainsburys didnt  take responsibility  for the problem and mis-led  him in this process as 
to what had gone wrong.
Sainsburys says it is unable to determine  what caused the problem Mr C faced. While  it did 
initially indicate that there couldve  been  a blip in its system, it subsequently said that 
checks on the system hadnt established that there  was any fault at its end. It also pointed 
out the fault may have  been with the other  bank  or the device Mr C was using. But it offered  
Mr C £30 as a gesture  of goodwill in recognition of the inconvenience he had having to 
contact it. 
Unhappy with Sainsburys response, Mr C complained to us. Our investigator  didnt uphold 
his complaint. Ultimately,  he said he couldnt  be sure if the problem Mr C experienced was a 
result of anything Sainsburys had done  wrong. He noted that Sainsburys had offered Mr C 
£30 as a gesture of goodwill, but he didnt ask it to do anything  further.  
Mr C didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He 
says during phone  calls with Sainsburys,  it told him the problem was caused  by it. So he 
feels that compensation of £75 would more adequately reflect  the time he spent dealing with 
this issue. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. I realise Mr C will be 
disappointed by my decision, so Ill explain why.
I understand Mr C wants an explanation  for what went wrong  hes made  his strength of 
feeling on this clear as he was worried  about  what might have happened  to his money. But 
unfortunately, it is often  the case in situations  like this that we are unable to determine  
exactly what went wrong. But our role is to see if Mr C has lost out as a result  of the problem 
and, if so, to decide  if the business complained about needs to do anything to put things 
right. That said, we are not the regulator and so it is not for us to decide if Sainsburys on-
line system  is robust enough.   
Ref: DRN46571072From what  Ive seen, I think it was established relatively quickly that Mr Cs payment hadnt 
left his account as a result of the problem he had. And he was able to make  the payment by 
another method. So Mr C hasnt lost out financially as a result.
I note Mr C feels Sainsburys mis-led him as to who was at fault. Hes told us that 
Sainsburys had acknowledged  the problem was caused by it and he has asked us to listen 
to the telephone conversations he had with it. So Ive listened to the call recordings. Having 
done so, I accept that Sainsburys  said that there couldve been  a blip in the system  
during the call. But Im satisfied it went on to explain that there  couldve been  other  reasons 
 not related to it, as to why the payment failed. So I dont think Sainsburys admitted it was 
at fault. It has also told us that it made  enquires  with its incident team but there  werent any 
known issues with their system  on the day Mr C tried to complete his payment. And it has no 
record of any similar complaints from other customers for that day either.
So while I accept there may be occasions  where  business experience unexplainable system 
glitches, I cant be sure Sainsburys  was at fault here. As Sainsburys has pointed  out - and 
from my own personal experience of making similar transactions,  I think its just as possible 
that the problem may have resulted from several other causes. For example, there may have 
been an issue with the other bank, the device Mr C was using, or the internet  connection 
could have simply been lost during the transaction.  
Having thought about this carefully, overall,  I havent seen enough  evidence  that would lead 
me to conclude with certainty that what went wrong  was a result  of anything Sainsburys did. 
And I dont  agree that Sainsburys mis-led Mr C as to who was a fault. So I dont uphold      
Mr Cs complaint.
I note Sainsburys has offered Mr C £30 as a gesture of goodwill. In circumstances  where I 
cant be certain it made a mistake,  I think this offer is fair and reasonable. If Mr C wishes to 
accept the offer, he should contact Sainsburys directly.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Sandra Greene
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4657107