K820x#14Complaint
Miss K had a current account with Barclays Bank UK PLC.   Barclays  used her salary 
payment to pay off her overdraft contrary to her instruction to ring fence this for essential 
bills, leading  to her being unable to manage  her debts.
Background
Due to a change  in circumstances Miss K became in debt and her Barclays current  account 
was overdrawn.  She obtained advice from a debt advice charity who I will refer to as C. 
A debt management plan (DMP) was agreed and put into place by C.
Miss K said she was advised  by C to hand  in a letter, called a First Right of Appropriation, to 
her local Barclays branch. This instructed Barclays not use her salary payment that month to 
offset her overdraft, but to allow it to be used by her to pay her essential bills.
Miss Ks salary  was paid into the Barclays account  the day before the DMP came into effect  
and was used  to clear  the overdraft on the account. This was contrary  to the instruction she 
said she gave Barclays.
As the account  was in credit when the DMP came  into effect,  Barclays  removed the 
overdraft facility. Miss K said this meant  she was unable to afford to pay essential bills. 
Miss K was given a loan of £2,000 by a friend, £1,500 of which  is still owed to her friend.
Miss K did not make the payments agreed  in the DMP,  so the account was closed by 
Barclays.
Miss K complained to Barclays that they had used  her salary to clear her overdraft against  
her specific  instructions and unreasonably removed the overdraft  facility  from her account. 
She wanted this reinstated. She said if Barclays refused, it would  prevent  her paying her bills 
and keeping up with her repayment plans.
In their response, Barclays  said they had followed the correct process in relation to the 
account and overdraft facility. They said they had complied with the agreed DMP. They said 
they had no record  of Miss K serving  on them  a First Right  of Appropriation letter,  and she 
had not contacted them about any issues relating to her account or the DMP until over one 
month after the account was closed.
Miss K did not accept  their response  so referred the complaint to our service.
The investigator considered the DMP that was in place  through C. This plan included the 
overdraft with Barclays. C had records of the advice  they gave Miss K which  included  that 
she should open a new current account  into which  her salary should  be paid, to prevent  it 
being used by the bank  to clear the overdraft.
Ref: DRN44364852C said there was no record of them advising her to write  a First Right  of Appropriation letter 
and hand it in at the bank as Miss K said they had. Barclays  have  said there is no record of 
her handing  it in, or of them receiving this letter. The investigator also noted that Miss K 
didnt contact Barclays when it was clear to her that they had apparently acted  contrary  to 
her instructions. Her view was that she was unable to conclude that the letter was written  as 
she said it had been.
The investigators view was that as her salary was paid into her account before  the DMP 
came into effect, and because she thought, on balance, Barclays  had not received 
instructions not to, it was reasonable for them  to use the salary to clear the debt on the 
account.
The investigator was of the view that it was reasonable  for Barclays  to withdraw  the overdraft 
facility from the account as there  was a DMP in place and this could prevent Miss K getting 
into further debt.  As such she felt it would be unreasonable for her to tell Barclays  to 
reimburse the equivalent of the overdraft  as this would still be money that she owed and was 
never hers in the first place.
She also felt Barclays had acted reasonably and in support of Miss K in allowing some direct 
debits to be paid from her account a few days after the DMP came into effect.  This was 
because, had the direct debits been  returned unpaid, the impact on Miss K could have been 
more significant,  increasing debt with others.
Miss K asked for this matter to be referred  to an ombudsman  for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where there is conflicting information 
available, I need  to decide what I think is most likely to have happened on the balance  of 
probability.
My decision  is the same  as the investigators  view,  for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain 
why.
The crux of this matter  is whether Barclays were fair in using Miss Ks salary  to clear her 
overdraft. And whether  they acted reasonably in withdrawing  this facility once the debt was 
cleared.
To assess this, Ive first looked at the advice C gave Miss K when they provided her a DMP. 
This included that she should change the bank  account that her salary  is paid into, to 
prevent Barclays using it to clear  the overdraft. This was because  the overdraft had been  
included as a debt the DMP was in place to clear,  and it would mean that her salary was 
available to make  her other essential  payments. 
Miss K says the advice also included that she should write  a First Right  of Appropriation  
letter to Barclays, instructing them not to offset her salary  against her overdraft. C have said 
they have no record of giving this and it is not included in their written advice, but they have 
said it would  have been reasonable advice to give in Miss Ks circumstances. 
In my view, this letter is key in considering  whether Barclays were  fair as it seems  they acted 
in direct contradiction  of her instructions. Miss K has said she took this letter  in by hand on 
Ref: DRN44364853the day it was written and signed. Barclays have said they have no record  of the letter  being  
received by them, but Miss K has provided  us a copy of this letter, dated 18 August 2017. 
The last paragraph  of the letter states: 
You have  been  contacted by (C) in regards to my debt management plan starting on 1st 
September 2017 and this has included my overdraft in the plan. I can see by your letter in 
August that you have  received and accepted  the payment plan, many  thanks for your reply  
to this.
I have looked  at the time-line of events. The DMP was produced by C on 17 August. Miss K 
said this letter was written  and handed in on 18 August. Barclays contact notes say they 
received the DMP  on 29 August, yet the final paragraph of the letter says they had already 
received the DMP,  accepted it and replied. This is an anomaly which has caused  me to 
question the authenticity of the letter as I cant see how they could have accepted  the DMP 
and replied only one day after it was produced and apparently over a week  before they 
actually knew about it.
In addition to the above,  I am also surprised  that given Barclays have apparently  acted in 
direct contradiction to her written instructions, Miss K did not contact them to question this 
when it happened. I have  seen records of her contact with C four days  later in which she 
says Barclays have  cleared her overdraft but makes  no mention of the letter,  or them  acting 
wrongly.
On balance, I am unable  to place much reliance on the letter and think  it is more likely  than 
not that it wasnt received by Barclays. This is because  of the lack of support for Miss Ks 
version of events from both C and Barclays, the date anomaly on the letter, and her lack of 
contact with Barclays.
Having come to this conclusion, I dont think  it was unreasonable  for Barclays to use 
Miss Ks salary  payment to clear  her overdraft. As she was in a DMP it was also reasonable 
for them to remove her overdraft facility  to prevent her getting into more debt.
Having concluded  that they acted reasonably, it would  not be fair to ask them  to reimburse  
Miss K with money from the overdraft  that they were correct  in recovering.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February  2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4436485