K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2005. Mr S says HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
From the information Mr S has given us it seems  he is unsure of how the policy  was sold to 
him - ticking both the branch  and telephone  options  on his completed  questionnaire. HSBC 
says it has no record of whether the PPI was sold in a branch or over the telephone  and 
given the amount of time that has passed since it was sold, it can no longer provide the 
original documents  from the time of the sale. And I dont think  thats unreasonable  
particularly as the policy was only in place  for a few months. 
While Mr S says he wasnt  told PPI was optional, hes not given us any further details or 
recollections of the sale  which I can understand as it was so long ago. But without more 
evidence, I cant say its more likely  that HSBC didnt make it clear that he didnt have  to take 
out PPI or that Mr S didnt  choose to take it out. And from what I know  about  HSBCs sales 
processes at the time,  I think the policy wouldve been presented as optional.
Its possible HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr S. If it did, it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on the information  hes provided  of his circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. For example, Ive not seen  anything to suggest  he would have been 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a 
need for the cover.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think its likely he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover at the time. And as above, I think it was right for him. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But HSBC  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
 HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  HSBC  didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair. 
 To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  
that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.  
Ref: DRN44514742my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S. 
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my 
decision before  28 March 2020.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4451474