K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland,  trading  as Halifax,  mis-sold two mortgages to him.
background
In August  2008,  Mr R took out a mortgage  of around £75,000 on an interest  only repayment 
basis over a term of nine years. Mr R intended  to use the funds to purchase  a rental property  
(Property A), but the funds were  secured  against  his home.
A few months later, Mr R took out a further mortgage of around £60,000 on an interest  only 
repayment basis over a term of ten years, secured against a new property he intended to let 
(Property B). 
Mr R complains the mortgages were mis-sold because:
Halifax advised him to take the borrowing on an interest-only basis  and didnt  give 
him the option  of taking it on a capital  and interest repayment basis;
Halifax didnt tell him some of the borrowing would be secured on his home, or that 
the mortgages would only run for a fixed term; and
He was sold a residential mortgage to buy a property Halifax knew  he was going to 
let.
Halifax said that it thought Mr Rs complaint wasnt one we could consider as it thought it had 
been brought to our service  outside the time limits set by the regulator.
Another ombudsman  previously issued a decision about our jurisdiction to consider Mr Rs 
complaint. She concluded that we were able to consider  Mr Rs first complaint point, that he 
hadnt been given the option of taking  out the mortgages on a capital and interest repayment 
basis, but that his other points had been brought out of time.
Our investigator then considered Mr Rs first complaint  point. She didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr R didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ive thought about the time limits  for bringing a complaint to our service  set out by the 
financial services regulator.  Im satisfied, in line with the decision made by the previous 
ombudsman, that Im only able to consider  Mr Rs first point.
Halifax says the first mortgage,  secured  against Mr Rs home,  was sold on an advised  basis.  
But it believes the second mortgage, secured against Property B, was sold on a non-advised 
basis.
Mr R has told us that when he arranged the mortgage on Property B, he relied on the advice 
he received at the time he took out the first mortgage. Given the short  space of time in which 
Mr R took out both mortgages, Im persuaded that its likely that he already had plans to 
purchase both Properties  A and B and sought  advice on that basis. So I think its likely that 
although Mr R may not have received  advice  when he took out the second mortgage, in 
practice, it was an advised sale.
Ref: DRN47653422Halifaxs adviser needed to give Mr R a suitable recommendation, based on his needs  and 
circumstances at the time. In doing that, the adviser also needed to take into account his 
ability to repay the mortgages at the end of the term. Overall, I think  Halifax did that, and Ill 
explain why.
Mr R has said that hed always taken  out mortgages  on a capital  and interest repayment 
basis, and would have  done the same with these mortgages had he been  given the option.  
I cant say for certain exactly  what Halifaxs adviser and Mr R discussed during their 
meeting, so Ive thought about  whats more likely  to have happened on the balance of 
probabilities.
The application notes  for the first mortgage state that Mr R wanted  a flexible mortgage with 
no tie in as he wanted to be able to repay [the] loan whenever he wanted. The notes also 
say that Mr R had enough  funds saved  to purchase Property A outright if he wished, though 
Mr R says that wasnt the case.
Halifax has said that an interest only mortgage  offered  Mr R more flexibility to make  
overpayments than a capital and interest repayment  mortgage.  The mortgage offer shows  
there were no early repayment charges on the first mortgage, if Mr R chose to make  
overpayments.
Ive also thought about whether capital and interest  repayment mortgages would have been 
affordable for Mr R, based on the information he gave  about his income and other 
commitments at the time.  
I think its likely Mr R would have met the affordability criteria for a capital and interest  
repayment mortgage for the first mortgage  
Mr Rs intention was to use the funds for both mortgages to purchase investment properties 
 Properties A and B, which  he intended  to let. The notes from the time state  that he 
intended to do significant renovation work on both properties, so I think  its likely there would 
have been a period where he wouldnt have been receiving further income  from rent. He was 
sold a residential  mortgage to cover  the period of renovation, and it was intended this be 
converted to buy to let once it was ready to let.
Given those factors, I think Mr R may have struggled to meet  Halifaxs  affordability 
requirements to take out both mortgages on capital and interest  repayment. So I dont think 
Halifaxs advisers recommendation to take the mortgages on an interest only payment basis 
was unreasonable.
In any case, at the time, the sale of a property was a suitable  repayment strategy for an 
interest only mortgage  especially where,  as here, that wouldnt involve the sale of his 
home. Indeed,  sale of another  property is still often an acceptable repayment strategy now.  
And its common for buy to let mortgages to be set up on an interest  only basis. I understand 
that Mr R put both properties on the market, but unfortunately he hasnt been able to sell 
them. But I dont think thats something  Halifax could have foreseen  when the mortgages 
were sold,  and I dont think its a reason to consider the mortgages to have been  mis-sold 
now.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think Halifax mis-sold the mortgages to Mr R, and I 
dont uphold his complaint.
Ref: DRN47653423Im conscious that the mortgage terms both expired  over a year ago now,  and the balances 
are due. Mr R has not raised a complaint  about  the way Halifax  has acted at the end of the 
term, so I have not considered whats happening now in this decision. However, I note from 
his recent  email that Mr R has now been able to get mortgages elsewhere  to repay these 
loans. But I dont think Halifax  is responsible for his costs in doing  so.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4765342