K820x#14complaint
This complaint has been brought by the estate of Mr S and relates  to a buy to let (BTL) 
mortgage held with Santander  UK Plc.
The estate  is represented here by the executor Mrs S, who was the late Mr Ss wife.
background and findings
I issued my provisional decision earlier this month;  a copy of which  is attached to, and forms 
part of, this final decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I wasnt  minded to 
uphold this complaint.  I invited  both parties  to let me have any further submissions  before  
I reached a final decision.
Mrs S initially said she had nothing  further  to add. Santander responded to say its gesture of 
goodwill offer to pay half the legal fees had been  withdrawn as that had been  made  in a 
genuine attempt  to resolve a long-standing  complaint  to prevent it escalating and being 
delayed further.  It said the offer wasnt merited.
Our investigator asked  Mrs S if she wanted to make any further submissions following the 
withdrawal of the offer. Following that Mrs S sent an email, but that just reiterated  points  
shed already made, and which Id already considered when I reached my provisional 
findings. 
Ive reviewed all the submissions carefully,  and considered the case  afresh, but my opinion 
hasnt changed.  I dont uphold this complaint for all the reasons  given  in my provisional 
decision.
Mrs S has said shes not received information  shed asked for from Santander showing the 
true financial  situation on the mortgage  account  and asked if we can make  it provide this. 
Thats not something wed get involved with here as we dont need that information to decide 
this complaint and so its a matter between Mrs S and Santander.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mrs S (on behalf of the estate  of Mr S) to accept or reject my decision before 
20 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN45221252COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint has been  brought by the estate of Mr S and relates to a buy to let (BTL) mortgage held 
with Santander UK Plc.
The estate is represented here by the executor Mrs S, who was the late Mr Ss wife. The other person 
I will need  to make  reference to in this decision  - albeit  hes not party to this complaint - is the 
beneficiary of the estate,  the late Mr Ss son, who I will refer to as Mr S1.
background
Mr S held this BTL mortgage with Santander  at the time he died in June 2006. Probate  was granted in 
November 2006 with Mrs S appointed as executor;  Mr S1 was the beneficiary.
In 2006 and 2007 Santander wrote to Mrs S to say the mortgage account needed to be repaid or 
transferred into Mr S1s name.
In 2007 Mr S1 put in an application to transfer the mortgage into his name but that never completed 
so the mortgage has remained in the name of the estate of Mr S. As part of the application the 
correspondence address  for the mortgage  account was changed to that of Mr S1 (from being Mrs Ss) 
and unfortunately when the application didnt complete  the address wasnt changed  back. This meant 
all the correspondence  from that point was sent to Mr S1 rather than Mrs S. Throughout this entire 
period Mr S1 has been  making  the monthly mortgage  payments.
Mrs S has told us that she remarried in 2007  and moved house in the July of that year. She has also 
said that she moved  six times since  then and hadnt notified Santander of her new addresses. In 
March 2008 a letter was sent to Mrs S at her previous address that shed moved from in 2007 which 
said the application to transfer  the mortgage and property into Mr S1s name hadnt completed,  and 
asked she contact  Santander to discuss it further.
As Mr S1 isnt party  to this complaint we cant see any of the information  that was sent to him, 
however we do know a letter was sent to Mr S1 in 2015  as Mrs S has told us that, albeit she says Mr 
S1 didnt tell her about it at the time. Shes said that letter  requested the mortgage be paid off, but 
when Mr S1 went to a branch to do so he was told Santander  couldnt  deal with him as it wasnt his 
account. It seems Mr S1 then took no further action,  nor did he let Mrs S know of the issue.
Santander began litigation in July 2016  on the grounds the mortgage hadnt been repaid despite it 
being so long since Mr S had died. It obtained a possession order  in 2018 but then before eviction 
action was taken Mrs S raised a complaint.  The eviction  was cancelled, and the mortgage was repaid 
in full about a week later by Mrs S and Mr S1.
Santander refunded its litigation costs  on the grounds that it hadnt formally notified the estate before 
taking action, as letters at that time were going to Mr S1 (the beneficiary) instead of Mrs S (the 
executor). It also offered compensation. I understand Mrs S accepted the refund, but not the 
compensation. Mrs S referred the complaint to us as she wanted  her legal  costs of £1,981.50  
covered, as well as an increased sum in compensation.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and felt Mrs Ss legal costs should be covered  but explained  
we cant award compensation for distress and inconvenience to an estate. Santander said as a 
gesture of goodwill  it would cover half Mrs Ss legal  costs. We put that offer to Mrs S but she didnt  
accept it as she wants all her costs to be covered, plus interest on that sum.  As the parties  didnt 
reach an agreement, its been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN45221253my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I trust Mrs S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed this 
complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute  resolution service, and Ive concentrated  
on what I consider  to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered  the whole file Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont  comment on any specific point its not because  
Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome.
Under our rules, we can consider  a complaint  from a consumer. Mr S was the consumer originally  but 
when he died the right to complain passed to his estate.  But I must  explain that, although Mrs S is 
representing the estate,  shes not Santanders customer here, nor is Mr S1. Mrs Ss role is to bring 
the complaint on behalf of the estate,  in the same way that a person might  instruct a solicitor or other 
professional to represent them in a complaint.  
I dont have the power to look at a complaint from Mrs S or Mr S1 in their personal  capacity or look at 
how this matter has affected them personally.  In saying this I understand the points Mrs S has made  
and its clear that this matter has been difficult and frustrating for her and Mr S1 to deal with, but thats 
just not something Ive got the power  to consider. This also means I cant  make an award for any 
distress and/or inconvenience caused to Mrs S or Mr S1.
Its not in dispute that Santander made a mistake when it wrote to Mr S1 about this account rather 
than Mrs S (as executor of the estate).  That said there are other issues at play here. The problems 
came about because Mrs S didnt settle Mr Ss estate after his death  in 2006. Santander was clear  in 
2006 and 2007 that this mortgage needed to be repaid or transferred into Mr S1s name. It was never  
an option to simply leave it running  as it was. It also wrote  to Mrs S in March 2008  to notify her the 
transfer to Mr S1s name hadnt taken place, albeit unbeknown to Santander Mrs S had moved from 
that address by then.
We dont  know why Mr S1 failed to complete the transfer into his name  but it seems he had both an 
interest in the property, as the beneficiary, and in the mortgage as Mrs S said he was the one making  
the monthly payments.  So whilst Santander made a mistake in writing to Mr S1 rather Mrs S one 
would have thought it would have been in Mr S1s interests  to act on those letters, to notify Santander  
of the mistake in addressing  them to him, or to pass them to Mrs S to deal with. Instead it seems from 
what Mrs S has told us Mr S1 made one visit to a branch in 2015, which  he didnt tell her about the 
time, and then did nothing further.
Another difficulty we have here is that Mrs S has admitted she moved house in July 2007 and then 
moved many times since and didnt notify Santander  of her new addresses. She said Santander could 
have easily traced her as shes  always had addresses within the UK, but thats not the point as its not 
Santanders responsibility to do so. 
Mrs S knew the estate held this mortgage and that Santander would be corresponding  with her about  
it, even  if that was just annual mortgage statements and other general information, so she had a 
responsibility to keep  Santander updated  with her correct address. She also knew Santander had said 
that the mortgage  had to be repaid, or transferred  into Mr S1s name, and couldnt just be left to run 
as it was. As I said, Santander had no responsibility  to try to trace Mrs S so, despite it being a 
mistake, Mrs S and Mr S1 were more likely to have been kept informed about  the status of this 
mortgage by the post going to Mr S1 instead of an address Mrs S no longer lived at.
Mrs S said there have never been any arrears on the mortgage and has questioned why action was 
taken so many years after Mr Ss death.  There may not have  been any arrears  on the mortgage but 
the account was in breach of the terms and conditions  as it wasnt paid off (or transferred into Mr S1s 
name) when Mr S died. It can only be said to be good customer  service for Santander to have allowed  
Mrs S and Mr S1 leeway  for so long to allow the estate to be settled  and the mortgage to either be 
redeemed or for it to be transferred into Mr S1s name, so I cant  criticise  it for that. I also cant  criticise  
Ref: DRN45221254it for eventually losing  patience  and enforcing the breach in the mortgage terms and conditions  by 
taking the matter  to court.
Its unfortunate Mrs S, as executor, wasnt notified by Santander of the court  action. However it seems 
likely Mr S1 would have been notified as all the correspondence was going to him. Thats  not 
something I can check as Mr S1 isnt party to this complaint so I cant obtain information  relating to 
him. But I have no reason  to believe the correct documentation wouldnt have been sent to Mr S1 as 
part of the litigation  process. However this complaint doesnt turn on that, as even if Santander had 
continued to write to Mrs S instead, by her own admission  those  letters wouldnt have reached her as 
shed moved  house and not updated Santander with her whereabouts.
I dont uphold  this complaint  as Im satisfied  on balance  that even if Santander had continued  to 
write to Mrs S, the letters most likely  wouldnt  have reached  her anyway and so the outcome would 
have remained the same.  For that reason  I make  no order or award.
Whilst Santander has offered to pay half the legal costs incurred by the estate that isnt an award I 
would have made. Santander has already  refunded  the legal costs it incurred,  and I understand the 
offer to cover  half the estates  legal costs was made as a gesture of goodwill. I dont  know if 
Santander will leave  that offer open, and its not something we can get involved with as its not 
compensation that Im ordering Santander  to pay. I can only suggest  Mrs S get in touch with 
Santander directly to discuss that.
my provisional  decision
Im provisionally  minded  to not uphold  this complaint and so make no order or award.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4522125