K821x#15Complaint
Ms J is complaining about Falcon  International Financial Services Ltd (FIFS) because  of 
losses shes incurred as a result of transferring her pension benefits to a self-invested 
personal pension  (SIPP)  to fund high-risk, unregulated investments. She says she was an 
unsophisticated retail  investor and the investments shouldnt have been  promoted to her in 
the first place.
Background
Following events that Ms J says started  with an unsolicited  call from a Mr B of Falcon 
International Estates (FIE).  Following this call, on 6 February 2012, he sent her an email  that 
said:
Further to our telephone conversation, attached is a company brochure containing 
further information about Falcon International Estates. Please take the opportunity' to 
peruse this at your earliest convenience.
I will call you over the next couple  of days to discuss  how we have helped a number 
of private investors  to consolidate and utilise old or existing pensions for fresh  
investments away from the stock  market. Should  you have any questions  concerning  
the information enclosed or our investments in general, please do not hesitate to get 
in contact
Ms J subsequently transferred benefits  held in a defined benefit  occupational pension 
scheme to a SIPP with Stadia Trustees (Stadia). A Stadia application was completed  on 29 
May 2012 and the SIPP was established on 12 June  2012. The benefits  from Ms Js 
occupational pension (totalling around £187,000) were then transferred into the SIPP on 24 
July 2012. The following  day,  £150,000 of the money in the SIPP was used to fund an 
investment in FR Land, an unregulated scheme investing in land. The original application for 
the investment  was dated 29 May 2012,  the same date as the SIPP application.
An independent financial adviser (IFA), Howard  Taylor Associates (HTA), was also involved 
in arranging the SIPP and pension transfer and received a fee from Stadia for its services.
Prior to receiving Mr Bs call, Ms J says she had no intention of transferring  her pension 
benefits.
Ms J has since realised  the investment might not have been  suitable for her needs  and 
made a complaint about both FIFS and HTA. Her complaint  about  HTA was upheld  by one 
of my colleagues, who said it should  have  been  evident to HTA that the pension  transfer and 
investment were unsuitable. He didnt feel the evidence showed that Ms J was an investor 
with sufficient experience  to understand the risks of what  was being proposed; or that she 
fell within  the investor  categories set out by the regulator to whom  this type of investment 
could lawfully be marketed; or that investing the majority of her funds  in a single, high risk, 
unregulated investment could be suitable. I understand Ms J eventually received 
compensation totalling £120,000 from HTA. But this is significantly less than the amount she 
believes shes lost as a result of the pensions transfer and unregulated investment.
Our adjudicator recommended  this complaint be upheld. She didnt believe FIFS should  
have promoted  the investment to Ms J in the first place.
Ref: DRN48109092FIFS didnt accept the adjudicators assessment. Its legal representative said responsibility  
for giving investment advice rested  with HTA. FIFS relied on information  provided by Ms J 
and referred her to HTA for a suitability  assessment  on her instruction. It said FIFS cant  and 
shouldnt be held liable for the acts or omissions of HTA and made the following key points:
FIFS is part of The Falcon Group  of companies.  Among its other financial services 
activities, The Falcon Group manages  unregulated collective investment schemes  in 
relation to strategic land investments.
Falcon International Estates Limited  (FIE) was a separate company in The Falcon 
Group and approached  potential  investors by telephone to discuss  the benefits of 
investing in land generally and the possible investment structures  that could be used 
to do this. FIE didnt discuss or promote  specific investment opportunities. 
If a potential investor was interested in receiving more information about investing  in 
land, FIE referred  them to IFAs, such as HTA. FIFS had no involvement in this 
process. It was necessary because neither the FIE representative  who approached 
Ms J, Mr B, nor FIE itself were authorised to provide investment advice to potential 
investors.
In FIE's initial discussions with potential investors, it asked  a series of questions for 
the purpose of collecting  the relevant information  and HTA provided  FIE with a 
template form called a "fact find". All completed  fact find forms were  then passed by 
FIE to HTA in respect of any potential  investors  who confirmed to FIE they were 
willing to be referred to HTA. This was the end of FIE's involvement.
Upon receipt of any completed  fact find, HTA considered  it with any potential  investor  
and completed a suitability test in accordance with the rules of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Once HTA had completed  this suitability  assessment, it provided the 
potential investor with independent financial advice on whether he/she should invest.
If HTA determined an investment would be suitable for the potential investor, it then 
referred him/her to Falcon Group. Falcon  Group  would then provide the potential 
investor with documentation  relating to an investment  scheme.
Mr B was not authorised (or able) to give, and did not give, investment advice to Ms J 
in relation to her investments.  As a representative of FIE, Mr B simply approached 
potential investors to discuss the potential benefits of investing in land and the 
possible investment  structures that could be used to do so.
Ms J says Mr B was insistent after first making  contact and called her at least once 
each week for several weeks.  But this cant be right as only one week  and a day 
passed between  the initial call and Mr B sending  a fact find and letter of authority to 
Ms J for her to complete.
Ms J, having been speculatively  approached by Mr B, expressed an interest  in 
investing and Mr B, having completed  HTAs fact find document, referred  her to HTA. 
The purpose of this was so that HTA, an IFA, could  undertake a suitability 
assessment to determine whether Ms J was suited to an investment. The 
responsibility for assessing  the risks of an investment for Ms J by reference to her 
risk appetite and investment sophistication rested solely  with HTA. This is confirmed 
Ref: DRN48109093in the "Independent  Financial Advisers'  Declaration"  (which formed part of the 
investment application signed by Ms J) signed  by HTA, which  said:
I/We have reviewed this application for a land purchase and confirm  that the 
investment is suitable for the applicant's circumstances and attitude to risk. 
The Memorandum has been  disclosed to the applicant and any queries have 
been dealt with. We will notify FRFS of any variation  to this application  form 
or anything  we believe to be incorrect.
The view Ms J wouldnt have put her pension funds at risk if shed understood the 
risks associated  with the investments  is at odds  with the fact find she signed that said 
she was willing to accept  a high level of risk with her investment portfolio.  
Furthermore, the fact find clearly said:
In the event of land purchases,  l/we understand that certain  risk investments, 
especially investments  in land, may not be readily  realisable as there may not 
be a ready  market for the sale of such  investments and that access to reliable 
data for valuing such investments may be restricted.
The adjudicator  referred to false information being included  in the fact find, but all of 
the information it contained was confirmed verbally to Mr B by Ms J. Indeed, she 
signed the fact find and Mr B recalls that she read it through  before doing  so. By 
accepting Ms Js account of events  on such a firm basis,  the adjudicator is essentially 
determining that Mr B fraudulently produced Ms Js application documents  and he 
denies this. 
FIFS cant comment on whether Ms J actually met with HTA, but it would expect HTA 
to meet  with investors it advised  to proceed with an investment, or at least speak with 
them over the telephone,  in order to comply with regulatory requirements. The fact 
HTA certified various documents confirming Ms Js identity,  including that the 
photograph on her driving licence was a true likeness, indicates there was a meeting 
of some kind.
In any event, even  if Ms J didnt meet with HTA in person, that doesnt  mean  FIFS or 
FIE should be held responsible for unsuitable investment advice given, or failure to 
give investment advice, by HTA.
In another complaint in which the circumstances are very similar, FIFSs representative 
provided further submissions relating to the promotion of the land investments. It provided  a 
letter and flow chart  obtained from FIFS compliance consultants about the marketing 
process, which was described as follows:
Falcon identifies individuals who might have  an interest in purchasing  land, 
and for whom a purchase of land might be appropriate. These are general 
conversations and do not amount to financial promotion;
An IFA then classifies such individuals, using the categorisation  in COBS 
3.5.3, either as elective professional clients or as retail  clients;
Elective professional  clients (but not retail clients) can then be sent an 
Information Memorandum as permitted under COBS 4.12.4;
Subsequently, the IFA assesses the suitability of an investment  in land for the 
client on the basis of the full fact find.
Ref: DRN48109094I am satisfied that no investor would be provided  with an Information Memorandum 
unless and until the investor had been categorised as an elective professional client.
When the compliance consultant referred to Falcon identifying individuals  who might  have  an 
interest in purchasing land, it appears to be referring  to FIE as this is consistent  with what  
FIFSs representative has said elsewhere. FIFSs  representative then made the following 
points in its covering  email dated 12 May 2017:
FCA rules  set out certain circumstances where  an authorised firm (and its appointed 
representatives) may communicate a financial promotion relating to an unregulated 
collective investment scheme  UCIS  without breaching  Section 238 of the Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000 (FSMA), summarised in paragraph 8.20.4 of the 
Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG). These circumstances are set out in section 
4.12.4 of the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS).
COBS 4.12.4(7) provided that UCIS  can be marketed to professional clients  without 
breaching the Section 238 of FSMA. The third bullet  point of the above  letter  confirms  
that this is the approach taken by Falcon.  On this basis.  Falcon  marketed 
unregulated collective investment schemes in accordance with the FCA rules in 
COBS 4.12.4(7) and did not breach Section 238 of FSMA.
FIE followed the marketing process  outlined above, which means  it was HTA that 
assessed the consumer as a professional client  and informed FIFS of this. 
Responsibility for determining the type of client the consumer was rested with HTA 
and FIFS was entitled to rely on its assessment.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my reasons why I felt the complaint should be 
upheld. A copy of my reasoning is attached and forms part of this decision. FIFS didnt 
accept my findings and its legal representative  made the following key points:
A significant part of my provisional  decision relates to whether or not FIFS itself was 
required to carry out the elective professional client assessment under COBS 3.5.3. 
This isnt relevant.  Ive taken it that FIFS is relying  on the category 7 exemption set 
out in 4.12.4 to justify its promotion  of the investment to Ms J but thats not correct. 
FIFS is instead relying on the category  2 exemption, which says it needed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the investment was suitable for her before promoting it.
The reasonable steps FIFS  took to ensure the investment was suitable for Ms J 
included:
referring her to an experienced IFA for a suitability assessment;
obtaining written  information  from HTA in respect  of the suitability  assessment  
it conducted; and
considering the information provided to it in respect of Ms Js suitability to 
ensure it was able to rely on the category 2 exemption before promoting the 
investment.
I should reconsider my view that FIFS shouldnt have placed  reliance  on the 
information it received  from HTA because its contrary to the FCAs rules  and 
guidance and inconsistent with previous decisions made  by other  ombudsmen.
It agrees that COBS  2.4.6 covering reliance on information provided by others is 
relevant as FIFS placed reliance  on the suitability assessment performed by HTA. 
Ref: DRN48109095But its provided further information that it believes will change  my interpretation  and 
application of COBS 2.4.8.
My provisional decision doesnt  include any analysis of how COBS 2.4.8 applies to 
the facts of the case. Its inconsistent with the generally accepted  application of the 
FCA rules to revert to the regulatory  Principles without first analysing the requirement 
in COBS itself. DISP 3.6.4  requires  me to take account of the regulators guidance 
and standards  when  considering whats fair and reasonable.
With regard to the requirements in COBS 2.4.8, information relating to Ms Js 
suitability was provided to FIFS in writing.  For example, the investment application 
included the IFA declaration,  signed by HTA, confirming the investment is suitable for 
the applicants  circumstances and attitude to risk. Also,  this information  was provided 
by an unconnected authorised person, HTA. Finally,  there was no reason for FIFS to 
doubt the accuracy of this information  for the following reasons:
FIFS carried out extensive due diligence on the systems and controls 
operated by HTA, including in relation to its suitability assessment, at the start 
of their commercial relationship that began in 2011. 
FIFS had an ongoing relationship with HTA and carried out due diligence  on 
an ongoing basis. This involved HTA attending weekly meetings at FIFSs 
office to discuss each individual potential investor in detail, reviewing and 
discussing the information provided  by each potential investor, their risk 
profile and the assessment that had been  undertaken  by HTA. These  
discussions also took account of the meetings that took place between  HTA 
and potential investors, including that with Ms J. FIFS  and HTA also had 
regular telephone conversations, sometimes on a daily basis,  to discuss the 
suitability assessments that were being  undertaken by HTA. HTA would also 
have ongoing  discussions with the potential investor and provided FIFS with 
regular updates on these discussions. 
HTA had been authorised and regulated by the FCA and its predecessors 
since 1995. During that time,  the regulators  hadnt taken  any enforcement 
action against  HTA for breaching  regulatory requirements.
My provisional decision contradicts the guidance  and commentary  thats been 
published by the regulator. For example, when the Markets in Financial  Instruments 
Directive (MiFID) was implemented, the regulator commented on the rules which 
allow a firm to place  reliance on other  firms who may be in the chain for the 
provision of investment  services. It said their effect was to minimise unnecessary 
regulatory burdens by permitting  one firm to rely on anothers  efforts . In respect of 
the reliance provisions more generally, the regulator also said their effect was 
proportionate regulation  it avoids more than one firm having to comply  with the 
same requirement in respect  of the one client/transaction . Whereas,  in my 
provisional decision, Im in effect  suggesting FIFS needed to conduct  its own 
suitability assessment for Ms J despite the fact HTA had already done  it.
Ive effectively said that in promoting the investment to Ms J, FIFS breached the 
regulators Principles. The FCAs rules state  theres  an enforcement  procedure  if 
there are allegations of a breach and this hasnt been followed. I dont have the 
jurisdiction or the information at my disposal  to make such  a determination. Its 
Ref: DRN48109096inappropriate for me to comment on the rules and regulatory provisions, including the 
Principles, which are not the subject of this Complaint, havent been considered by 
the FCA, and are beyond  my remit to consider.
There were  inaccuracies in my provisional  decision, including:
on page 3, I said HTA didnt operate on an arms length basis. It did in fact 
operate on an arms length basis  from FIFS, which isnt clear  from my 
statement; 
in the section entitled Putting Things Right,  I said HTAs role was restricted  
to arranging the pension and classifying  Ms J as a professional  client,  which 
isnt correct as it also provided investment advice to her; and
I also said that I didnt  think Ms J would have  otherwise transferred her 
pension benefits  to the SIPP as the only reason for doing so was to facilitate  
the use of UCIS. This isnt correct  as HTA advised her to do this.
Ms Js recollection is unreliable. For example, she says that after his initial contact, 
Mr B called her at least once each  week for several weeks.  As I said in my 
provisional decision this cant  be right as only one week and a day passed between  
the initial call and him sending a fact find and letter of authority for completion. Given  
Ive acknowledged  her recollection  is incorrect, it questions the basis on which  Ive 
said I find her submissions compelling .
I then reconsidered  the complaint in light of his response.  Having  done  so, I still felt the 
complaint should  be upheld  and I issued a second  provisional decision addressing the points 
raised by FIFSs representative. A copy of my reasoning is attached and forms part of this 
decision. FIFS still didnt  accept my findings and its representative made the following key 
points that it says are intended to address the issues raised in four separate  complaints Im 
currently considering,  including  this one:
The sales process changed from 1 January 2014, when the rules in COBS 4.12 were 
amended and the category 2 exemption covering the promotion of UCIS  was 
removed. Prior  to this date, FIFS relied  on the category 2 exemption to promote its 
products. After this date,  it relied  on the category 7 exemption.  It provided  flowcharts  
outlining how each  of these processes worked.
FIFS was entitled to rely on a suitability assessment completed by the IFAs. On the 
issue of whether information about  the suitability assessment was completed in 
writing, I said the application  was presumably completed after the investment had 
been promoted and therefore  any suitability assessment may have taken place after 
promotion. But Ive provided no evidence for this.
Further, FIFS and the IFAs werent connected. While  the term isnt described in the 
Handbook Glossary, my interpretation is irrational and inconsistent with the definition  
of connected that applies in a different context  elsewhere in the Handbook.
Guidance from the regulator issued during the implementation of the Markets in 
Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID)  allowed a firm to place reliance on another  
that was in the chain for the provision of investment services. The stated aim of this 
was to minimise  unnecessary regulatory  burdens by permitting one firm to rely on 
anothers efforts. In respect  of the reliance provisions, more generally the FSA has 
also said their effect is proportionate regulation  it avoids more than one firm having 
to comply with the same  requirement in respect  of one client  transaction. I should  
Ref: DRN48109097have regard to this when interpreting the term unconnected in the context of placing 
reliance on another  firm.
The definition of connected that should  apply is that in COBS 4.12, which is linked 
to the UCIS marketing  exemptions.  Note 2 in COBS  4.12(4) says:
A company is 'connected' with another company if:
they are both in the same group; or
one company is entitled, either  alone or with another  company in the 
same group , to exercise or control  the exercise of a majority of the voting 
rights attributable to the share capital, which are exercisable in all 
circumstances at any general meeting of the other company or of its holding  
company.
Using this definition, FIFS could  not be said to be connected with the IFAs.
Finally, FIFS  had no reasonable  grounds to doubt the accuracy of the suitability 
assessments completed by the IFAs. I may not agree  with the outcome  of a suitability 
assessment based on the consumers circumstances, but this isnt the issue  to be 
considered. The issue to be determined is whether FIFS was entitled  to rely on the 
information it was given by the IFAs.
Ive referred to supporting documents provided  by the consumers but FIFS didnt 
have, and wasnt required to have, this information. It relied on the information 
provided by the IFAs and had no reason to doubt  this because of the extensive due 
diligence measures it had in place and that have been described previously.
Ive also said that the information on which the IFAs suitability assessment was 
based should have given  it reasonable grounds  to doubt the accuracy of that 
assessment. But as stated by the regulator and outlined  above, the whole  purpose  of 
the reliance rules was to minimise unnecessary regulatory burdens and prevent 
duplication of effort. So FIFS  wasnt required to receive or review all of the 
information on which the IFAs suitability assessment was based.  
Ive said the due diligence measures FIFS put in place suggest the relationship  
between it and the IFAs was close, indicating a connection in respect of the 
investment schemes  being promoted.  But actually the measures were  entirely  
reasonable to ensure FIFS complied with its regulatory obligations. Otherwise,  it 
seems any step taken to ensure the accuracy  of the information it received from the 
IFAs would  lead me to consider there was a connection and no reliance could be 
placed on their suitability assessments. Applying  my comments  would lead to a 
situation where COBS  2.4.6(2) would never  allow an authorised  firm to place reliance 
on another authorised firm to comply with any rule requiring it to obtain information.
In summary,  my analysis  in respect  of COBS 2.4.8 and its application to these 
complaints is inconsistent with the generally accepted  application of the FCA rules.
FIFS has operated  the sales process discussed  in these complaints for more than 10 
years. Neither FIFS nor any other  company within  the Falcon Group has ever been  
sanctioned by the regulator in respect of any regulatory rule breaches.  While Im 
Ref: DRN48109098entitled to consider and comment on regulatory rules and principles, it questions 
whether I have the power to decide whether a rule breach has taken place or 
whether its necessary for me to do so. In fulfilling my role outlined  in DISP 3.6.1, its 
sufficient only for me to form a view on whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case.  I dont need to conclude a regulatory breach has occurred 
to find in a consumers favour. 
It also questions how I was able to reach  such  a conclusion where limited information 
has been provided and Ive also commented on various inconsistencies between the 
consumers statements during the complaints process and the documentation  that 
was provided/signed/reviewed by them at the time of their investment.
It provided copies of correspondence between  the regulator  at that time the 
Financial Services Authority (FSA)  -  and the Falcon Group from 2012 following its 
review of the sales process  that applied to the complaints Im considering.  This didnt 
identify any rule breaches and no action was taken.  FIFSs process hasnt changed 
since this date.
In explaining  the process  to the regulator, it was expressly stated that:
it relied on the category 2 exemption  to market its products to potential 
investors; and
its relationship with the IFA, including the fact that the IFA completed the 
suitability assessment and FIFS then relied  on this.
The regulator confirmed  that it accepted this explanation in its letter of 2 May 2012.  It 
would be irrational for me to take a view thats not consistent with the regulators 
investigation and analysis.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
the responses to my second provisional  decision, my conclusions havent changed.
As with my provisional decisions, I havent tried to address every single point raised here.  
Ive instead concentrated on the key issues that I think are central to the outcome. I also 
note FIFSs  representative has referred  to previous decisions issued by our service, but I 
hope it will appreciate  that I must consider and decide each case based on its own individual 
facts and circumstances.
After reviewing the case carefully, Im satisfied its now appropriate for me to issue my final 
decision and I dont  think its necessary or appropriate to issue  a further  provisional  decision. 
I addressed the key issues, including the application of the exemptions in COBS 4.12, in 
detail in my previous provisional decisions.  FIFS has had adequate opportunity to make  its 
submissions and I dont  think the responses received raise  any substantive new issues or 
lines of argument  that justify delaying the settlement of this complaint further.
The sales process
Ref: DRN48109099I thank FIFSs representative for its recent  clarification of the sales process  that led to Ms Js 
investment, although  even this explanation  appears  to include contradictions. Most  notably, 
it begins by saying the exemption FIFS relied on was different after the rules  were changed 
at the start of 2014,  yet it later says the same process has operated for over ten years. 
Either way, according to the latest submissions, including  the flowcharts outlining how sales  
should have been conducted at different times,  FIFS seems to be saying the three-stage  
process was intended to work as follows:
The first stage was the initial contact by FIE, who its said gave no advice  and 
discussed the benefits of investing in land generally with Ms J without  promoting  a 
particular investment. As part of this process, FIE also completed a fact find 
document that was passed to an IFA.
The second stage  involving an IFA, HTA in this case, that completed  a suitability 
assessment and provided advice on whether an investment was suitable for her. 
HTA also arranged the SIPP  and the transfer  of Ms Js pension benefits.
The final stage was the promotion  of particular land investments  by FIFS. In making 
this promotion,  FIFS relied on the suitability assessment completed by HTA, which it 
believed meant  the category 2 exemption  in COBS  4.12.4  applied.
But in a letter to our adjudicator dated  20 April 2015,  in connection  with Ms Js complaint 
about that firm, HTA offered a different explanation  of the sales  process when  it said:
It might be helpful for me to explain how the various companies operate. The sales  
team at Falcon International Estates purchases  lists of investors, whose 
characteristics indicate they that they might  be interested in purchasing plots of land,  
and builds a relationship with those investors  by telephone. The majority of 
individuals telephoned prove not to be interested in, or not appropriate for, investing 
in this type of scheme. Those who are qualified as potential candidates for the 
scheme are referred to an independent  financial adviser (this was my role in 2012). 
The IFA obtains a full fact find, qualifies the investor as an elective professional client  
following the procedures  set out in COBS 3.5.3 and those investors  who qualify as 
elective professionals are sent an Information  Memorandum. Investors  who do not 
qualify as elective  professionals are politely turned away.
The normal  procedure thereafter would be for the IFA to consider  the suitability of a 
land investment for the individual, having  regard to their circumstances, as recorded  
in the fact find. Many individuals who are interested in land investment choose to 
purchase the land through a SIPP, which is often established at the suggestion of the 
IFA by means of a transfer from a deferred personal  pension.  The attraction of the 
SIPP route is the substantial tax relief available for the investment. In Ms J's case, 
however, the deferred benefit  that Ms J wished to use to purchase land was in an 
occupational pension scheme.  Howard Taylor Associates  does not have permission 
to advise on pension  transfers. I, therefore, declined to advise Ms J about whether to 
effect the transfer, and she decided to proceed  with the transfer  on an execution  only 
basis.
. . . . 
Ref: DRN481090910. . . as mentioned above, Ms J was an elective professional  client. This means, under 
DISP 2.7.9(2) (a), that her complaint is outside  the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
As Ive outlined, accounts of the sales process  that should have  been  followed have been 
inconsistent and seem  to vary depending on who youre speaking  to and when youre 
speaking to them. But whatever the truth of the situation, Im looking at whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  So the nature of the process that should 
have been followed  is much less relevant and Im far more concerned with what actually did 
happen when  Ms Js investment was established.
Jurisdiction
In making her complaint, Ms J has said her investment shouldnt have been promoted  to her 
as she was an unsophisticated retail investor. As FIFS was responsible  for promoting  the 
investment, Im satisfied  the complaint has been  set up against  the correct  firm.
In terms of FIFSs role in what  took place, to summarise what  Ive said previously,  it carried  
out various regulated activities in connection  with Ms Js investment. These included 
establishing and operating a collective investment scheme, arranging  deals in investments, 
and agreeing to arrange  deals in investments. It was also involved in promoting its UCIS to 
Ms J. While promoting investments isnt a regulated activity in its own right,  Im satisfied it 
was essentially part of or ancillary  to the other activities Ive identified. For these reasons, I 
still believe  this is a complaint we can consider and FIFSs  representative  doesnt  seem to 
be disputing this.
Merits
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
the responses to my provisional decisions from FIFSs representative, my conclusions and 
the key reasons for them  havent changed.
For the reasons  I set out I my second provisional decision, it remains  my view that I have a 
duty to consider whether  a breach of specific rules or high-level principles has occurred in 
considering whats  fair and reasonable. And, if its material to the outcome,  to identify this in 
setting out the reasons for my decision as Im required to do under section 228 of FSMA.
correspondence with the FSA in 2012
With its most  recent  submissions, FIFSs  representative  has provided copies of 
correspondence between  FIE and the FSA in 2012. This shows  the FSA asked for details 
about FIEs introduction  of potential clients to an IFA and its apparently  being  argued that 
because no action was taken this represents  an endorsement of the overall sales process. 
Unfortunately, we havent been provided  with a copy of the FSAs response to the 
explanation provided by FIE in June 2012  so I cant say with certainty that this was 
accepted. But even if it was demonstrated that the FSA was satisfied with the explanation it 
received about  the sales process,  this wouldnt demonstrate that process was followed 
correctly when Ms J invested  and thats the issue I must address here. So I dont accept  that 
it would  be irrational for me to conclude Ms Js complaint  should  be upheld  on the grounds 
Ref: DRN481090911Ive previously outlined  simply  because of the correspondence between  FIE and the FSA in 
2012.
Incidentally, I note FIFSs representative has also said its business  model  has been 
discussed and agreed with our service. But its not provided any evidence  to demonstrate 
this and I find it unlikely  that any such agreement was obtained. The role of the ombudsman 
service is to consider  individual disputes  on their own merits and its never  been  our remit or 
practice to carry out reviews of a firms business model  or enter  into discussions about such  
issues.
the rules on promoting  UCIS
As Ive previously set out, there were rules covering the promotion of UCIS  investments at 
the time Ms J invested. The starting point in section 238 of FSMA was that:
An authorised person  must not communicate  an invitation or inducement to 
participate in a collective investment scheme.
But there were exceptions to this. COBS 4.12.1  said:
A firm may communicate  an invitation or inducement  to participate in an unregulated 
collective investment scheme  without breaching the restriction  on promotion 
in section 238 of the Act if the promotion  falls within an exemption in the table in (4), 
as explained further in the Notes.
The table referred to in COBS  4.12.4  set out various  types of promotion  to which this 
exemption could  apply.
which exemption is being relied on?
The most recent submissions from FIFSs  representative seem to confirm that it relied  on the 
category 2 exemption to promote its products to Ms J. I think its relevant to note at this point 
that by relying  on this exemption alone, FIFS would effectively be accepting  Ms J was a 
retail client  and not a professional client. But I remain conscious that the submissions from 
FIFSs representative have been  inconsistent throughout. Its previously told us that HTA 
assessed Ms J as an elective professional client, indicating it relied instead on the category 
7 exemption, and thats also what HTA told our adjudicator. 
The fact the parties  are so inconsistent on how sales were made doesnt inspire confidence 
that the intended process was followed correctly. But either way, the most important 
consideration in deciding  this particular case is whether FIFS was entitled to promote its 
investments to Ms J. As far as I can see, there  were  only two possible grounds on which  it 
could do that and these are covered  by the category 2 and category 7 exemptions in COBS 
4.12.4. So Ive considered  the evidence carefully  to assess  whether either  of these provided 
a justification for FIFSs actions in promoting its investment to Ms J. 
Ref: DRN481090912category 2 exemption
Under a category 2 exemption, COBS 4.12.4  essentially permits the promotion of UCIS  to 
A person:
(a)for whom the firm has taken reasonable steps to ensure  that investment in 
the collective investment scheme  is suitable;
To legitimately promote its products to Ms J under this exemption,  FIFS would have first 
needed (before  sending an information memorandum or making any other form of 
promotion) to take reasonable steps to satisfy  itself that those investments were suitable for 
her. Under the sales process as most  recently  described by FIFSs representative, HTA 
carried out a suitability assessment and FIFS relied on that to promote its products.
I dont think the wording of the exemption  indicates  FIFS was required to carry out a 
suitability assessment itself. And I take the point that the regulator allowed a firm to rely on 
information from another in certain circumstances.  So in principle,  it might  be reasonable for 
a firm promoting investments to rely on a suitability  assessment completed by another.  But 
the key question I need to address is whether  FIFS took reasonable steps to ensure its 
investment scheme  was suitable for Ms J before promoting it to her. The reasonable step it 
says it took was to rely on a suitability assessment made by HTA.
was FIFS entitled  to rely on HTAs suitability assessment?
The circumstances in which its appropriate for one firm to rely on information provided by 
another is addressed in COBS 2.4. In my view, the relevant sections are COBS 2.4.6 to 
2.4.8. At the time Ms J invested, these sections said:
Reliance on others:  other situations
COBS 2.4.6
(1) This rule applies if the rule on reliance on other investment firms (COBS 2.4.4 R) 
does not apply.
(2) A firm will be taken to be in compliance  with any rule in this sourcebook that 
requires it to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to 
rely on information provided to it in writing by another person.
COBS 2.4.7  
(1) In relying on COBS 2.4.6 R, a firm should take reasonable steps to establish that 
the other person providing written  information  is not connected with the firm and is 
competent to provide the information.
(2) Compliance with (1) may be relied upon  as tending to establish  compliance 
with COBS 2.4.6 R.
(3) Contravention of (1) may be relied upon as tending to establish contravention 
of COBS 2.4.6 R.
Ref: DRN481090913COBS 2.4.8
 
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance  with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a firm to rely 
on information provided to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or 
a professional firm, unless it is aware or ought  reasonably to be aware of any fact 
that would  give reasonable grounds  to question the accuracy of that information.
The guidance provided in COBS isnt exhaustive.  But for FIFS to rely on information 
provided by HTA that the investment products it was promoting to Ms J were suitable  for her, 
the expectation was that it was reasonable for it to do so. The examples of situations  where  
this would be reasonable, as set out in COBS 2.4.8, include those where  the information 
being relied upon was in writing, from an unconnected authorised firm, and where it had no 
reason to doubt its accuracy.
After reviewing the evidence carefully, I dont think the circumstances of this case  are 
consistent with any of those described  in COBS where it would have been reasonable for 
FIFS to rely on information  from HTA that an appropriate suitability assessment had been  
completed. In summary, I believe:
theres insufficient evidence to show  information  was provided in writing before the 
promotion took place;
FIFS was working  collaboratively  with HTA, so it wasnt an unconnected  firm; and
theres insufficient evidence to show  FIFS could  reasonably conclude a proper  
assessment of suitability  had taken place.
Ill now explain my reasons for reaching these conclusions in detail.
did HTA confirm its suitability assessment to FIFS in writing?
FIFSs representative says it obtained  written confirmation from HTA that its investment 
products were suitable for Ms J and it referred to a declaration on the investment application, 
which was signed  by HTA, and said:
l/We have reviewed this application for a land purchase and confirm  that the 
investment is suitable for the applicant's circumstances and attitude to risk.
In connection  with her complaint about HTA, we obtained a copy of Ms Js investment 
application. As FIFSs representative has said, this included a declaration  signed  by the IFA 
to confirm hed reviewed the application and that the investment was suitable for her 
circumstances and attitude to risk. But under  the sales process described, its not 
reasonable to think the application  and declaration were completed before  FIFS promoted 
the investment  as part of the third stage of the sale process Ive outlined above. So this 
declaration cant  have been  the written confirmation  of the suitability assessment FIFS relied  
upon.
In response to comments from FIFSs  representative, Im not saying  this means the 
suitability assessment took place after promotion  had begun. What I am saying is that this 
document doesnt demonstrate FIFS had written confirmation from HTA that it had 
completed a suitability assessment and concluded  the products it was promoting  were 
suitable for Ms J before it promoted them to her.
Ref: DRN481090914I previously said Ive reviewed the other evidence provided but havent  found anything else 
in writing from the time before  FIFS started  promoting its products to Ms J to inform  it that 
HTA had completed an appropriate  suitability assessment  that concluded the products to be 
promoted were suitable  for her. I note what  FIFSs  representative has said about  how the 
sales process was intended  to work.  But that doesnt prove it was followed correctly in this 
case. If FIFS had received written confirmation  from HTA that it was satisfied the products to 
be promoted to Ms J were  suitable  for her, I dont  think its unreasonable  to expect  it to be 
able to provide  this. And in the absence of this information, I think its open  to me to 
conclude this requirement in COBS 2.4.8  wasnt satisfied.
were HTA and FIFS unconnected?
Ive previously explained why, in accordance with GEN 2.2.1 to 2.2.2, the provisions in 
COBS 2.4.8 need to be interpreted  in light of their purpose. The term unconnected isnt 
defined in COBS  2.4.8, but I remain  satisfied  its appropriate to apply the natural meaning of 
the word as outlined  in GEN 2.2.6 to 2.2.12.
Legally, HTA and FIFS were different companies. But in practice  and in terms of this sales  
process at least,  its clear  that they werent  acting  independently. Instead, there was a high 
degree of interdependence and collaboration. Both firms were an integral part of a process 
that was agreed  between  them. And according to the submissions from FIFSs 
representatives, the nature of its ongoing  relationship with HTA was very close. Its said to 
have involved detailed  discussions  in weekly meetings  and regular telephone conversations, 
that sometimes took place on a daily basis.
Further, the nature of the relationship was such that the actions of HTA had a direct impact  
on the fortunes  of FIFS and vice-versa. If HTA didnt conclude the products FIFS offered 
were suitable for Ms J, FIFS wouldnt have been able to promote its investments to her and 
wouldnt have made any money. And if FIFS didnt promote its investments to Ms J, there  
wouldnt have been any reason for her to transfer  her pension to a SIPP  and HTA wouldnt 
have made  any money either. 
The main  purpose of the rules in COBS was to ensure protection for consumers. The rules  
on reliance in COBS 2.4 also provide for a situation  where one firm can rely on information 
from another. But this is subject to conditions and the purpose of those conditions  was to 
prevent consumers from the harm that could  result from one firm relying  on information from 
another when  its not appropriate for it to do so. In my view,  a good example  of where it 
wouldnt be appropriate for one firm to rely on information from another is when those two 
firms have a relationship thats based  on mutual  self-interest  and theres an incentive for one 
party to provide certain information to the other  even  if that isnt correct. So if the natural 
meaning of the term unconnected and the purposive  interpretation  of the rule requiring firms 
to be unconnected are applied, I dont think FIFS was entitled to rely on a suitability 
assessment completed  by HTA because it wasnt an unconnected  firm. 
In its most recent submissions, FIFSs  representative has referred to the notes at the foot of 
COBS 4.12.4 (version  as updated  on 1 January 2014). In particular, it says my interpretation 
of the term unconnected should be based  on Note 2, which says:
A company is 'connected' with another company if:
they are both in the same group; or
Ref: DRN481090915one company is entitled, either  alone or with another  company in the 
same group , to exercise or control  the exercise of a majority of the voting 
rights attributable to the share capital, which are exercisable in all 
circumstances at any general meeting of the other company or of its holding  
company.
FIFSs representative has quoted from COBS 4.12.4  as updated  on 1 January 2014,  so that 
clearly doesnt apply to this case. But the same note does appear  in the version  of COBS 
that applied when Ms J invested, although it was listed as Note 4 at that time.
Ive considered the content of this note carefully,  but it refers specifically to a different 
exemption (category 4) and relates to a company promoting its shares or debentures to 
employees. These are entirely different circumstances to those in this complaint and I dont 
think it follows that this definition should be applied to all circumstances where its necessary 
to determine the extent  of a connection between  two firms.
In terms of addressing  the issues raised  by this particular complaint, its not helpful that the 
term unconnected isnt specifically defined  in COBS 2.4.8. But in the circumstances, I still 
believe its appropriate to apply the natural meaning of the word  and to interpret COBS 2.4.8 
in light of its purpose as set out in GEN 2.2, which  after all is intended to describe how the 
Handbook should be interpreted. For this reason, it remains my view that FIFS wasnt  
entitled to rely on a suitability assessment completed by HTA because  it wasnt  an 
unconnected firm.
was FIFS aware, or should it have been  aware,  of reason to doubt the accuracy of 
information from HTA saying the product it was promoting was suitable for Ms J?
While its not been able to demonstrate this was provided in writing  as Ive already  
discussed, FIFSs representative says it promoted  to Ms J based on information  provided by 
HTA that it had completed a suitability assessment and concluded its products were suitable  
for her. And its correct  to say the issue I need to decide here is whether FIFS should  have 
had reason to doubt the accuracy of this information.
Im not suggesting FIFS should have carried out its own suitability assessment. But it should 
have understood  what  the advice process  looked like. The sales process involved 
completing a fact find and its letter of 8 February  2012 shows  FIE sent this document to Ms 
J. So it seems  that everybody understood the adviser needed to know  about her 
circumstances and requirements. FIFS should  also have known that an adviser would  
normally be expected  to provide a suitability letter and appropriate risk warnings about  any 
investment being  considered.
FIFS knew its products were covered by the general  prohibition on promoting  UCIS in FSMA 
and that the regulator  had taken the view they werent generally suitable for retail  investors.  
In the circumstances, and before it could reasonably be satisfied it was appropriate to 
promote to Ms J, I think its reasonable to expect that FIFS  should have satisfied itself HTA 
had followed  the correct process to assess suitability.  I dont think it would have been 
enough to simply accept HTAs word that this was the case.  Its representative has made  
much of the ongoing  due diligence it carried out, which  it says involved frequent  meetings 
and detailed discussions of individual investors, and that suggests  to me that FIFS 
understood this point.
Ref: DRN481090916If the advice  process  had been followed correctly, HTA should have been able to 
demonstrate this to FIFS,  by providing copies of a suitability  letter  and appropriate risk 
warnings for example.  But in this particular case, beyond sending  a fact find, I think  the 
evidence indicates  no appropriate suitability assessment took place. This is consistent with 
HTAs comments to our adjudicator in its letter of 20 April 2015 that appear to suggest  
suitability may not have  been considered on this occasion because HTA wasnt authorised  to 
advise on the pension transfer.
If FIFS had checked  that an adequate suitability assessment had been  completed and HTA 
had provided evidence to satisfy this enquiry, I think its reasonable to believe it would  have 
a record of this. But as it stands, neither FIFS nor HTA have been able to provide any 
documentary evidence  to show  the correct advice  process was followed in respect of the 
suitability of the investment. So I think its more likely than not that this never existed. 
Without sight of evidence that an appropriate suitability assessment had been completed,  I 
think FIFS had reasonable grounds  to doubt whether its investments were  in fact suitable  for 
Ms J and should have  concluded that it couldnt  promote  to her.
 
In respect of my discussion  in my provisional  decisions of the relevance of the Principles for 
Businesses (PRIN), I note FIFSs  representative  appears concerned  that I may be using the 
Principles to supplant  the rules. But I think its clear  from what Ive said above that, by 
reference to COBS alone, there  are compelling  reasons to conclude that FIFS shouldnt  
have promoted  its products  to Ms J. A consideration of the Principles only supports that view 
for the reasons Ive explained before.
Taking everything into account,  I think the evidence shows that it wasnt  reasonable for FIFS 
to believe an appropriate assessment had been completed and that its products were 
suitable for Ms J. So it follows  that it shouldnt have promoted to her. 
The overall transaction involved Mr J moving her pension fund, which  was held in a defined  
benefit scheme with the associated protections and guarantees, to an alternative 
unregulated, high-risk,  investment that presented  the possibility she could lose most or all of 
her money. This put her at significant risk of detriment. Shed also be without the protection  
offered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Ive explained  in detail in my provisional decisions why I dont think  this proposition was 
suitable for Ms J and FIFSs representative  doesnt appear to be disputing my conclusions  
on this point. So I think it follows  that if HTA had completed an appropriate  suitability 
assessment, it should have reached  the same conclusion. I believe this shows  that by failing 
to take reasonable steps to ensure  an adequate suitability assessment had been carried out, 
FIFS directly contributed to the loss shes suffered.
category 7 exemption
Under a category 7 exemption, COBS 4.12.4  permits the promotion of UCIS  to:
 
An eligible  counterparty  or a professional client.
For Ms J to have been appropriately considered and treated as an elective  professional 
client, all three of the criteria set out in COBS 3.5.3 would have needed to be satisfied. This 
said:
Ref: DRN481090917Elective professional clients
A firm may treat a client other than a local public authority or municipality as 
an elective professional client if it complies with (1) and (3) and, where applicable, 
(2):
(1)the firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience  and 
knowledge of the client that gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature 
of the transactions or services envisaged, that the client is capable of making  
his own investment decisions and understanding the risks involved (the 
"qualitative test");
(2)in relation to MiFID or equivalent third country  business in the course of that 
assessment, at least two of the following criteria are satisfied:
(a) the client has carried out transactions, in significant size, on the relevant 
market at an average frequency of 10 per quarter over the previous four 
quarters;
(b) the size of the client's financial instrument portfolio, defined as including  
cash deposits and financial  instruments, exceeds EUR 500,000;
(c) the client works or has worked  in the financial sector for at least  one year in 
a professional position, which requires  knowledge  of the transactions  or 
services envisaged;
(the "quantitative test"); and
(3)the following  procedure is followed:
(a) the client must state in writing to the firm that it wishes to be treated as 
a professional client either generally  or in respect  of a particular service  or 
transaction or type of transaction or product;
(b) the firm must give the client  a clear written warning of the protections and 
investor compensation rights the client  may lose; and
(c)  the client must state in writing, in a separate document from the contract, 
that it is aware of the consequences of losing such protections.
was FIFS entitled  to rely on the category 7 exemption?
The category 7 exemption specifically says a firm could treat an investor as an elective 
professional client  if it complied with the relevant requirements. My interpretation of this is 
that the firm involved  in promoting UCIS needed to follow the appropriate steps itself. I dont 
think the rules allowed  FIFS  to delegate its regulatory responsibilities to another  party,  HTA 
for example. I believe this interpretation is illustrated in the context of the third point in COBS  
3.5.3. This says a client must state in writing to the firm  which,  when  read in the context of 
the rest of the rule, I think can only reasonably be interpreted as referring  to the firm 
promoting UCIS  that he/she wants to be treated  as a professional client.  I think the same  
could be said of the requirements  for the firm  again, the firm promoting the UCIS  to 
Ref: DRN481090918provide a clear  written  warning of the protections being given up and to obtain  confirmation 
of the clients  understanding of this.
In this particular  case, if an assessment of Ms J as an elective professional  client was 
completed, the relevant  submissions are consistent  that this would have been completed by 
HTA. Theres been no suggestion from anyone involved in this complaint (and theres no 
evidence to support  any such suggestion  either) that FIFS itself took the steps required  in 
COBS 3.5.3. As a result, I dont  think FIFS would have  been entitled to treat Ms J as a 
professional client  or to promote its investments to her on that basis.
Further, I think the available evidence indicates Ms J wouldnt have met the criteria to be 
considered an elective professional client if FIFS had completed a valid assessment as it 
should have. 
Ms J disputes the accuracy of most of what was recorded about his circumstances at the 
time in the sales documentation. While  this records she had an investment portfolio and 
some experience in this area, she says she didnt  have  any assets aside from her home and 
pension. I find Ms Js recollection of her circumstances  compelling. But even if the contents 
of the documentation are accepted as showing she satisfied part (b) of the quantitative test, 
she doesnt appear to have  satisfied either  of the other criteria. Ive seen no suggestion that 
shed carried out relevant  transactions  at the required frequency or that she worked  or had 
worked in a relevant professional position.
So I think its clear that any assessment of Ms Js status should have led FIFS to conclude it 
couldnt promote  its UCIS  products to her.
conclusions
As Ive said above,  the key consideration in this case  is whether FIFS was entitled to 
promote the investment to Ms J. There were  only two grounds on which promotion could 
possibly be justified, the category 2 and category 7 exemptions in COBS  4.12.4. For the 
reasons Ive explained, it remains my view that the requirements for reliance  on these 
exemptions werent met and FIFS therefore  wasnt entitled to promote to Ms J. By failing to 
act in accordance  with the rules covering the promotion of UCIS, and designed for the 
protection of consumers,  I think I can only reasonably conclude FIFS didnt treat Ms J fairly.  
This is the reason Im upholding her complaint.
Putting Things  Right
The principal  aim of any award I make is to return Ms J to the position  shed  be in if FIFS 
hadnt promoted its UCIS to her when it shouldnt  have.  I dont  think its likely that Ms J 
would have made this investment off her own back and if FIFS hadnt promoted it to her, Im 
satisfied it wouldnt have  taken place. Further, I dont think she would have transferred her 
pension benefits  to the SIPP if she hadnt been  subject to this sales process as the only 
reason for doing so was to facilitate the use of the investment.
As Ive said,  Im aware FIFS wasnt the only regulated firm involved in the events that led to 
Ms J transferring her pension benefits and investing in UCIS.  But I think  any loss shes 
suffered as a result  wouldnt have happened  if FIFS had acted as it should and that its 
therefore appropriate to hold it responsible for any loss. Although Im conscious  Ms J has 
received some compensation following a separate complaint  about  HTA and this needs to 
be taken account  in any award  I make here.  Ive explained below how this can be done.
Ref: DRN481090919Ms J has also told us that HTA took ownership  of the land investment and it's been removed 
from the SIPP. Consequently, it appears  there  are no illiquid investments in the SIPP and 
theres nothing preventing  her closing it if she wants.
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for FIFS to put Ms J, as far as possible, into the 
position she would now be in if it hadnt  promoted  investments to her when it shouldnt  have. 
I consider she would have remained in the occupational scheme.  FIFS must  therefore 
undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review  guidance as 
updated by the Financial  Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9:  Guidance for firms 
on how  to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
The FCA has announced it intends  this month  to update the inflation  assumptions  used  in this 
guidance. This could  materially  affect the amount of compensation due. FIFS must therefore  
take into account any amendments to the regulators Finalised  Guidance  FG 17/9.
The calculation should be carried  out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Ms Js acceptance  of the decision. If this is completed 
before publication of the FCAs intended  amendments to the  guidance , FIFS must re-run the 
calculation within a month of the amended guidance  being published  ensuring that any 
shortfall this shows in the original calculation is promptly  made  up to Ms J. FIFS need only 
re-run the calculation once, to take account  of amendments  currently  planned by the FCA. 
FIFS does not subsequently need to recalculate  following any further amendments the 
regulator might later make).
Alternatively, FIFS may wait until publication of the FCAs  amended Finalised Guidance 
(expected in March 2021) before calculating and paying the compensation due to Ms J.
FIFS must contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain Ms Js 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Ms Js SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation (less the amount of 
compensation already received from HTA in respect of her complaint about its actions) 
should if possible be paid into Ms Js pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect  
of charges and any available  tax relief. The compensation shouldnt  be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Ms J within  90-days of the date FIFS 
receives notification  of her acceptance  of my final decision. Further  interest must be added  
Ref: DRN481090920to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90-days, that it takes FIFS to pay 
Ms J.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean the actual  time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above   and so any period of 
time where  the only outstanding item required to undertake  the calculation  is data from DWP  
may be added  to the 90-day period in which  interest wont apply.
additional compensation
I think the problems  Ms J has experienced with her pension  arrangements as a result of 
FIFS actions have caused her considerable unnecessary trouble and upset over a 
prolonged period and that she should  be compensated for that. The precise impact of this 
situation on Ms J, and therefore  the amount to award, is difficult  to assess. But in the 
circumstances, I think  a substantial payment of £500 is fair and reasonable. FIFS would 
need to pay this amount direct to Ms J (not into her pension) in addition to any compensation 
calculated using the method outlined above.
compensation limits
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs  that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require FIFS to pay Ms J the compensation amount as 
set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require FIFS to 
pay Ms J any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds  £150,000, I only require FIFS to pay Ms J 
any interest as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount  exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
FIFS pays Ms J the balance. I additionally recommend  any interest calculated as set out 
above on this balance to be paid to Ms J.
If Ms J accepts  my decision,  the money award would be binding  on FIFS. My 
recommendation wouldnt be binding on FIFS. Further, its unlikely that Ms J could accept 
my decision  and go to court to ask for the balance.  Ms J may want  to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Ref: DRN481090921My Final  Decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Ms J accepts  my decision,  Falcon  International Financial Services  Ltd must pay her 
compensation using the method set out above. It should provide her with details of its 
calculations in a clear and understandable format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2021.
 
Jim Biles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN481090922Extract from second provisional decision:
My Provisional Findings
Ive carefully read all submissions provided in connection with this complaint. But as with my first 
provisional decision,  I havent tried to address every single point raised  here. Ive instead 
concentrated on what I think  are the key issues that are central to the outcome. I also note FIFSs 
representative has referred  to previous decision issued by our service, but I hope it will appreciate 
that I must decide each case based  on its own individual facts and circumstances.
It remains my understanding that the transaction that led to the unregulated  investment was a three-
stage process  involving  three  different businesses.
The first stage was the initial contact by FIE, who gave  no advice and discussed the benefits  
of investing in land generally without promoting a particular investment. As part of this 
process, FIE also completed a fact find document that was passed  to HTA.
The second stage  involving an IFA, HTA, although  the explanation  of its role hasnt been  
consistent. At times, its been  suggested  HTAs role was to determine whether Ms J was a 
retail or professional  client.  At other times, its been suggested HTAs  role was to provide  
advice on whether  an investment was suitable for her or not. HTA also arranged the SIPP and 
the transfer of Ms Js pension benefits.
The final stage was the promotion of particular  land investments by FIFS. 
In respect of each of these stages:
Stage 1  FIE was a separate  company to FIFS. Although  it later became an appointed 
representative of FIFS, this wasnt  until 24 August 2012  after Ms Js pension benefits  were  
transferred and her investment finalised. Prior to this date, FIE appears to have been an 
unregulated business  and that means any complaint about its actions falls outside our 
jurisdiction and I have no power to investigate or make an award.
Stage 2  HTA was a regulated business in its own right and its actions have already been 
considered in a separate complaint.  Its not appropriate for me to comment  on HTAs  actions 
in this decision, except where this is relevant  to the outcome of the complaint about FIFS.
Stage 3  FIFS was a regulated business and its the actions  of this business after HTA had 
carried out its part of the overall transaction that Im considering in this decision.
Jurisdiction
In making her complaint,  Ms J has said her investment shouldnt have been promoted to her as she 
was an unsophisticated  retail investor. As FIFS  was responsible  for promoting  the investment, Im 
satisfied the complaint has been set up against the correct firm.
In terms of FIFSs role in what took place, to summarise what Ive said previously, it carried out 
various regulated activities in connection with Ms Js investment. These included establishing  and 
operating a collective investment scheme, arranging deals in investments, and agreeing to arrange  
deals in investments. It was also involved in promoting its UCIS to Ms J. While promoting investments 
isnt a regulated activity in its own right, Im satisfied it was essentially part of or ancillary to the other 
activities Ive identified.  For these  reasons, I still believe this is a complaint we can consider and FIFS 
doesnt seem  to be disputing this.
Ref: DRN481090923Merits
the rules on promoting UCIS
As Ive previously set out, there were rules  covering  the promotion of UCIS investments at the time 
Ms J invested.  The starting point in section 238 of FSMA was that:
An authorised person must  not communicate an invitation or inducement to participate in a 
collective investment  scheme.
But there were exceptions  to this. COBS 4.12.1 said:
A firm may communicate  an invitation or inducement  to participate in an unregulated 
collective investment  scheme  without  breaching  the restriction on promotion in section 238 of 
the Act if the promotion falls within an exemption in the table in (4), as explained  further in the 
Notes.
The table referred to in COBS 4.12.4  set out various types  of promotion to which this exemption could 
apply.
which exemption is being  relied  on?
A category  7 exemption relates to elective  professional clients. I based my previous findings on 
whether this particular exemption applied because FIFS  provided a letter  from its compliance 
consultant dated 7 May 2017, which  Ive quoted above in full. This said the process was for FIE to 
identify potential  investors and then:
An IFA then classifies such individuals,  using the categorisation  in COBS 3.5.3,  either  as 
elective professional  clients or as retail  clients;
Elective professional  clients  (but not retail clients) can then be sent an Information 
Memorandum as permitted under COBS  4.12.4;
Subsequently, the IFA assesses the suitability  of an investment in land for the client on the 
basis of the full fact find.
I am satisfied  that no investor  would  be provided  with an Information Memorandum unless 
and until the investor had been categorised as an elective professional  client.
I thought it was reasonable to assume that FIFSs compliance consultant understood how its process 
worked. The covering email from FIFSs representative dated 12 May 2017  also referred to the 
category 7 exemption to justify promoting UCIS to Ms J. While earlier correspondence did mention  a 
suitability assessment, it seemed clear  from that received in May 2017 that FIFS was relying on the 
category 7 exemption only.
FIFSs compliance consultant did mention a suitability  assessment but I think  its use of the word 
subsequently is potentially relevant. This could be interpreted to mean the only assessment carried  
out before the investor information  memorandum was sent was that of whether  Ms J was a 
professional or retail  client. The suitability  assessment was said to have been carried out 
subsequently, which appears to suggest it was done after the information memorandum had been 
sent.
I think  its clear that sending  Ms J a copy of the information memorandum was a financial promotion, 
which the FCA defines simply as an invitation or inducement to engage  in investment activity  . . . that 
is communicated in the course of business. My interpretation of the rules is that no promotion  should  
have been made until FIFS had established  one of the exemptions set out in COBS 4.12 applied. So, 
any suitability assessment  after promotion had begun was too late and FIFS  wouldnt be able to rely 
on the category 2 exemption in any event.
Ref: DRN481090924From the response to my provisional decision, it now appears  FIFSs representative is saying  the 
description of the process provided in May 2017 isnt correct and a suitability assessment was 
completed before  any promotion  took place.  So FIFS  is now relying on the category 2 exemption and 
Ive reconsidered the evidence to see if this affects  the outcome. I think  its relevant to note at this 
point that by relying on this exemption alone,  FIFS  would  effectively be accepting Ms J was a retail  
client and not a professional client.
category 2 exemption
Under a category 2 exemption, COBS 4.12.4 essentially  permits the promotion  of UCIS to 
A person :
(b)for whom the firm has taken reasonable steps to ensure that investment in the collective 
investment scheme is suitable; and
(c)who is an 'established' or 'newly accepted'  client of the firm or of a person in the 
same group  as the firm (see Notes  2 & 3).
To legitimately promote its products to Ms J under this exemption, FIFS would have  first needed 
(before sending  an information  memorandum or making  any other form of promotion) to take 
reasonable steps  to satisfy itself that those investments  were suitable for her. Under the process  as 
most recently  described  by FIFSs representative, HTA carried out a suitability assessment and FIFS  
relied on that to promote  its products.
 
In my view,  the wording  of the category  2 exemption is less clear than category 7 in saying the firm 
promoting the investment must make  the necessary assessment itself. And, in principle,  it might be 
reasonable to rely on a qualified IFA to assess suitability.  So the question then becomes whether it 
was reasonable for FIFS to rely on HTAs suitability assessment in this case.
was FIFS entitled to rely on HTAs suitability  assessment?
The circumstances in which its appropriate  for one firm to rely on information provided by another is 
addressed in COBS 2.4. In my view, the relevant sections are COBS 2.4.6 to 2.4.8.  I dont think 
COBS 2.4.4 applies  as that specifically refers to a firm receiving an instruction  from another, which 
wasnt the situation here.  At the time Ms J invested, the rules said:
Reliance on others: other situations
COBS 2.4.6
(1) This rule applies if the rule on reliance on other investment firms (COBS 2.4.4 R) does not 
apply.
(2) A firm will be taken to be in compliance with any rule in this sourcebook that requires it to 
obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on information  
provided to it in writing  by another person.
COBS 2.4.7 
(1) In relying on COBS 2.4.6 R, a firm should take reasonable steps to establish  that the 
other person providing written information is not connected with the firm and is competent to 
provide the information.
(2) Compliance with (1) may be relied  upon as tending to establish compliance with COBS 
2.4.6 R.
Ref: DRN481090925(3) Contravention of (1) may be relied upon as tending to establish contravention  of COBS 
2.4.6 R.
COBS 2.4.8
 
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a firm to rely on 
information provided  to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or a professional  
firm, unless it is aware or ought reasonably to be aware  of any fact that would give 
reasonable grounds  to question  the accuracy of that information.
So, for FIFS to rely on information  provided by HTA that the investment products it was promoting  to 
Ms J were  suitable for her, the rules required  it was reasonable for it to do so. Under COBS 2.4.8,  it 
was reasonable for FIFS to rely on information provided  that was:
in writing;
from by an unconnected  authorised firm; and
unless it was aware, or should have  been  aware, of something that cast doubt on its 
accuracy. 
did HTA confirm  its suitability assessment to FIFS in writing?
FIFSs representative says it obtained written confirmation from HTA that its investment products were  
suitable for Ms J and it referred to a declaration  on the investment application, which was signed  by 
HTA, and said:
l/We have  reviewed this application for a land purchase and confirm that the investment is 
suitable for the applicant's  circumstances and attitude to risk.
In connection with her complaint about HTA, we obtained a copy of Ms Js investment application. As 
FIFSs representative has said, this included  a declaration signed by the IFA to confirm  hed reviewed  
the application and that the investment was suitable for her circumstances and attitude to risk. But I 
think its relevant  to note that the application was presumably completed after the investment  had 
been promoted so it doesnt necessarily demonstrate a suitability assessment was completed before 
promotion took place as required under the rules.  
Ive reviewed the other evidence  provided,  but I havent found  anything  else in writing  from HTA to 
inform FIFS that it had completed an appropriate  assessment that concluded the products to be 
promoted were suitable  for Ms J before  any promotion took place . So as things currently stand,  its 
not clear this requirement was met.
were HTA and FIFS unconnected?
In the General Provisions (GEN) section  of the FCA Handbook, Gen 2.2 Interpreting  the Handbook  
said:
Purposive interpretation
GEN 2.2.1 
Every provision in the Handbook must  be interpreted  in the light of its purpose.
GEN 2.2.2
The purpose  of any provision in the Handbook is to be gathered first and foremost from the 
text of the provision in question and its context among other  relevant provisions. 
The guidance given on the purpose of a provision  is intended  as an explanation to assist 
readers of the Handbook . As such, guidance  may assist the reader in assessing the purpose 
of the provision, but it should  not be taken as a complete or definitive explanation of a 
provision's purpose.
Ref: DRN481090926. . . .
Use of defined  expressions
GEN 2.2.6 
Expressions with defined meanings appear in italics  in the Handbook.
. . . .
GEN 2.2.9 
Unless the context otherwise requires,  where italics have not been used,  an expression  bears  
its natural meaning (subject to the Interpretation  Act 1978;  see GEN  2.2.11 R to GEN  2.2.12 
G).
. . . .
GEN 2.2.11 
The Interpretation Act 1978  applies to the Handbook .
GEN 2.2.12 
The application of the Interpretation Act 1978 to the Handbook has the effect, in particular, 
that:
(1) expressions in the Handbook used in the Act have the meanings which  they bear 
in the Act, unless the contrary  intention appears;
In COBS 2.4.8, the term unconnected doesnt appear in italics so isnt defined. In accordance with 
GEN 2.2.9,  the natural  meaning of the word needs to be applied and I cant  see anything in the 
Interpretation Act that would inform otherwise on this point.
Legally, HTA and FIFS were  different  companies. But in practice, it seems clear to me they were  
connected at least in terms of this venture. Both firms  were  an integral part of a sales process that 
was agreed between them.  And according to the most recent submissions from FIFSs  
representatives, the nature  of its ongoing relationship  with HTA appears to have been very close.  Its 
said to have  involved detailed discussions  in weekly  meetings and regular  telephone conversations, 
that sometimes took place on a daily basis.
Further, the nature of the relationship was such that the actions of HTA had a direct impact on the 
fortunes of FIFS and vice-versa. If HTA didnt  conclude the products FIFS offered  were  suitable for 
Ms J, FIFS  wouldnt have  been able to promote its investments to her and wouldnt have made  any 
money. And if FIFS didnt promote its investments to Ms J, there wouldnt have been any reason  for 
her to transfer her pension to a SIPP and HTA wouldnt  have made any money  either. 
The overarching purpose of the rules  on reliance in COBS  2.4 was to protect consumers from 
detriment caused by a business relying on inaccurate information from a third party. When the 
regulator set out that it was only reasonable  for a firm to rely on information from another 
unconnected firm, it seems to me that it was trying to prevent  the harm that could result from a 
relationship based on mutual self-interest for the two firms involved  where there was an incentive  for 
one party to provide certain information to the other even if that wasnt correct. So if the natural 
meaning of the term unconnected and the purposive interpretation of the rule requiring  firms to be 
unconnected are applied, I dont think FIFS was entitled to rely on a suitability assessment completed 
by HTA because  it wasnt an unconnected firm. 
was FIFS aware, or should  it have been aware, of reason  to doubt  the accuracy of information  from 
HTA saying UCIS  were  suitable for Ms J?
Ref: DRN481090927FIFSs representative also says there was no reason for FIFS to doubt  the accuracy of the information 
it received from HTA. This is because it carried out ongoing due diligence and had a process that 
meant there was regular contact with HTA where each potential investor  and the suitability 
assessments it was carrying out were discussed  in detail.
But I think it can also reasonably be argued that the nature of the sales process, which created a 
situation where  it knew HTA stood  to benefit by concluding UCIS were  suitable for Ms J whether  that 
was true or not, should have given FIFS  reason to doubt whether any written confirmation it received 
was accurate. Given the general  prohibition in FSMA and the stance of the regulator that UCIS 
werent generally suitable for retail investors, and in view of the fact it now seems to accept  Ms J 
wasnt a professional investor, FIFS  should have known it was more  likely  an IFA making  a fully 
independent assessment, and with nothing to gain from the outcome, would conclude  its products 
werent suitable.  
This notwithstanding, its not clear at this stage what documentation FIFS saw as part of the detailed 
discussions its representative says would have taken place about Ms Js situation before it promoted 
its products to her. But Ive reviewed the other evidence that could relate to HTAs  suitability 
assessment to see whether  this should have reassured FIFS about the accuracy of any written 
confirmation it may have received to confirm their suitability or whether  it should have  given it reason 
to doubt this.
In connection with her complaint about that firm, HTA provided a copy of a fact find that appears to 
have been signed by Ms J in March  2012. This records she was in her fifties, single  with no 
dependants and wasnt working at the time. Her only income is recorded as investment income of 
£10,000. It was also recorded that she owned three properties, only one of which had a small  
mortgage, a share in a family property, savings, including  money  on deposit, ISAS and various shares  
worth between £275,000 and £345,000, and investments in gold and antiques worth between  £15,000 
and £30,000. No details  of any pensions  other than her occupational scheme that was transferred to 
her SIPP were recorded.
Ms J disputes  the accuracy of the information recorded in the fact find, particularly the property and 
investments she was recorded as owning. She says she only signed  the last page of the fact find and 
didnt see the rest of the contents, which  she says were inaccurately recorded by HTA.  She says she 
didnt own the various properties and investments that were attributed to her and that she had no 
assets aside from her home, which  was mortgaged, and her pension that was transferred to the SIPP.  
She also says her only income was Employment and Support Allowance (ESA)  benefit.
To support  what shes  said about  her income, Ms J has provided a copy  of a certificate of pay and 
taxable benefit for the year to April 2014  that appears to show  she received ESA benefit of £5,542 
and nothing  else. Ive asked the investigator to forward a copy of this document  to FIFS in case it 
hasnt seen it before. Given the inherent  difficulty in proving a negative, its unrealistic to expect  Ms J 
to demonstrate  she didnt own the properties and investments listed.  But on balance,  and in view of 
the information she has provided in connection with her income, I find it unlikely that she also owned 
the array of assets recorded  in the fact find and I think her recollections on this point are compelling.
The fact find also recorded Ms Js attitude to investment risk as high on the following  scale:
Low Below average Average Above average High risk Very high risk
High risk was defined as:
I am willing to accept a high level of risk in relation to my portfolio.  I realise that such  of 
achieving an approach may include investments  in specialist funds  and products whose 
performance may be highly volatile.
Above where Ms J signed the fact find, the following statement also appeared:
Ref: DRN481090928In the event  of land purchases, l/we understand that certain risk investments, especially 
investments in land, may not be readily  realisable as there  may not be a ready market for the 
sale of such investments and that access  to reliable data for valuing such investments may be 
restricted.
The investment FIFS promoted to Ms J wasnt held in a well-diversified selection of equities  and other 
assets. It invested solely in plots of land at a single site. Further, it was an unregulated investment 
that meant she couldnt  fall back on the protection offered by the Financial Services  Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS) if things went wrong. This was a high-risk, specialised  investment of the type the 
industry regulator had said shouldnt  be promoted to unsophisticated retail  investors.
If FIFS saw the information  contained in the fact find about Ms Js circumstances, I think it should 
have given it reason to doubt any assurance from HTA that its products  were likely to be suitable  for 
her. Even  if its accepted that FIFS was entitled  to believe she owned the assets attributed to her, it 
was clear from the fact find that her income was very low and depended on the performance of the 
assets she was said to own.  Its also not clear  how she expected  to be able to survive on that level of 
income without cashing  in her assets. 
The money  Ms J invested  represented all of her pension  and a significant portion  of the total assets 
she was said to own.  Without further clarification  of her situation, I think the fact she appeared  to have 
no other source of income than that from the investments should  have led to questions about her 
capacity for capital loss and whether she was really willing to accept a high degree of risk with the 
money she was investing.  
Its also not clear  that FIFS should have  taken any reassurance from the attitude to risk statement on 
the fact find. According to the process as described by its representative, this document  was 
completed before  it was sent to HTA so it hadnt been completed by a qualified IFA and I dont think it 
was appropriate for FIFS to rely on it in those circumstances. Even if the assessment had been 
completed by HTA, I dont  think the risk table and definition above told Ms J shed end up investing in 
products where she could  lose all of her capital and shed have  no FSCS protection  because  the 
investment FIFS planned to promote to her was unregulated. 
Similarly, I think the statement at the foot of the fact find above where  Ms J signed simply  explained 
her investment may not be readily realisable  and that access to reliable data for valuations may be 
restricted. Again,  it didnt  tell her there was a chance she could lose all of her money  and that shed 
have no FSCS protection.
HTAs file also contained  an Investor Profile Questionnaire, which appears to record Ms Js answers 
to various questions about  her attitude  to investment risk and concluded this could  be described as 
adventurous on the following scale:
Very cautious
Cautious Moderately cautious
Balanced Moderately adventurous
Adventurous Very adventurous
Ms J says she didnt see this document and that she didnt give the answers  that were recorded. 
While I cant  comment  with any certainty on whether she saw it, I think  its relevant  to note that it isnt 
signed and theres no evidence to confirm  she did. If FIFS  saw this document as part of its detailed  
discussions with HTA about Ms J and its suitability assessment,  I dont think it should have taken  any 
particular reassurance from it. As Ive already  identified, I think there were  genuine reasons  for 
doubting it was suitable  for Ms J to invest all of her pension assets in the investments FIFS  offered 
based on a consideration  of her circumstances at the time even if it is assumed they were  recorded 
correctly. 
Even if Im wrong to say HTA and FIFS  werent unconnected as envisaged in COBS 2.4.8,  and if FIFS 
could also show it received written confirmation from HTA that its products were suitable for Ms J, I 
think the information  on which HTAs suitability assessment was based  should have given  it 
reasonable grounds  to question  the accuracy of that assessment.
Ref: DRN481090929the regulatory Principles
FIFSs representative has objected to my reference to the regulatory Principles, but Im conscious the 
COBS rules arent entirely prescriptive and their application to a given situation relies on a judgement 
about what was reasonable. Its here that I think the Principles are particularly  relevant.
The Principles, which are set out in the FCAs handbook, were a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G).  Principles 2, 3 and 6 
said:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct  its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively,  with adequate  risk management systems
Principle 6  Clients  interests   A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its clients and 
treat them fairly.
The Principles are an over-arching set of requirements  that must  be complied at all times and this 
makes them  entirely relevant to the application of the rules in COBS. This view is supported by the 
relevant case  law. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] EWHC 999 
(Admin) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific rules  
are added. The Principles  always have to be complied with. The Specific  rules  do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They  are but specific applications of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion  that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles  is inappropriate.  It cannot  be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules. 
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory  duty for the Ombudsman to reach  a 
view on a case  without taking the Principles into account  in deciding what  would  be fair and 
reasonable and what redress to afford.  Even if no Principles had been  produced by the FSA, 
the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular  statutory  duty without having  regard to the sort 
of high level Principles which  find expression  in the Principles, whoever formulated them.  
They are of the essence  of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about their 
relationship to specific rules.
Subsequently Jacobs J at paragraph 104 in R (Berkeley Burke SIPP  Administration Ltd) v Financial 
Ombudsman Service  having set out some paragraphs  of the British  Banking Association judgment, 
including paragraph  162 set out above, said;
These passages explain  the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA correctly  
submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to cater  for new or 
unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they are, and indeed were  
always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles-based regulation  
described by Ouseley J. was precisely  not to attempt to formulate a code covering all possible 
circumstances, but instead to impose  general  duties such as those  set out in Principles 2 and 
6.
So, the Principles have a wide application,  and I need to have regard to them  when deciding  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN481090930The overall  transaction  promoted to Ms J involved  investing her pension fund,  which was held in a 
defined benefit scheme with the associated protections and guarantees,  to an alternative  unregulated, 
high-risk, investment that presented the possibility she could lose most or all of her money, thereby 
putting her at significant risk of detriment. Shed also be without  the protection  offered  by the FSCS. In 
the circumstances, I dont  think it was consistent with the Principles for FIFS  to simply  accept written 
confirmation from HTA (if it can in fact be demonstrated  this was obtained)  that the investments it was 
promoting were suitable  for her. The description  of the ongoing due diligence by FIFSs 
representative, that involved  various meetings and detailed discussions of individual investors, 
indicates to me that it understood  this point. 
If FIFS had held detailed discussions with HTA about Ms J and its suitability assessment,  I think  a 
review of the documentation and her circumstances  would have made it apparent that UCIS werent 
likely to be suitable for her. In my view,  the fact FIFS then went on to promote its investments anyway  
shows it either didnt discuss Ms Js situation with HTA in detail and simply  relied on its word, or that it 
did discuss  her situation  with HTA - when it should have identified its products werent suitable - and 
went on to promote  to her anyway.
Whichever of these possibilities took place, I think its clear  FIFS acted inappropriately.  Promoting 
investments to Ms J when it had reason  to doubt they were suitable for her is a clear  breach of the 
regulators rules. On the other hand, failure to obtain sufficient evidence to confirm suitability before  
promoting its products was in my view contrary to the relevant rules and regulatory  Principles 
requiring FIFS to act with appropriate care and diligence,  to organise  and control  its affairs 
responsibly and to have due regard to her interests. Either way, I dont think  it treated Ms J fairly.
other exemptions in COBS 4.12
I hope FIFS  is now clear which of the exemptions in COBS 4.12 it was relying  on when it decided to 
promote its products to Ms J. But in the event it has further thoughts on this, Id like to clarify that I still 
dont think a category 7 exemption could have applied  for the reasons  set out in my first provisional  
decision. The latest submissions from FIFSs  representative havent given me any reason to question  
that view.
Ive also reviewed the other exemptions listed in COBS  4.12.4 and the only other I can see that could 
conceivably apply here is category 8, which  allowed promotion of UCIS to:
A person :
(1)in relation to whom  the firm has undertaken an adequate assessment of his expertise, 
experience and knowledge and that assessment  gives reasonable  assurance, in light of 
the nature of the transactions or services envisaged, that the person is capable  of making 
his own investment  decisions and understanding the risks involved;
(2)to whom the firm has given a clear  written warning that this will enable the firm to 
promote unregulated collective  investment schemes to the client;  and
(3)who has stated in writing,  in a document separate from the contract, that he is aware of 
the fact the firm can promote certain unregulated  collective investment schemes to him.
In line with my comments on the category 7 exemption, I think the wording of the rule means the 
steps described had to be taken by the firm doing the promoting, so FIFS, before  promoting UCIS.  
Theres nothing in the description of the process by FIFSs representative or the other evidence  
provided that I believe shows FIFS carried out an assessment of Ms Js expertise, experience  and 
knowledge, that it gave the necessary written warning, or that it obtained  a separate  statement from 
her. So again, that means FIFS  couldnt rely on this exclusion to promote UCIS to her.
Ref: DRN481090931other issues:
In response to some  of the other  issues  raised  by FIFSs  representative:
It seems FIFSs representative may have misunderstood my role. The Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000  (FSMA),  under which  the Financial  Ombudsman  Service was established,  
says in section 228:
A complaint  is to be determined  by reference to what is, in the opinion of the 
ombudsman, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case.
The same  section of FSMA also says:
When the ombudsman has determined a complaint he must give a written statement 
of his determination  to the respondent and to the complainant.
The statement must
(a)give the ombudsmans  reasons for his determination;
To discharge these responsibilities  effectively, a key consideration in assessing  any case  
must be whether the respondent firm has treated  the consumer making the complaint fairly. I 
think it would be very difficult to determine that without reference  to the rules  and regulatory 
Principles the firm is expected to adhere to. FIFSs representative seems  to accept  this when 
it refers to DISP  3.6.4,  which says:
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, 
the Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
I have no power to fine or punish a firm for a breach of any of the above and maybe thats 
what FIFSs representative is thinking of when it says considering such  issues are outside my 
remit. But its absolutely appropriate for me to consider whether a breach  has occurred and, if 
its material to the outcome, to identify this in setting out the reasons  for my decision as Im 
required to do under section  228 of FSMA.
I didnt  question  Ms Js recollections in the way thats been  suggested. The comments quoted 
by FIFSs  representative are from the background section of my provisional decision  where I 
set out a summary of the arguments it had put forward. I didnt  say I agreed with its 
comments.
For the record, I dont particularly  agree  that it has been established Ms Js recollection of 
events is unreliable. But if there have been some areas of inconsistency in what  shes said at 
times, thats not necessarily  surprising given how long ago events  occurred and how long the 
complaint has been going on. 
I have said that I find some  Ms Js recollections  compelling , but I was specifically referring to 
her comments  about  the assets  recorded  on the fact find that she says she didnt  own. While I 
accept it may now be difficult for her to recall  exactly  when Mr B called her and how many 
Ref: DRN481090932times, I think its far less likely she would  have forgotten  that she owned an extensive  portfolio 
of properties and investments.
I think  it would also be unreasonable to think any inconsistency has only come from one of 
the parties involved  in this complaint. As Ive outlined  above, FIFS hasnt been at all 
consistent about its sales  process  and the grounds on which it thinks  its actions were  justified. 
In May 2017,  its representatives told us it relied on HTA having categorised Ms J as an 
elective professional  client.  But it now says that wasnt the case  and it actually relied on a 
suitability assessment  completed by HTA. Theres a marked  difference between these  two 
positions.
In reaching my decision,  Ive been aware  of any potential inconsistencies in the information  
provided by either  party. But I dont  believe any this has prevented me from conducting an 
appropriate analysis  and reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion about  what  took place  
thats based  squarely on the available evidence.
conclusions
In conclusion, I think  the evidence shows FIFS failed  to act in accordance with the rules  covering the 
promotion of UCIS to Ms J and that it promoted its products to her when it should  have identified it 
wasnt appropriate to do so. After a detailed  consideration  of the exemptions set out in COBS 4.12.4, I 
dont think the information thats been provided  shows FIFS was able to rely on any of these to justify 
its actions. In connection with the category 2 exemption, FIFS hasnt provided  evidence it received 
written confirmation from HTA that its products were suitable for Ms J, I dont think  HTA was an 
unconnected firm in this context anyway, and I do think FIFS had reasonable  grounds to doubt  the 
accuracy of any suitability  assessment it was informed of by HTA. Its for these reasons  that Im 
proposing to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN481090933Extract from first provisional decision:
My Provisional Findings
Weve received extensive  submissions in connection with this complaint,  but I havent tried to address 
every single point raised here. Ive instead concentrated on what I think are the key issues  that are 
central to the outcome.
My understanding of the submissions from FIFS representative is that its saying the transaction  that 
led to the unregulated investment was a three-stage  process involving three different businesses.
The first stage was the initial contact by FIE, who gave  no advice and discussed the benefits  
of investing in land generally without promoting a particular investment.
The second stage  involving an IFA, HTA, although  the explanation  of its role hasnt 
necessarily been  consistent. On the one hand, its been suggested  HTAs role was to 
determine whether  Ms J was a retail or professional client. On the other,  its also been 
suggested HTAs role was to provide  advice on whether an investment was suitable  for Ms J 
or not. HTA also arranged the SIPP and the transfer  of Ms Js pension  benefits.
The final stage was the promotion of particular  land investments by FIFS. 
In respect of each of these stages:
Stage 1  FIE was a separate  company to FIFS. Although  it later became an appointed 
representative of FIFS, this wasnt  until 24 August 2012  after Ms Js pension benefits  were  
transferred and her investment finalised. Prior to this date, FIE appears to have been an 
unregulated business  and that means any complaint about its actions falls outside our 
jurisdiction and I have no power to investigate or make an award.
Stage 2  HTA was a regulated business in its own right and its actions have already been 
considered in a separate complaint.  Its not appropriate for me to comment  on HTAs  actions 
in this decision, except where this is relevant  to the outcome of the complaint about FIFS.
Stage 3  FIFS was a regulated business and its the actions  of this business after HTA had 
carried out its part of the overall transaction that Im considering in this decision.
Jurisdiction
The rules I must follow  in assessing all aspects  of this complaint are set out in the Dispute Resolution  
(DISP) rules, published as part of the FCA Handbook. Under DISP 2.3.1, I can only consider a 
complaint under our compulsory jurisdiction if it relates to:
an act or omission by a firm in carrying  on one or more  of the listed activities, which  includes 
regulated activities;  or
any ancillary activities carried on by a firm in connection with those  activities.
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO). Along  with other investors,  Ms J invested  in plots of land with a view 
to them gaining planning permission  and being  sold at a profit in the future. It seems to be accepted 
that the scheme is a UCIS.  Units in a collective  investment scheme  are specified as investments 
(article 82). 
Various regulated  activities  set out in the RAO were carried out by FIFS in connection  with the UCIS 
Ms J invested  in. These include establishing  and operating a collective  investment scheme (article  
51), arranging  deals in investments (article 25), and agreeing to arrange deals in investments (article 
Ref: DRN48109093464). The submissions from its representative also indicate FIFS was involved in promoting its UCIS to 
Ms J, once HTA had completed its part of the process. The FCA defines  a financial promotion simply 
as: 
an invitation or inducement  to engage in investment activity  . . . that is communicated  in the 
course of business
While promoting investments isnt specifically  listed in the RAO  as a regulated activity, Im satisfied it 
was essentially part of or ancillary to the other activities Ive identified and that FIFS  was involved in. I 
think this view is supported by section 8.23.2  of the Perimeter Guidance  Manual  (PERG), which says:
 
Anyone who is carrying on a regulated activity is likely to make  financial promotions in the 
course of or for the purposes of carrying  on that activity. 
With these  points in mind, Im satisfied the complaint is about an activity  we can consider and that it 
falls within our jurisdiction.
Merits
As FIFS representative  has identified, there were rules covering the promotion of UCIS investments 
at the time Ms J invested. The starting point in section 238 of FSMA was that:
An authorised person must  not communicate an invitation or inducement to participate in a 
collective investment  scheme.
But there were exceptions  to this. COBS 4.12.1 set out that:
A firm may communicate  an invitation or inducement  to participate in an unregulated 
collective investment  scheme  without  breaching  the restriction on promotion in section 238 of 
the Act if the promotion falls within an exemption in the table in (4), as explained  further in the 
Notes.
The table referred to in COBS 4.12.4  set out various types  of promotion to which this exemption could 
apply. FIFS appears to believe promotion to Ms J was covered by the category 7 exemption relating 
to elective professional clients. 
Under a category 7 exemption, promotion of UCIS was allowed to: 
An eligible counterparty  or a professional client.
The definition  of a professional client  included  elective professional clients.  To have been 
appropriately considered and treated as an elective professional client,  all three of the criteria set out 
in COBS 3.5.3 would have  needed to be satisfied. This says:
Elective professional clients
A firm may treat a client other than a local public authority or municipality  as an elective 
professional client if it complies with (1) and (3) and, where applicable,  (2):
(1)the firm undertakes an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience  and 
knowledge of the client that gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature of the 
transactions or services envisaged, that the client is capable of making  his own 
investment decisions and understanding the risks involved (the "qualitative  test");
(2)in relation to MiFID  or equivalent third country business  in the course  of that 
assessment, at least two of the following criteria are satisfied:
Ref: DRN481090935(a) the client  has carried  out transactions, in significant size, on the relevant  market at 
an average frequency of 10 per quarter over the previous four quarters;
(b) the size of the client's financial instrument portfolio, defined as including cash 
deposits and financial  instruments, exceeds  EUR 500,000;
(c) the client  works  or has worked in the financial  sector for at least  one year in a 
professional position, which requires knowledge of the transactions or services 
envisaged;
(the "quantitative test"); and
(3)the following procedure  is followed:
(a) the client  must state in writing to the firm that it wishes to be treated as 
a professional client either generally  or in respect of a particular service or transaction  
or type of transaction  or product;
(b) the firm must give the client  a clear written  warning  of the protections  and investor 
compensation rights  the client  may lose; and
(c)  the client  must state in writing, in a separate document from the contract, that it is 
aware of the consequences  of losing  such protections.
FIFSs representative seems to be saying the process was for HTA to determine  whether  Ms J was a 
professional or retail  client and that it then relied  on that assessment  to promote the investment. But 
on reading  the rules carefully, I dont think that was a valid approach. COBS 3.5.3 specifically says a 
firm could treat a client as an elective  professional  client if it complied  with the relevant requirements. 
My interpretation of this is that the firm involved  in promoting UCIS needs to follow the appropriate 
steps itself. So, a valid assessment by HTA might have permitted HTA to promote UCIS but not FIFS 
or anyone  else.
 
I think  this interpretation is illustrated in the context  of the third point above.  This says a client must  
state in writing to the firm  which,  when  read in the context of the rest of the rule, I think  can only 
reasonably be interpreted as referring to the firm promoting  UCIS, in this case  FIFS  that he/she  
wants to be treated  as a professional client.  I think  the same  could be said of the requirements for the 
firm  in this context FIFS alone  to provide a clear written warning of the protections being given  up 
and to obtain confirmation of the clients  understanding of this.
The rules do not say that a firm can treat a consumer  as a professional  client because another  
regulated firm classified them as such. I dont think they allow a firm to delegate its regulatory  
obligations in this way. FIFS seems to accept it didnt carry out the required steps itself to identify that 
Ms J satisfied the criteria for an exemption from the general prohibition  covering the promotion of 
UCIS. So it shouldnt have promoted  to her.
Further, I think the available evidence  indicates Ms J wouldnt have met the criteria to be considered  
an elective professional client if FIFS had completed a valid assessment as it should have.  
Ms J disputes  the accuracy of most of what was recorded about  her circumstances at the time in the 
fact find and assessment of expertise, experience and knowledge documents. While these record  she 
had an investment portfolio  and some experience  in this area, she says she didnt have  any assets 
aside from her home and pension.  I find Ms Js recollection of her circumstances  compelling. But 
even if the contents of the documentation  are accepted as showing she satisfied part (b) of the 
qualitative test, she doesnt  appear to have satisfied either  of the other criteria. Ive seen no 
suggestion that shed carried out relevant transactions at the required frequency  or that she worked  or 
had worked  in a relevant  professional position.
Ref: DRN481090936In view of the fact FIFS didnt  carry out a valid assessment to determine Ms J satisfied the criteria for 
one of the exemptions  that would  have  allowed it to promote UCIS to her. And given the available 
evidence appears to show  she wouldnt have met the criteria if an assessment had been completed, I 
think its clear that FIFS should  have concluded  it couldnt promote UCIS to her in any event.
Even if FIFS (wrongly in my view) felt it was entitled to rely on HTA having  correctly  assessed Ms J as 
a professional client, it doesnt appear to have obtained any documentation from HTA to confirm this 
had been done in accordance with the rules. For example, Ive seen nothing to show it obtained 
copies of an assessment of her expertise,  experience and knowledge, or anything to confirm shed  
carried out the relevant types of transactions at the required frequency, or that shed  worked in a 
relevant professional position. Ive also seen  nothing to show FIFS obtained copies  of a written 
warning given  to Ms J about the protections and rights she was giving  up or a signed statement  
confirming she was aware of the consequences  of this.
The circumstances in which its appropriate  for one firm to rely on information provided by another is 
addressed in COBS 2.4. In my view, the relevant sections are COBS 2.4.6 to 2.4.8.  I dont think 
COBS 2.4.4 applies  as that specifically refers to a firm receiving an instruction  from another, which 
wasnt the situation here.  At the time Ms J invested, the rules said:
Reliance on others: other situations
COBS 2.4.6
(1) This rule applies if the rule on reliance on other investment firms (COBS 2.4.4 R) does not 
apply.
(2) A firm will be taken to be in compliance with any rule in this sourcebook that requires it to 
obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on information  
provided to it in writing  by another person.
COBS 2.4.7 
(1) In relying on COBS 2.4.6 R, a firm should take reasonable steps to establish  that the 
other person providing written information is not connected with the firm and is competent to 
provide the information.
(2) Compliance with (1) may be relied  upon as tending to establish compliance with COBS 
2.4.6 R.
(3) Contravention of (1) may be relied upon as tending to establish contravention  of COBS 
2.4.6 R.
COBS 2.4.8
 
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a firm to rely on 
information provided  to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or a professional  
firm, unless it is aware or ought reasonably to be aware  of any fact that would give 
reasonable grounds  to question  the accuracy of that information.
So, for FIFS to rely on information  provided by HTA, the rules required it was reasonable for it to do 
so. In considering this point, I think its appropriate  to refer to the FCAs  Principles for Businesses.  
The Principles, which are set out in the FCAs handbook, were a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G).  Principles 2, 3 and 6 
said:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct  its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
Ref: DRN481090937Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively,  with adequate  risk management systems
Principle 6  Clients  interests   A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its clients and 
treat them fairly.
In R (British  Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] EWHC  999 (Admin)  Ouseley J 
said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific rules  
are added. The Principles  always have to be complied with. The Specific  rules  do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They  are but specific applications of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion  that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles  is inappropriate.  It cannot  be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules. 
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory  duty for the Ombudsman to reach  a 
view on a case  without taking the Principles into account  in deciding what  would  be fair and 
reasonable and what redress to afford.  Even if no Principles had been  produced by the FSA, 
the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular  statutory  duty without having  regard to the sort 
of high level Principles which  find expression  in the Principles, whoever formulated them.  
They are of the essence  of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about their 
relationship to specific rules.
Subsequently Jacobs J at paragraph 104 in R (Berkeley Burke SIPP  Administration Ltd) v Financial 
Ombudsman Service  having set out some paragraphs  of the British  Banking Association judgment, 
including paragraph  162 set out above, said;
These passages explain  the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA correctly  
submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to cater  for new or 
unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they are, and indeed were  
always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles-based regulation  
described by Ouseley J. was precisely  not to attempt to formulate a code covering all possible 
circumstances, but instead to impose  general  duties such as those  set out in Principles 2 and 
6.
So, the Principles have a wide application,  and I need to have regard to them  when deciding  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The transaction promoted  to Ms J involved investing her pension funds, which  were held in a defined  
benefit scheme with associated  protections and guarantees, to an alternative unregulated, high-risk,  
investment that presented  the possibility she could lose most or all of her money, thereby putting  her 
at significant risk of detriment. In the circumstances, I dont  think it was consistent  with the Principles  
for FIFS to simply  accept HTAs  word  that Ms J was an elective  professional client and could 
reasonably be treated as such without at least seeing evidence to show all of the requirements set out 
in COBS 3.5.3 had been  satisfied. Failure  to obtain sufficient evidence to confirm Ms J actually met 
the criteria for an elective  professional client before promoting UCIS to her was in my view contrary  to 
the Principles requiring FIFS to act with appropriate care and diligence,  to organise  and control  its 
affairs responsibly  and to have due regard to her interests. In short, I dont think it treated her fairly.
In conclusion, and by its own admission, FIFS didnt comply with COBS 3.5.3 before promoting  UCIS 
to Ms J because it didnt  carry out its own assessment  to determine whether  she was a professional 
client. Even if it felt another  firm had carried  out that assessment and that it was entitled  to rely on this 
 which I dont  think  it was for the reasons  Ive explained  I dont believe it treated her fairly by simply 
Ref: DRN481090938accepting HTAs word without obtaining evidence to show the assessment had been conducted 
properly and all of the requirements had been met. Given the evidence appears to show Ms J didnt 
satisfy all of the criteria  in COBS 3.5.3,  I have to conclude that whatever  happened, FIFS should  have 
decided it couldnt  promote  its investments  to her and refrained from doing so.
Ref: DRN4810909