K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Universal Personal  Finance Limited automatically renewed  a car 
insurance policy and loan agreement. Shes  unhappy that shes been charged the full 
amount despite  cancelling the policy.
background
Miss G held a car insurance policy which she financed with a loan from Universal.
In May 2018  the insurance broker sent a renewal invitation to Miss G and advised her that if 
she had previously paid for her policy with a loan from universal, this and the policy  would 
automatically renew.
The policy and loan renewed on 8 May 2018.  The total sum payable under the loan 
agreement was £793.50 broke  down  into 10 monthly instalments of £79.35. The loan 
agreement included a 14 day right to cancel.
On 22 May 2018 Miss G contacted  the insurance  provided and reported that her car had 
been stolen. She enquired about  cancelling the policy  but at this stage didnt make a formal  
claim.
On 30 May 2018 the insurance  provider  wrote to Miss G setting out her options in relation to 
the policy. From the information provided,  I cant see that Miss G replied and on 12 June 
2018 the insurance provide sent a 7 day notice  of cancelation letter. This was because  the 
car hadnt been replaced and it isnt possible  to keep  a policy  live where  theres no car being 
insured.
Following this, Miss G cancelled her direct  debit payments under the loan agreement.  The 
insurance policy was subsequently cancelled  with no refund of premiums. Universal asked 
Miss G to pay the outstanding balance of £626.76.
Miss G feels  that Universal should be able to get the money back from the insurance 
provider. She doesnt think  she should have to pay the full premium because  her car was 
stolen at around the same time as the policy automatically renewed.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that Miss G had claimed on her policy 
in relation to the stolen car and that the terms and conditions of the insurance  policy  stated 
that the policy would be cancelled in these circumstances with no refund of premiums.
Miss G didnt  agree. She said shed told Universal in May 2018 that her car had been stolen. 
She felt that Universal should recover the funds from her insurance provider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the renewal letter which was sent to Miss G in May 2018. This makes it clear  
that the policy and the loan will automatically  renew  unless Miss G gave instructions to the 
contrary before the renewal date.
Ref: DRN43839102Once the policy and the loan had renewed,  Miss G had a period of 14 days  to cancel  the 
agreement. I havent  seen  any evidence  to suggest  that she tried to do this.
When Miss G reported the theft of her car to her insurance company, she told them  that the 
theft had occurred just after the renewal of the policy.  This means that the claim was in the 
new policy year. Because Miss G made a claim in relation  to the theft of her car, the terms 
and conditions which say that the policy will be cancelled and no refund of premiums given 
come into effect.
I appreciate that Miss G feels that its unfair that she should have  to pay the full premium  . 
But Im satisfied that Universal  hasnt made  an error here. The insurance provider has 
applied the terms  and conditions and this means  that no refund of premium is due. This 
means that Miss G is liable to pay the outstanding premiums.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4383910