K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Gain  Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 11 instalment loans Lending Stream provided  to Mr W between  
December 2018  and March 2019.  Mr W borrowed amounts ranging between  £50 and £200  
to be repaid in 6 monthly instalments. The loans overlapped so that Mr W had to frequently 
make several repayments each  month. From  what I can see, Mr W repaid seven loans but 
four of the loans are still outstanding. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ws complaint in part and thought the loans from loan five 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Lending  Stream agreed with the proposed redress but 
Mr W didnt and so the complaint  was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account  
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Ref: DRN40078242Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Lending Stream has already agreed to make the redress that Id have required if Id upheld 
Mr Ws complaint  about loans five to eleven.  So Ill not consider these loans further.  
Mr W thought  that all the outstanding balances for these loans should be waived. But our 
approach is that consumers should  repay the principal they borrowed as they have had 
benefit of it. So I dont require Lending  Stream  to waive the outstanding principal Mr W still 
owes.
Lending Stream asked  Mr W for information about his income  and expenditure and it carried  
out credit  checks.  Mr W said his monthly  income  was between £1,450 and £1,550.  He said 
his monthly expenditure ranged  between  £800 and £425. 
For loans one to four, given the loan amounts,  what was apparent about Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time and his history with Lending Stream, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr W provided  or the information 
Lending Stream shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to 
start verifying what Mr W was saying. So I think Lending Stream  carried out proportionate 
and sufficient checks for loans one to four.
From the information Mr W provided,  it looked  as though these  four loans were affordable for 
him. So I cant say that Lending Stream was wrong to have provided loans one to four. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans five to eleven and I think  Lending  Stream should 
put things right, as its already agreed to do.
Lending Stream has already offered to set up an affordable  repayment  plan for Mr W to clear  
the principal he still owes. I think thats fair and reasonable as this is a positive and 
sympathetic approach to his financial difficulties. 
putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans five to eleven and waive any still 
outstanding for these  loans; offset this refund  against the balance  of principal still owing 
for loans five to eleven and the outstanding  balance for loan three and set up an 
affordable repayment plan to clear the remainder;
Ref: DRN40078243pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan five from Mr Ws credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from loan six onwards  means  any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  six to eleven  should be removed from Mr Ws 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest.  
Lending Stream must give Mr W a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks 
for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ws complaint.  I 
require Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending  Stream)  to pay Mr W compensation as set out 
above, as its already  agreed to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4007824