K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Lloyds Bank plc blocked his account and removed money from it after a 
report that it had been  used to receive  funds  fraudulently. He also complains that the bank 
discussed his affairs with a former business  partner. Hes been  assisted in bringing this 
complaint by his father but, for simplicity, Ill refer to all submissions as being made  by Mr L  
whether he made them or they were  made  on his behalf.  
background
Several years ago, Mr L set up a company, F, of which he was the director.  Both Mr L and F 
had bank accounts with Lloyds. Mr L also had an account with another  bank, which Ill call 
bank A. For a while F employed a friend and business partner of Mr L, Mr B. More  recently,  
Mr L decided to make Mr B a director of F. That arrangement didnt work out, however, and 
Mr L decided to leave  the company. He was removed as a signatory of Fs account with 
Lloyds.
Throughout his time working for F Mr L says he wasnt paid a salary. So, when  he left, he 
took advice from an accountant about how much the company owed him for his work  over 
the years. The accountant indicated that he thought a figure of £10,000 was appropriate, 
and so Mr L accessed Fs account  online and arranged to transfer that sum from the 
companys account  to his personal  account  with Lloyds. Shortly after that, he transferred the 
money to his account with bank A. 
When Mr B found out what had happened, he contacted Lloyds (on behalf of F) to say that 
money had wrongly  been removed from the companys account.  Lloyds  then took steps to 
recover the money from bank A and returned it to Fs account.  And it blocked  Mr Ls 
personal account while it made further  enquiries.  
Mr L complained about the banks actions. The transfer hed arranged wasnt, he said, 
fraudulent. Hed simply arranged a transfer  of money he was owed  by F  as evidenced by 
the advice hed received from his accountant. 
Lloyds agreed  to remove the block  it had placed  on Mr Ls account and offered him £850  in 
recognition of the trouble  hed been put to. But it didnt seek to return the money  to Mr Ls 
personal account. It also acknowledged  that it told Mr B that Mr L had brought  a complaint 
and agreed to pay him a further  £250  in recognition of the breach of confidentiality in doing  
that.
Mr L didnt think that Lloyds had done enough. In particular, he thinks it should  return the 
£10,000 he says hes owed by F. He complained to this service, and one of our investigators 
considered his complaint. The investigator didnt  agree though  that it was for Lloyds to try to 
recover the £10,000. Mr L didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman review  the matter  
as the final stage in our process.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive come to 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did. 
Ill deal of first of all with Lloyds decision to recall  the £10,000 from bank A and then to 
return it to Fs account. It seems  that Mr B told Lloyds that money had been  transferred out 
Ref: DRN41254132of Fs account without  proper authority.  On the face of it, that was correct, since  Mr L had 
already taken steps to remove himself from the companys mandate.  And Companies House 
records indicated hed resigned as a director. 
Faced with those facts,  I think Lloyds  had to do something to protect its customer,  F, from 
what appeared to be an unauthorised transfer  from its account. In the circumstances, I dont 
think it was unreasonable to return  the money  to its source  Fs account. Arguably, the bank 
could have blocked the money  which is what I might expect it to do where theres  a dispute 
over funds held in one of its accounts. But in this case it doesnt appear that Lloyds thought 
there was a dispute; the information  it had was simply that money  had been  removed  from 
Fs account  without the knowledge or authority  of the account signatory. There  was, on the 
face of it, no reason to treat this as anything  other  than an unauthorised transfer.  
I turn next to the block  placed on Mr Ls account. Again, I can see why the bank did this. The 
account had been used  to receive  a large  sum which had been transferred without the 
authority of the person  who (by then) controlled the sending account. Blocking the account 
while further enquiries were made was a rational and proportionate response  to that. Im 
pleased to see though that, once those enquiries  had been made and it was established that 
this wasnt a case of fraud, but a dispute about  money Mr L said he was owed,  the block was 
lifted. 
Lloyds accepts that it should not have told Mr B that Mr L had made a complaint, and I 
agree. But I also agree  that the compensation its paid in respect of that  £250  is fair in 
the circumstances.     
Mr L still believes though  that Lloyds should  transfer  the money back to him. In making that 
argument, he says theres  no question that its money that is properly owed to him. But I 
have to disagree with him about  that. Thats not to say that he isnt owed the money; rather, I 
dont know what,  if anything, hes owed.  More importantly, thats not something I have any 
power to decide,  since its a matter between Mr L on one side and F and Mr B on the other.  I 
would comment though that, if Mr B agreed that F owed Mr L £10,000, he would presumably 
acknowledge that and arrange payment. The fact he hasnt leads me to think that, at the 
very least,  Mr B takes the view that things arent quite  as straightforward as Mr L says they 
are. 
As Ive said,  whether  F owes money to Mr L isnt something I can decide. But, more  
importantly, its not something Lloyds can decide  either. I agree with the investigator  that this 
is something Mr L will need  to take up with Mr B and F; but its not something this service 
can help with.
my final decision
My final decision is that I think Lloyds Bank plc has done enough to resolve Mr Ls complaint 
and I dont require  it to do any more. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2019. 
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4125413