K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) have recorded that theyve  
cancelled her motor  insurance  policy and told her shed  need to declare this to future 
insurers. 
Where I refer to CIS, this includes their agents. 
background
On 20 December 2017 CIS cancelled Mrs As motor insurance policy.  They  say they did this 
as theyd discovered three previously undisclosed claims. And had they been  made  aware of 
these at the start of the policy, they wouldnt have offered cover. 
Ive already issued  a decision explaining  that Im not able to consider Mrs As complaint 
about the cancellation of the policy itself. This was because it was referred to our service too 
late under  the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) rules. 
But Mrs A also complained that CIS had put a marker against her name and said shed need 
to disclose that shed had a policy cancelled to future insurers.  This complaint was referred 
to our service within the FCAs  time limits. One of our investigators didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld.  She concluded  that CIS hadnt done anything  wrong  when informing 
Mrs A of this. As she still disagrees, Mrs A has asked for an ombudsman  to review her 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIS said to Mrs A in an email dated  3 October  2018;
Whilst no marker is placed on your policy, you do need to advise future  insurers that you 
have had a policy cancelled as if contact is made with us, this would be disclosed to them.
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and 
insurer when entering into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty 
to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or 
misleading), provided the insurer has asked a clear  question.
I cant look into CIS decision to cancel Mrs As policy  for the reasons Ive already explained 
in my previous decision. But CIDRA  places  an obligation on a consumer to take reasonable 
care to not make a misrepresentation when entering into an insurance contract. It is common  
for insurers to ask about previously having had a policy cancelled. So depending on the 
specific question asked,  it is likely that Mrs A will have to declare her previous cancellation to 
a future  insurer. Based  on this I dont think it was unreasonable or unfair for CIS to remind 
Mrs A of her obligations under CIDRA  in these circumstances. 
I accept that CIS havent put a marker on Mrs As file or recorded the cancellation on 
external databases.  I think  theyve  made  clear that if a future insurer of Mrs As asks them 
Ref: DRN41236832about previous  cancellations, they will disclose this information. I dont think  this is unfair and 
it is common practice within the insurance  industry.  
Within the scope of this complaint, I dont  think CIS have done  anything wrong, so Im not 
upholding it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4123683