K821x#15Complaint
Mr L says Elevate Credit  International  Limited  (trading as Sunny) gave  him loans 
irresponsibly.
Background
Mr L took 8 loans with Sunny between November 2017 and December 2017. Each of these 
loans was due to be repaid over a period of six months  but Mr L repaid all the loans early  
sometimes within just a few days. Some of Mr Ls loans overlapped with one another. A 
summary of Mr Ls borrowing is shown below.
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest Repayment*
1 11/11/2017 15/11/2017 6 £100.00 £25.44
2 21/11/2017 24/11/2017 6 £150.00 £40.96
3 23/11/2017 19/04/2018 6 £100.00 £67.98
4 28/11/2017 29/11/2017 6 £100.00 £53.43
5 30/11/2017 19/04/2018 6 £250.00 £92.36
6 20/12/2017 19/04/2018 6 £150.00 £140.80
7 21/12/2017 24/12/2017 6 £100.00 £172.91
8 24/12/2017 19/04/2018 6 £100.00 £172.06
* The highest  repayment figure is sometimes made  up of multiple  payments when the 
loans overlapped.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and he recommended Sunny refund the interest 
and charges on loan 6 onwards (as well as removing these loans from his credit file) as it 
appeared that Mr L had become reliant  on this form of lending. 
Sunny did not agree.  It said it asked about Mr Ls income and all his expenses; including  
short term lending. It said, on average Mr L was only using 2.6% of his income to repay 
these loans. The nature  of its product  and the flexibility it provided means customers  can 
borrow up to four loans  at any one time.  It feels this gives customers more freedom to 
manage their finances. Mr L was charged  interest for less than six months  which is 
consistent with the loans  being used for short term borrowing needs. All these loans  were  
paid off early, with four of Mr Ls loans paying interest for less than a week. This shows  that 
Mr L was able to repay these loans back without any difficulty.
I issued my provisional decision on 2 December 2019 explaining why I was thinking of 
reaching a slightly  different  outcome  to our adjudicator and for different reasons - and 
upholding Mr Ls complaint in relation to loans 7 and 8.
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN49764292My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For completeness,  I 
have set this out below.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Ls case. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  Sunny  lent to Mr L. The 
FCAs Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit-related 
regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, 
such as Sunny.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr L could 
repay his loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Ls income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
So Sunny was required to establish  whether  Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Ref: DRN49764293The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet 
the repayments. 
It follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
So, although  Mr L may have repaid his loans early,  it doesnt automatically  follow  that he 
managed to repay them in a sustainable way. And the regulations  are quite clear  that Sunny  
needed to assess  the whether the credit it agreed was affordable in a sustainable manner. 
CONC 5.3.1(2) stated:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customer's  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
The previous  regulator, the Office of Fair Trading set out its guidance in the Irresponsible  
Lending Guidance. Paragraph 4.2 referred  to above stated:
Whatever means and sources of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit  sought  being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower being able to repay the credit in question. We 
consider that before  granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit, or 
significantly increasing the credit limit under  an agreement for running  account credit,  
creditors should take reasonable steps  to assess a borrower's likely  ability  to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner.
The current  regulator  has highlighted relending as a serious concern. It said in a recent letter  
(March 2019) to the CEOs of high cost credit providers that:
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  the 
High Cost Lenders  portfolio: 
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  
patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers  may 
not be able to afford.
CONC 6.7.21 stated  A firm should not refinance high-cost short-term credit  where  to do so 
is unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
Ref: DRN49764294[Note: paragraph 6.25 of ILG]
Paragraph 6.25 of the ILG stated Repeatedly  refinancing (or 'rolling over') a borrower's 
existing credit commitment for a short-term credit product in a way that is unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. 
The OFT considers that this would include a creditor allowing a borrower to sequentially 
enter into a number of separate  agreements  for short-term loan products, one after another,  
where the overall effect is to increase  the borrower's indebtedness in an unsustainable  
manner.
Sunny told us it undertakes eligibility, creditworthiness  and affordability checks  before 
deciding as to whether  to provide a loan. I can see it asked Mr L for details of his income  and 
expenses as well as carrying out a credit search. 
I think that the checks Sunny did before agreeing  the first four loans were proportionate and 
the information Mr L provided indicated that the loans were affordable. I appreciate this 
might not have been reflective of Mr Ls actual  financial position at the time. But these were  
Mr Ls first loans  with Sunny and the repayments were small in relation to the income he 
declared. 
But by the time Mr L asked for loan 5, Sunny should  have done  more than rely on the 
information he was providing about  his finances.  I think it should have taken steps at that 
time to independently verify Mr Ls true financial position. We asked Mr L for copies of his 
bank statements and credit file so we could  see what better checks  would have shown 
Sunny. He didnt  provide these to us. So, Im not able to say that better checks  would have  
shown Sunny that it shouldnt have given loan 5 or 6 to Mr L.
I dont think it will always be appropriate or necessary to rely on a pounds and pence 
affordability assessment  where there is other  information available to support  that a 
consumer may be unable to settle a loan sustainably. I think  the pattern of borrowing here 
demonstrated that Mr L wasnt managing his finances and was unlikely  to have been settling 
his loans sustainably.  In my view,  Sunny  ought  to have fairly and reasonably  realised that by 
loan 7. 
I say this because  this was Mr Ls seventh loan in just over five weeks. Over the five-week 
period, Mr L had increased his borrowing from the initial £100 on loan 1 to £600  - a 
combination of loans  3, 5, 6 and 7. Mr L had only taken loan 6 out the previous day. 
Returning a day later for a further  £100 is not, in my view, a sign of someone managing  their 
finances.  So I dont  think Sunny should  have agreed loan 7.
Loan 7 was repaid 3 days later and loan 8 taken out for the same amount on the same day. 
So, Mr L wasnt really repaying  his debt to Sunny.  The repayment of loan 7 evidently left a 
gap in his finances, leaving him needing to borrow again the same day to fill that gap. So I 
dont think Sunny should have agreed this loan either. 
Ref: DRN49764295Putting things  right
Sunny shouldnt have given Mr L loans  7 and 8 and should put things right as set out below.
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr L towards interest,  fees and 
charges on these loans,  including  payments made  to a third party  where applicable, 
but not including anything  Sunny  have already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr L which were 
considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Mr L originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Pay Mr L the total of A plus B.
D.Remove any adverse  information Sunny has recorded on Mr Ls credit file in relation 
to loans 7 and 8. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to deduct  tax from this interest. Sunny should give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, Ive decided  to partially uphold 
Mr Ls complaint and direct Elevate Credit  International  Limited  (trading as Sunny) to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4976429