K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about how British  Gas Insurance Limited (BG) dealt with his Homecare 
insurance claim. My references to BG include its agents.
background
On the 9 August Mr H contacted BG about a problem with the mixer tap for his shower. He 
says BGs contracted plumber who attended his home on 13 August struggled  with the work 
and wasn't able to fix the tap so ordered a replacement. The appointment made for 
15 August was rearranged at short notice to 16 August.
Mr H says when the plumber returned he again  struggled with the work and caused a leak 
which he said was fixed. A few days later Mr H noticed water marks on his ceiling where the 
water from upstairs had been leaking.  Mr H contacted BG on 20 August and the same 
plumber attended  that day. He capped the water to the shower pump hose as the water  
pipes were near the electrics. 
BGs plumbers report of 20 August said the shower  pump had been installed incorrectly  and 
he told Mr H to get an electrician urgently to disconnect the electrics as it was dangerous.
Mr H complained to BG that its plumber had caused  the leak and the family  had been left 
with no working shower. He says BGs plumber refused to attend again. BG says theres  no 
record of the refusal and it has no such call recording.
Ultimately Mr H arranged for his own plumber and electrician to do the work.
BG offered to refund  the cost of Mr Hs plumber,  half the cost of his electrician, £30 towards 
ceiling paint and £50 for distress and inconvenience.  
Mr H complained to us. He says BG should pay for the full cost of the electrician, the cost of 
someone to paint the ceiling and more compensation.
BG told us the electrical work wasnt covered  by the policy. It sent photos its engineer  took 
showing a dislodged  pipe and a large water mark leading down the back wall and a wet floor 
under the bath. BG said the leak had already happened before it did any work.
Our investigator thought BGs offer was fair.
Mr H doesnt agree and wants  an ombudsmans decision. He says BGs  photo  was taken 
after its engineer  caused the leak.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to decide whether BG made  a fair and reasonable  offer, and I think  it did. I dont 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
BGs plumber should have attended to reconnect the water to the pump. So it should refund  
the full cost Mr H paid for a private plumber, and its offer included those full costs.  
Ref: DRN48346352The electrical work Mr H needed isn't covered by the policy  as electrical  work for shower  
pumps is excluded. Mr H says the pump itself didnt need any electrical  repair;  the issue  was 
it wasnt attached  to a fused  independent  switch. Mr Hs electrical invoice say the work done  
was for the shower pump circuit so I think BG can fairly say the work was excluded.
Also, the policy excludes improvement or update work. BGs sent us a report  by its engineer  
dated 31 March  2016 which says pump not correctly installed quoted (for) install  correctly.  
Mr Hs electricians invoice says the work done on the shower pump was domestic 
alterations and additions. So I think BG can also fairly say the electrical work was 
improvement or upgrade work and excluded by the policy.
So I dont  think BG needed to offer to pay for any of the electrical work. It offered to pay half 
the cost, about  £55, so thats  more  than fair.
BG disputes it caused the leak, although  it offered  £30 for paint costs. Ive seen BGs  
photos. Ive seen what Mr H says about  when  the leak occurred. I dont know  if the photo  
shows a leak caused due to BGs work  or not.
In these circumstances the fair outcome is for BG to make a contribution  to the redecoration 
costs. From  the photos the water  stains dont look extensive and Mr H hasnt evidenced why 
he would  need  a professional decorator. He hasnt  sent us information  about what  the 
redecoration costs  would  be, but given the damage  I think BGs £30 offer is a reasonable 
contribution.  
Mr H was distressed and inconvenienced  by BGs service.  I can't  say BG caused the leak 
but his shower  was capped for several  days without BG taking action. Mr H says his family 
had to wash in buckets of water  in the bath.  Mr H is the sole policyholder  so the only person 
I can award compensation for, but he would have been upset by his familys situation.  
However, overall I think BGs offer of £50 was reasonable  when taking into account its offer 
already included about £55 more than I think it needed to pay, as Ive explained above. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4834635