K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave him an overdraft facility  on his student  current  
account. He said this was irresponsible lending because he had other  student  accounts that 
were overdrawn. Mr Js also complains  that he was allowed to access  his online banking and 
withdraw his money  before receiving  his bank card and PIN.
background
On 27 October 2017 Mr J visited an HSBC branch and applied to open a student account.  
When HSBC approved his application  it gave him an overdraft facility  of £1,000 and a credit 
card with a £500  credit  limit. Mr J withdrew the full overdraft amount on 30 October 2017.
Two days before Mr J opened his HSBC account he had opened  a student account with 
another bank.  And he also had another account  with a different bank that he opened  in 
August 2014.  He said this account was overdrawn  by £1,500.  So, by the time Mr J opened  
his account with HSBC he already had two student  bank accounts  elsewhere.
On 4 July 2018,  a letter HSBC had sent to Mr J was returned undelivered to it. So it removed 
his overdraft facility  the same day. It said it had written to him at the address Mr J had 
provided during  the application process.  So, it wrote to him again in July, August and 
September to ask him to update his correspondence address. As HSBC  didnt hear from Mr 
J it defaulted his account on 27 September 2018. 
On 3 October 2018 Mr J complained to HSBC  that it had lent to him irresponsibly. He felt it 
hadnt undertaken appropriate affordability  checks. And he thought it shouldnt have 
provided him with an overdraft facility because he was a student and had other accounts that 
were overdrawn. 
But HSBC  didnt uphold  Mr Js complaint so he referred it to us. After  our investigator 
investigated, they thought  HSBC hadnt done anything wrong or needed to do anything more  
here. Mr J didnt  agree with this. So his complaints now been  referred  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
While I sympathise with Mr Js situation,  having considered everything  that he and HSBC 
have said, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. I know Mr J feels very strongly  about  this matter, which is understandable. But what  
I must determine here is whether  HSBC acted fairly and reasonably .
I think its important to say at the outset that while Mr J has referred complaints about  a 
number of his bank accounts to our service, they are being dealt with separately  by our 
service. This complaint is about whether HSBC made an error when it approved  his 
application for a student bank account  and gave him an overdraft facility. So Ill restrict my 
comments to what  HSBC  did here.
Mr J thinks HSBCs decision  to approve an overdraft facility  was irresponsible because  he
Ref: DRN45336912was a student and had other student  accounts that were overdrawn. But based on what Ive 
seen, I dont think it was wrong of HSBC to allow Mr J to have another  student  account with 
an overdraft facility. Ill explain why.
Before agreeing to lend,  HSBC is required to assess the affordability of credit  to ensure that 
a customer can afford  to repay what theyre  borrowing. As our investigator explained to Mr J, 
its up to HSBC which checks  it carries out but they need to be reasonable and proportionate 
to, for example, the amount being  borrowed, the cost of repayment  and a customers lending  
history. 
Mr J thinks we should tell a lender what checks they should  undertake.  But, were not the 
regulators of banks or building societies. So, we cant say a lender shouldve  done any 
particular check and there isnt a set list of checks it needed to do in any event.  We also 
cant tell a business how to set out its lending criteria. And I can see our investigator  has 
already signposted Mr J to the Financial Conduct  Authority,  which  set the guidelines that 
financial organisations have to adhere  to should Mr J wish to pursue this issue further. 
Having carefully considered what both HSBC and Mr J say here, it seems to me that at the 
time Mr J made his application  for a student  account, HSBC fairly assessed  his ability  to 
repay the overdraft  it offered him. I say this because  when it made  the decision to offer the 
overdraft facility to Mr J it had confirmed he was a student. It undertook credit scoring 
assessments and it considered its lending criteria, which Mr J met. And having  seen the 
application itself,  I can see that Mr J told HSBC he had an annual  income  of £15,000. So the 
amount he was borrowing was relatively small compare to the income he had declared to 
HSBC.
Mr J said HSBC didnt ask for any evidence of his income or student finance. But I think it 
was reasonable  for HSBC to rely on the information hed provided about his student status 
and income in good faith. HSBC reviewed  the information hed provided as part of the 
application process. And it had decided the overdraft facility was affordable  to him after 
assessing his credit file and its internal  affordability  and lending  criteria. It had no reason to 
believe that Mr J had provided false or inaccurate  information during his application. So, with 
this in mind,  Im satisfied  HSBC carried out enough checks and fairly assessed Mr Js ability  
to repay  this overdraft before approving it. And, it follows that I dont believe HSBC loaned  
money to him irresponsibly.
Mr J has said he thinks someone who is a student with overdrawn accounts  elsewhere 
should be an indication  of financial difficulties. But theres no evidence he told HSBC  about 
his financial difficulties. If he did it wouldve had had a duty to treat him positively and 
sympathetically. But this wouldnt have involved it writing off the debt he owes.  Instead  wed 
expect a bank  to consider waiving or freezing  any interest or charged it had applied  to a 
customers account. And, as this was a student account, no interest or charges were applied  
here.
Irresponsible lending  isnt just about whether he could afford to repay the credit or not. Its 
also about whether  theres another reason Mr J shouldnt have the credit.  For example, it 
could be irresponsible  to lend money to someone  whos in a debt spiral. 
I know that Mr J feels that HSBC shouldve been aware that he had overdrafts with other 
banks before it approved his overdraft facility.  And he thinks that it shouldve found out how 
he was managing these accounts  when it undertook its affordability assessment. He thinks 
this would have  prevented  it from giving him an overdraft facility.  But I think  it wouldve been 
Ref: DRN45336913difficult for HSBC to get a true picture of how Mr J was managing  his finances when he 
applied for his account with it because at that time his credit file would only have shown 
another account, which had been  opened in August 2014. And I can see from Mr Js credit  
report that HSBC wouldnt  have known this account was a student account. I understand 
that Mr J had opened another account  two days before he opened his account  with HSBC 
but its unlikely  this wouldve shown up on Mr Js credit file until much later. So, HSBC  
wouldnt have known  about this account  unless Mr J had told it about it.
Having seen Mr Js credit file I can see he accumulated a lot of debt and has a poor credit 
rating. But the credit history I can see wouldnt have been available  to HSBC at the time it 
approved his overdraft  facility because he opened four other bank accounts after opening his 
account with HSBC. So, I dont think HSBC made a mistake when it gave  him the overdraft 
facility. And I think in view of the information  HSBC had available its decision to give Mr J an 
overdraft facility was reasonable  in the circumstances.  From  what  Ive seen Mr J made 
withdrawals and payments into his account after opening it. And I can see he kept his 
balance under the limit. So, Im not persuaded that the overdraft  was unaffordable or that 
HSBC lent irresponsibly when it agreed to approve  his application for a student  account with 
the overdraft facility. 
The final part of Mr Js complaint is that HSBC allowed him to access  his online banking  and 
withdraw his money  before his bank card and PIN had arrived at the address that hed given 
HSBC. But I cant say it did anything  wrong  here because  it had already approved Mr Js 
overdraft application  three days before he withdrew the money. Mr J didnt need his bank 
card or PIN to access online banking. So, with that in mind, it had no reason to refuse him 
access to the money he withdrew. It follows that I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC  
to allow  Mr J to access  his money  online or that it did anything wrong here.
I appreciate the reasons why Mr J brought this complaint to our service. And I sympathise 
with the difficulties hes found himself  in. But Im not persuaded  that HSBC  shouldve acted 
differently here. I dont  think its done  anything wrong and, because  of this, I wont  be asking  
it to do anymore.
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4533691