K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the handling  of a claim under  his home emergency insurance 
policy with Acromas Insurance  Company  Limited.
background
Mr B made a claim in relation to a wall mounted heater in October 2018. Acromas sent an 
engineer out the next day who apparently said it could not be repaired. However, Acromas 
sent another engineer  out on 7 November 2018.  He recorded that he removed the front 
cover of the heater to carry out some work and concluded that the thermostat needed to be 
replaced. The engineer returned  in late November 2018 to fit it. 
Mr B says the engineer that fitted the new thermostat unscrewed the heater and bent the 
panel down to reach the thermostat at the back of the heater. Mr B says the legs of the 
heater were  pulled forward by this causing damage to the flooring under the heater. He says 
the wooden floor panels near the heater  are now bulging  and move. 
Mr B says he told the engineer about it at the time of his visit; the engineer  agreed the floor 
was damaged and tried to fix it but was unable to do so. The engineer  apparently told Mr B 
that the damage was not very noticeable. Mr B wants Acromas to pay the cost of rectifying  
the flooring and has provided an estimate  for this work of £625. 
Acromas says Mr Bs floorboards werent  damaged by its engineer.  Acromas  says none of 
its engineers would have needed to remove the heater from the wall to work on it; they only 
removed the front panel. Acromas also says the thermostat was a rod that the engineer  was 
able to slide down  the back of the heater. 
Acromas has also provided a statement from the engineer that fitted the thermostat,  which 
says that he did not detach any part of the heater from the wall. He also says the thermostat 
was a rod that he was able to attach to the back of the heater. The engineer did say he 
talked to Mr B about the flooring not being right and he did try and help rectify this by 
removing some bricks from the heater, but this didnt  work. The engineer says the flooring 
was faulty before his visit and he tried to help out of goodwill. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She did not recommend  it be upheld as she 
did not consider  there was sufficient evidence  that Acromas had caused the damage to the 
flooring. 
Mr B doesnt  accept the investigators assessment and so the matter has been referred to 
me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says the engineer unscrewed the front of the heater and bent the front panel  down  and 
in so doing it pushed the flooring  upwards  damaging it. The engineer says he didnt unscrew 
the heater  (although he did remove the front cover) and the floor was in the condition it was 
before this claim. There is therefore  a direct  conflict of evidence about  what was done  
Ref: DRN49554722during that appointment  and it impossible for me to be certain  about  what  happened. I have 
to therefore consider all the evidence, such as it is, to determine  what is most likely. 
Mr B has provided a video  which shows the flooring (which appears to be laminated strips) 
immediately around  the heater moves when  trodden on. It seems  that the flooring is not fixed 
to the subfloor properly in this area, which is why it flexes when walked on. I cannot  see any 
damage to the surface of the flooring  there  are no obvious splits  in the laminate or signs of 
other damage where the legs of the heater go through the floor.  
The engineer apparently  tried to rectify the problem by removing some of the heater bricks. 
This would reduce the weight of the heater but would  not fix the laminated strips in place. I 
do not think the fact the engineer offered  to do this establishes that he caused the damage.   
Mr B has also provided a quote  for the repairs  required. The contractor  says the 
heater needs to be removed, the legs of the heater adjusted  under the wooden floor 
and around 15 floor planks in the vicinity need  to be adjusted.  The contractor doesnt 
say how he thinks the damage was caused  and the work described does not,  in my 
view, support  that the damage was caused  by the engineer  bending the heater panel 
down.
Having considered everything, including the repair that was required, I do not consider there 
is enough evidence  to conclude that it is more likely than not that Acromas caused the 
damage to the floor.  I am unable therefore  to ask Acromas to do anything further. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 October  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4955472