K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that The Prudential Assurance  Company  Limited wont cancel  the 
dependants benefit she receives from her late husbands annuity.  
background
In 2008, after speaking with a financial adviser, Mr M used  his Protected Rights  pension fund 
to buy an annuity  with Prudential. He chose  to take a tax-free cash sum of 25% of his fund 
value, and the remainder would provide him with an income. As Mr M was married when he 
retired it was a compulsory requirement  for the annuity to provide a dependants  income  
when he passed  away, which  would be 50% of his protected rights income. 
When Mr M sadly died,  Mrs M told Prudential  that she only wanted  to receive the 
dependants benefit payment as a lump  sum as it was cause her a financial loss through  a 
reduction in her other benefits if she was to receive it an as income.  She said Mr M hadnt 
understood the annuity when he took it out. 
Prudential said it wasnt possible for it to cancel Mrs Ms annuity  payments as it was legally 
and contractually bound to continue to pay them for the rest of her life. It said the payments 
were designed  to be made as continuous payments to provide a regular income  and couldnt  
be paid as a lump sum. It confirmed Mrs M would receive £8.74 each month  initially,  and 
said these were non-taxable  payments.  It thought it would be exceptional for Mrs Ms 
benefits to be severely  impacted by these,  and recommended that she speak with the 
providers of those  benefits.
Prudential said the annuity was taken  out through a separate financial adviser so they were 
responsible for the advice Mr M received. 
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld. He said 
Prudential couldnt  be held responsible for the advice  Mr M received in 2008,  as this was 
given by a financial  adviser from a separate  business. He said Prudential  had a contractual  
obligation to pay the options  Mr M had chosen  when  hed taken the annuity and the 
dependants pension  was to provide Mrs M with an income for life. 
Mrs M didnt  accept the investigators findings  and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear of the concerns Mrs M has had about the impact receiving this payment  
might have on her other benefits. I can understand that this will have been  worrying at an 
already difficult time for her.
Mr Ms annuity contract with Prudential  started in 2008  and it included  a dependants benefit  
which meant that, after he passed  away, Prudential  would pay an income to his named 
dependant  Mrs M.
Ref: DRN41171202The money used  to buy the annuity was made up of a Protected  Rights pension  fund.  This 
was built up through  State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme  (SERPS)  rebates into a 
personal pension  or occupational money  purchase scheme that had contracted out of 
SERPS. At the time the annuity was arranged, it was a compulsory requirement for the 
annuity bought with this fund to provide a dependants income  after death if the person 
retiring was married, and this must be 50% of the protected rights  income.
I can see why Mrs M has asked to receive  the money as a lump  sum, or for the income to be 
donated to a charity, but these arent  options  Prudential is able to offer. Although  the amount 
of £8.74 a month is relatively small, the dependants  benefit is intended to provide her with a 
regular form of income.
I know that Mrs M feels that Mr M didnt  properly understand the annuity when he took it out. 
However, he received  advice from a separate business to Prudential, so it isnt responsible  
for how it was sold to him. 
I can only suggest that Mrs M speaks with the relevant government department about her 
benefits to better understand  any affect  receiving this monthly  payment  may have.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4117120