K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC paid debt collectors, rather  than her, a refund of 
charges on her account. She thought that she had cleared the balance  with the debt 
collectors so the charges shouldve been  refunded to her. 
background
Mrs K held an account with Lloyds.  There was an overdraft on this account. Lloyds say that 
the account was defaulted  in 2012. Then, in November 2014, the debt was sold to another  
agency (D). They say that the closing  balance was £2,756.82.
Mrs K says that she was contacted by D at some point. She says she was asked to make a 
payment to clear the balance which she says that she did. 
Lloyds carried out a remuneration project. This resulted in refunds  for their customers where
Lloyds believed they had been charged  too much in charges for their overdraft.
In March 2018, Mrs K was refunded  £251.86.  Then in March 2019, a further  refund of 
£938.13 was made.  Both of these refunds were  sent to D. They say that the outstanding 
balance was then reduced to £1,566.83.
Mrs K contacted Lloyds  to say that the refunds were rightfully hers as she had cleared the 
debt. Lloyds didnt  agree with this. They said that they had no evidence  of the debt being 
cleared. 
Mrs K wasnt  happy with this outcome so she came  to us. 
Our investigator couldnt find evidence any repayments on the account. She found that the 
debt had been correctly sold to D and that D were  entitled  to the refund of the charges to 
reduce the amount owed.  
Mrs K wasnt  happy with this outcome so it has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Mrs K wont be happy  with my decision. From what  I have seen, I think that 
the refunded charges should  go towards paying off the debt that D hold. I will explain why. 
Firstly, I would like to explain that Im aware  that Mrs K said that she had asked for 
information from Lloyds  a number of times over many years about how the debt accrued. 
This forms  the basis of a different  complaint  and I wont consider it here.  
Im looking  at whether  the refunded charges shouldve been paid to Mrs K instead  of to D. In 
considering this, Ive had to decide whether, based on what  Ive seen,  a debt was 
outstanding. 
Ive looked at the closing  statement  that Lloyds have  sent and it shows clearly  that the 
closing balance was £2,756.82 in September 2012. 
Ref: DRN42301102Ive seen further evidence from D showing that there  was a repayment of £10 but thereve 
been no further repayments. 
Im aware that Mrs K said that she paid £670 to D. But Ive been  unable  to find any evidence  
of this. This might be uncovered in the second  complaint that Mrs K has started. But there is 
nothing that Ive seen which shows that it was paid. 
So, I cant say that the debt was paid off. Because of this, I think  that Lloyds behaved  fairly  
and reasonably in refunding the charges  to D rather than to Mrs K, as this reduced the debt 
that is owed. 
Im sorry  that this isnt the outcome that Mrs K was hoping for. 
my final decision
Because I think that a debt is still owed to D, I think that Lloyds Bank PLC were  right to pay 
the refund  charges to D. So, I dont  require them to do anything else.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4230110