K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to him irresponsibly.
background
I sent Mr H and Uncle Buck my provisional  findings  on this complaint on 
24 September 2019. A copy is attached and it forms part of this final decision. I explained 
why I intended  to uphold Mr Hs complaint about the second loan (Uncle Buck had already 
agreed to put things  right in respect  of the first loan) and asked both parties to let me know if 
they had anything to add.
Mr H accepted my provisional  findings.  Uncle Buck didnt  send  me anything further to 
consider before the deadline.  The complaint  file was returned to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  taking into account this services 
approach to complaints about  short-term  lending, as set out on our website.
As Mr H accepted my provisional findings and as Uncle Buck  didnt send me anything new to 
consider, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision, for the same reasons.  So 
Uncle Buck  must put things right for both the loans it approved  for Mr H. 
putting things right
Uncle Buck  must refund the interest and charges for the two loans it approved for Mr H, 
adding simple interest at 8% per year to the refund, from when Mr H paid the interest and 
charges (if he did) until the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle Buck  must give 
Mr H a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN47171992COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr H says Uncle Buck  Finance LLP lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr H had two loans with Uncle Buck, as follows:
Loan no. Date  taken Date  repaid Amount Term expectedInstalment 
expected
1 21/08/17 27/09/17 £300 71 days £131.85  per month
2 19/10/18 04/12/18 £500 104 days £184.48  per month
The most recent view from our adjudicator  was that Uncle  Buck  was wrong to lend both of the loans 
to Mr H. Uncle Buck  didnt  agree with the adjudicator  but put forward an offer to refund the interest 
and charges on loan 1 only. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case. 
As Uncle Buck has made a fair offer in relation  to loan 1, I wont go into detail on this loan. Instead, Ill 
focus on whether  it was right for Uncle  Buck  to have provided loan 2.
Our adjudicator thought that Uncle Buck was wrong to have approved  loan 2 primarily  because  of 
what Uncle Buck saw when it searched Mr Hs credit  history. Among other things,  our adjudicator  
highlighted that:
The total monthly value of payments  due on Mr Hs active accounts  was over £1,700
Mr H had opened  three  other short-term loans within 50 days  and had borrowed £1,500 in 
the last month
Mr H had five active short-term loans when he applied for loan 2
Mr H had declared monthly credit commitments of just £200 when he applied for the loan. Our 
adjudicator thought Uncle  Buck ought to have realised it couldnt rely on this information once it had 
seen Mr Hs credit history. And based on what hed seen  of Mr Hs monthly income,  our adjudicator 
thought Uncle Buck shouldve realised Mr H couldnt afford further borrowing.
Ive considered the complaint carefully and have provisionally arrived  at the same outcome as our 
adjudicator, for broadly  the same reasons. Uncle Buck had a number of objections to our adjudicators  
view and Ill deal with those  below,  explaining  why they currently havent changed my mind  with one 
exception.
Uncle Buck objected  to the adjudicators suggestion it should remove any adverse  information  it has 
reported to the credit reference agencies  about the loans. It said:
Mr H has also complained that we should have seen  other  entries on his credit file and therefore  not 
lent to him. If Uncle Bucks entries, or other adverse information, is removed then other lenders will 
not have the benefit of these
Ref: DRN47171993I think  its worth emphasising  that the adjudicators recommendation  was that only adverse 
information should be removed. So its not that case that other lenders wouldnt have been aware of 
the loans at all. Theres a need  for this service to strike a balance between the correct reporting  of 
information and ensuring consumers dont unduly lose out due to irresponsible lending. Requiring the 
removal of some but not all information about the loans  from a consumers credit  history is a fair way 
to balance those objectives.
In Mr Hs particular circumstances, I have some sympathy with Uncle  Bucks argument.  Mr H has 
himself placed  some  weight on Uncle Bucks responsibility to uncover adverse information from a 
credit check. And after both these loans  were approved, Uncle Buck learned  that Mr H had a 
gambling problem. So its arguable that removing adverse  information  may not be in anyones 
interests. On balance,  I think its fair to recommend  that Uncle Buck  does not have to remove any 
adverse information it has reported about Mr Hs loans   although  I do not know  whether Uncle Buck 
has actually reported  any adverse information. Both the loans were settled  early, so it may not have.  I 
make it clear that this provisional recommendation is made with reference to the specific 
circumstances of this complaint.
Uncle Buck has also defended its decision to remove a do not relend marker from Mr Hs account,  
which was applied and removed  at his request.  It is correct to say Mr H didnt inform  Uncle Buck  of his 
gambling problem when the marker was applied  and it wasnt removed until over a year later.  I do 
not criticise Uncle Buck  for removing  the marker.  The decision to lend was in my view unfair given 
what Uncle Buck knew about Mr Hs level of indebtedness when he applied for loan 2; the marker and 
the decision to remove it is irrelevant.
Uncle Buck has also objected to the adjudicators interpretation of Mr Hs credit history but 
I dont find what it has said to be persuasive. The information Mr H provided  about his credit 
commitments was significantly different than shown on his credit report. Uncle  Buck ought to have 
noted this and obtained further information to clarify the situation, including  speaking to Mr H. It was 
clearly aware Mr H had a large  amount of short-term  debt.
Uncle Bucks  main objection on the above point is that it doesnt think  all of the debt shown on Mr Hs 
credit report was necessarily due in the next month. But it doesnt seem that it looked  into this at the 
time and from what Ive seen (from his bank statements  and 
Uncle Bucks  credit report) the majority  of the loans  were due within a month  which is presumably 
why Uncle Bucks credit  report  showed  a total monthly credit repayment  value of over £1,700. Its 
also significant  that the credit report made it clear Mr H had five outstanding short-term  loans  when he 
applied for loan 2, which is large  number of this type of loan to have simultaneously. The number  and 
size of the loans was a strong indicator  that Mr H was struggling to manage his money at the time and 
so would  be unlikely  to be able to repay loan 2 sustainably.
Uncle Buck has suggested taking the total value of Mr Hs fixed-term loan account (£1,927) and 
dividing it by three in order  to obtain a more  accurate monthly repayment figure  for his debts. I cannot 
see why this approach should be taken  as theres nothing to suggest  this amount of debt was 
repayable in three  equal monthly  instalments. The information I have seen suggests Mr Hs monthly  
credit commitments were  higher than this, as Ive described above.
In short, I think the information Uncle  Buck obtained  in its credit check ought to have  led it to realise  
Mr H already had an unsustainable level of short-term debt and so it shouldnt  have lent loan 2. 
Ref: DRN47171994putting things  right
I plan to tell Uncle Buck to refund the interest and charges for both loans, adding simple interest  at 
8% per year to the refund, from when Mr H paid the interest and charges (if he did) until the date of 
settlement. 
I do not plan to tell Uncle Buck to make any changes to Mr Hs credit history.
my provisional  decision
I plan to tell Uncle Buck Finance LLP to put things right by taking the steps set out above.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4717199