K821x#15complaint
This complaint relates to the services provided  by CBC UK Limited in their capacity as 
Ms Cs insurance broker. Ms C has legal representation and allege breaches of duty and 
contract which resulted  in cover being  declined  by the insurer.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in a provisional decision, which  is attached. In that 
I explained why I intended to uphold  the complaint and how CBC should put things right with 
Ms C.
Ms C had nothing further to add and, in summary,  CBC thought  the easiest way forward was 
to make a payment  of £150,000 to Ms C via her solicitors. CBC says I cant  make an award  
above £150,000.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the replies Im not persuaded to reach a different outcome or add to the reasons 
for upholding  this complaint. But I will clarify my redress award, particularly to assist  CBC.
For the purposes of this complaint the maximum money award I can make  is £150,000. The 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys dispute  resolution  rules (DISP) set-out the ombudsmans 
power and in addition gives guidance.  The relevant  parts start with DISP  3.7.1 R which  says 
an ombudsmans determination  may include one or more of the following;
1)a money award;  or
2)an interest award; or
3)a costs award; or
4)a direction...
Money award, interest  award and costs award are subject to separate rules at 3.7.2, 3.7.8 
and 3.7.9 respectively.
DISP 3.7.2 R says a money  award  may be such an amount the ombudsman considers fair 
compensations for one or more of the following;
1)financial loss (inc consequential or prospective  loss); or
2)pain and suffering;  or
3)damage to reputation;  or
4)distress and inconvenience; 
whether or not a court  would award  compensation.
DISP 3.7.4 R specifies  the maximum money  award  I can make,  and the circumstances of 
this case are such that the relevant  limit on my money award is £150,000. And DISP 3.7.5 G 
gives guidance for the purpose of calculating  the maximum money award,  and specifies the 
following are excluded  from the calculation of the money award;
1)any interest awarded on the amount  payable  under a money  award
2)any costs awarded; and
3)any interest awarded on costs.
Ref: DRN49883822So, under DISP it might be that CBC will be paying  more than £150,000 as money award 
excludes the interest Ive provided  for on the money  award.
CBC has also said that interest is based  upon  that of a judgment debt and runs from the 
date of judgment. How we approach  interest  often, but not always,  considers the statutory 
interest rate on judgements. And well award interest  where  the policyholder has been 
deprived of money.  Ms C gave notification of a potential  claim to CBC in mid-November 
2016 and followed  this up with a list of damage  and photos on 6 December 2016.  The 
insurer had accepted some work was beyond restoration on 8 December 2016.  
What took place then was a delay in having the items assessed and ultimately the claim 
declined. For clarity  Im satisfied its fair to use 8 December  2016 as the start date to 
calculate the interest from as thats the date I consider  AXA could have reasonably  paid the 
main part of the claim. Restoration costs werent  paid by Ms C until much later and so for 
this element Im satisfied  its fair that interest runs from the date she paid the restoration 
costs. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require CBC  UK Limited  to do the following;
Pay Ms C the claim value of £131,590 (£132,590 less £1,000  that Ms C previously 
agreed with the loss adjuster for retaining the damaged property)  together  with 
simple interest at 8% per year from 8 December 2016 to the date CBC sends 
payment.
Pay Ms C the restoration  costs  of £6,300 together with simple interest at 8% per year 
from the date the costs  were  paid to the restorer to the date CBC  sends  payment 
(Ms C to provide evidence of her payment  date to CBC)
Pay Ms C £500  compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN49883823complaint
This complaint relates to the services provided  by CBC  UK Limited in their capacity as Ms Cs 
insurance broker. Ms C has legal representation and allege breaches of duty and contract which 
resulted in cover being  declined by the insurer.
background
The details and chronology  underlying this complaint are well-known  to both sides and so I wont 
rehearse them in full. A summary though is as follows;
Ms C was a longstanding client  of CBC
In December 2015  she spoke with CBC  about the renewal of her household insurance policy 
(regarding a rented  property  she lived in)
Ms C advised  that shed  had an offer accepted on a new property (due to exchange in early 
2016)
CBC confirmed its understanding of the insurance  requirements in writing
Part of this included  reference to specific conditions, including;
oher duty of disclosure  
oValuations  - the requirement for evidence  of valuations for items in the Collection with 
a value  greater than £15,000 in the event of claim; 
oBuilding works - the requirement to notify  in respect of building works planned with a 
contract value  of £50,000 or more prior to signing  contract/commencement of works;
And examples of material facts  stated included;
oUnoccupied premises
oBuilding works of more than £50,000, which  Ms C needed to make contact with CBC 
at least  30 days before the work  starts and before  entering into the contract.
Under the policy, Ms C was obligated to take reasonable care to prevent accidents and to protect 
against loss or damage; notify  changes in circumstances;  and in this policy notify  building works 
planned above £50,000.
In early January 2016  Ms C notified CBC of some changes to her circumstances  including that she 
was exchanging contracts on her new property in the next few days  and needed insurance cover from 
a particular date. The insurer  confirmed  to CBC, who referred the information  to Ms C, that the 
unoccupancy clause would  apply with an increased  excess subject to certain  conditions including that 
no building works were planned, and the property was in a good state of repair. In a conversation with 
CBC Ms C was asked  to confirm she was not planning any building works and the property was in 
good condition.
Ms C advised  CBC that she was renovating the house and structural  works  planned related  to a new 
floor under roof. CBC did not ask any further  questions  of Ms C in relation to these  matters.  Ms C 
followed this up with an email stating;
Shed do her best to visit once per week
Ensure  heating  maintained so far as she could as exchange had been deferred to 1 March
She was hoping  to get planning permission to put an extra floor under the roof and will let 
CBC know if this is possible and when it will be done.
CBC confirmed to the insurer that Ms C met all subjectivities as set out in the insurers email vis a vis 
the additional conditions  and requirements. And in a subsequent email to Ms C CBC didnt highlight 
the building works notification requirement, even though Ms C had already disclosed she was 
planning building works.
Ms C says CBC  failed  in its duty to pass this information to the insurer and let her know  if further 
information was required,  such as the £50,000  issue.
Ref: DRN49883824After exchanging  contracts  on the new property Ms Cs planning application  was refused and she 
undertook renovations including but not limited  to replacement kitchen,  bathrooms, electrics, 
windows and redecoration. Ms C spoke  with CBC several  times during this period discussing the fact 
builders were on site. And she complied  with the unoccupancy requirements.
Discussions took place about Ms C sending her contents and art collection into temporary  storage 
and the insurer confirmed to CBC that would be acceptable but damage by climatic conditions 
wouldnt be covered but a climatic  controlled  storage facility would  remove such a risk. Ms C told CBC  
that the artwork would be kept in common storage,  but she was advised that the insurer  wasnt happy 
with this. Later, Ms C advised CBC  she would move the contents and collection to her new property  
and secure  and protect the collection. On information from CBC  Ms C had a specified alarm  system  
installed.
In November 2016 Ms C did her weekly  check on her collection and found  some damp in the room. 
She notified  CBC and as a result took the collection to a gallery for assessment. Some art was 
beyond restoration. Ultimately the insurer  rejected  the claim, issues became  apparent which included 
the extent of the renovations were around £500,000 and not notified to the insurer.
Ms Cs solicitors have  referenced several failings on CBCs part and seek redress along  the following  
lines;
Damage to the collection at £132,590  (and £6,300 restoration costs paid)
Any overcharged premiums
Transfer costs for damaged items
Interest at 8% on the amounts
Legal  representation costs
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
One of our investigators investigated the complaint  and thought it should be upheld.  Regarding 
sales/renewals of the policy  he explained CBCs responsibility was to;
highlight unusual, onerous, restrictive  or significant terms
ask enough questions to be able to assess Ms Cs needs and establish  the policy  
recommended was suitable
ask accurate questions and pass accurate and relevant information to the insurer.
The claim
The investigator distilled the main issues down to Ms C not declaring building works over £50,000 and 
unoccupancy of the insured property.
CBCs case was that documents sent to Ms C were clear  about  disclosing building  works over 
£50,000 before signing contracts and starting works. But Ms C didnt do this and only said there would 
be decorating  work. 
In the absence  of call recordings  (as CBC  didnt record calls) the main source  of information  were  
CBCs notes and recollections. The investigator thought it was relevant  that CBC didnt ask Ms C 
whether she was planning  any building works over £50,000. In summary, the investigator said CBC  
hadnt asked a clear question and the information it did have should have been passed  to the insurer.
The investigator pointed to other information that should  have been clear  to CBC that works over 
£50,000 were ongoing;  the property value  was almost £4m; it was unoccupied; an alarm  had been 
fitted; and a builder  had a key to the property.  Despite  these factors CBC made  no further enquiry 
about the extent or costs  of the building  work. Indeed, one of CBCs representatives had recorded  in 
notes that it was his error, he should have asked more questions and knowing the situation he 
confirmed all was ok without  understanding the situation fully. He couldnt  apologise enough for his 
oversight and in an email to Ms C in May 2017 said it wasnt her fault as she wasnt asked appropriate 
questions.
Ref: DRN49883825CBC had pointed out the claim was also declined  because of unoccupancy. The investigator said 
while notes recorded  Ms C was moving  out of a current home it wasnt said she was moving to the 
insured property. And the information CBC  did have was sufficient to show that Ms C wasnt at the 
insured property. In the absence of more questions which  CBCs  representative had accepted werent 
asked but should have been, the investigator didnt think  CBC  did enough  to ensure the policy was 
suitable for Ms Cs needs,  nor did CBC point out the relevant significant  terms or pass  information  to 
the insurer.
More generally about CBCs service, the investigator said he thought Ms C was aware the claim had 
been declined albeit not the full reasons.  But the matter went on for a protracted period  as the insurer 
was pushing CBC to resolve the matter. It was confirmed things  had slowed  down at CBCs  end and 
Ms C was impatient.  The investigators view was that CBC didnt  do enough to keep Ms C informed 
and updated. 
The effect  of CBCs failings led the investigator to recommend that CBC  should;
Pay the value of the claim £132,590
Pay restoration costs £6,300
Add simple  interest at 8% from May 2017
Pay £200  compensation
He didnt recommend that CBC should pay Ms Cs legal costs as she could  have brought her 
complaint to us without  legal representation. 
CBC had requested a hearing  which the investigator explained wasnt necessary as hed been able to 
come to a conclusion based  on all the information that had been provided. 
Replies to investigators  opinion
Ms Cs solicitor accepted the opinion but asked that the ombudsman consider reimbursement of Ms 
Cs legal fees. They recognise Ms C could  have brought her complaint directly to us, but she wouldnt 
have been on an equal footing with CBC. CBC had corresponded through its compliance officer who 
is familiar with the legal and regulatory framework CBC  must operate within. And, in their view,  
adopted a selective, aggressive and legalistic  approach.  There was also a direction from us to engage 
at a without  prejudice settlement meeting where CBC  was represented  by two lawyers from CBCs PI 
insurer. It doesnt  seem fair or reasonable  that Ms C should, as a lay person,  be expected to have 
represented herself in such circumstances.
CBC disagreed  with the investigator on three main grounds;
1.Its wrong to say a broker has a duty to always ask accurate questions, rather to ask 
questions that a reasonably  competent  broker would have asked based on the information 
provided by an insured.  In this case, based on the information provided, a reasonably 
competent broker would not have  been obliged to ask further questions.
2.The investigator didnt reflect the obligation on an insured to provide accurate  information to 
its broker. Ms C was on notice of what to provide but did not provide the information.
3.The investigator didnt properly reflect the wide-ranging reasons the claim  was declined. Even 
if CBC had erred,  it was of no consequence  as the claim  would still have been declined  by the 
insurer
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN49883826My determination of this complaint is made in line with the regulators Dispute Resolution Rules 
(DISP). These rules say I must make my decision by reference to what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  DISP  3.6.4R  says I need to take into account 
relevant:
law and regulations;
regulators  rules guidance and standards;
codes  of practice; and
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry  practice at the time.
The parties  are familiar  with the relevant industry rules1 concerning CBCs obligations and duties as 
an insurance  broker  in an advised sale. And there are over-arching regulatory principles  which are a 
general statement  of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory  system2. Key relevant 
principles include those around;
Due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly
Communicate  in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
Building works declaration
Its not in dispute that the insurer wanted to know if Ms C was planning to carry out building works 
over £50,000,  and before building  contracts were  signed and works commenced.  Similarly, its not in 
dispute that CBC sent documentation to Ms C that contained disclosure  requirements, which  included 
building works notification where  over £50,000. 
Having considered  all the information Im satisfied CBC  clearly asked Ms C to confirm that [she was] 
not planning any building works And in response Ms C said further  to our conversationI am 
hoping to get planning permission to put on an extra  floor   And without further clarification  CBC 
advised the insurer that Ms C meets  all subjectivities (which included no building works planned). But 
what about the conversation  that Ms C refers to? There isnt a call recording,  but Ms C has completed 
a formal witness statement. 
In this statement Ms C says the conversation included  her explaining  that the house  had not been 
touched for over 50 years and would need  to be completely renovated, but that the only planned 
structural building work was a roof extension. Ms C says she also told CBC builders would be 
working full time until she moved in which was August 2016  but wasnt asked any further details. 
CBCs representative who spoke  with Ms C in the January conversation has also completed a 
statement. That statement makes no mention  of the conversation in January,  and as far as Im aware 
theres no phone note of said conversation.  So, Im left with the emails and Ms Cs statement. 
I accept a conversation took place in January as I dont  see why Ms C would refer to that in her email 
to CBC.  And Im satisfied  from her statement  that its more likely than not she gave more detail than 
what shed written  in the email about planning permission. The context  of the email appears a 
confirmatory email  of some  main points. It seems reasonable to conclude that the conversation was 
in more detail. There were  a number of changes  to the policy being made  because  of the change  of 
property and the emails  highlight information required, asked  and given. But as Ive said Im satisfied 
from what Ms C says that she gave  more  information. 
I dont think its necessary for this decision  to get tied up in dissecting  the words building works. Im 
satisfied Ms C complied with what she was asked about whether she was planning building  works. 
The email alone in my view satisfies this aspect  as it was clear she was planning them. And Im 
satisfied she told CBC more  generally about renovations  to the property in the conversation  in 
January.
1 Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS)
2 PRIN Principles  for Businesses (FCA Handbook)
Ref: DRN49883827Now, the next point is whether  Ms C explained  the proposed, or planned, works exceeded  £50,000. I 
dont think she told CBC the value but for reasons to follow I dont think  thats the determinative  factor 
on this. As Ms Cs broker relevant guidance at the time is in ICOBS  5.1.4 (G) which reminds firms  
about ensuring a customer knows what to disclose. This includes asking clear  and specific questions 
about the information relevant to the policy being arranged or varied.  And theres  the general clear, 
fair and not misleading  rule in ICOBS 2.2.2  (R), which  requires a firm to take reasonable steps when 
communicating information,  to do it in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading.  
The question CBC asked was to confirm  whether there were any building  works planned but not the 
cost, although documentation previously sent stated the requirement if above £50,000. CBC says its 
duty is that of a reasonably  competent broker  and that case  law3 supports a brokers duty isnt to be a 
detective to uncover material  facts that havent been communicated by the insured. 
I am not deciding the legal duty of the broker; the courts have made clear  thats a matter for them. 
The case law is a relevant  consideration in my determination  of what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. The Avondale case isnt, in my view, quite as simplistically set out as CBC  has 
summarised. There are some parts of the judgement that are relevant such as;
para 15 quotes the judge in Jones  v Environcom  Limited [2010] EWHC 759 (Comm)  
However, as the editors of Jackson & Powell  on Professional Liability  (6th edition) point out at 
para 16-059 a broker  will not be negligent  if he fails to ask questions about the risk which  he 
had no reason to ask or if he does  ask appropriate questions and the insured does not 
disclose important information to the broker (my underlining).
para 17 describes  a general proposition that there wasnt a general answer to a brokers duty 
but is to be decided upon  the facts  of the particular  case.
para 18 where the broker has actual knowledge  of material facts, he is under a duty to 
communicate those to the insurer. "If a broker fails to disclose material facts, with the result 
that the insurers subsequently avoid  the policy  or exercise some other remedy,  then (subject  
to any defence  of causation) the broker will be liable  for the loss sustained": Jackson & Powell 
on Professional Liability (8th edition), para 16-086
Para 116 speaks  to breach of duty by the broker in the case  and poses some questions 
relevant to the circumstances of that case;
othe relevant  question  was easily  asked in a moment; all possibility of 
misunderstanding could  have  been eliminated by the simplest of enquiries
othere were obvious  moments when  the necessary question  ought to have been 
asked.
In Ms Cs complaint  she had told CBC that building  works (and renovations)  were planned. So, I dont 
think CBC were  required  to be detectives to unearth material facts that Ms C hadnt informed it 
about. Indeed, the most relevant, pertinent and timely  question was How much are the planned 
works likely to cost or will they be more than £50,000. Even without saying CBC should have done 
anything more such  a simple question would have eliminated all misunderstanding. Im satisfied that 
CBC didnt communicate information about building  works in a clear, fair and not misleading way. 
And, in this case, Im not persuaded it would  be fair to agree with CBC that it had done all it needed  to 
by simply relying  on the inclusion of the obligation in documents  sent to Ms C over a month before. To 
do so would mean giving no consideration to the particular circumstances at the time when planned  
building works were notified and effectively condone a do nothing approach by the broker CBC. 
There was, in my opinion, every reason for CBC to ask about the amount of the planned building  
works Ms C had disclosed.
3 Avondale Exhibitions Limited  v Arthur  J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited [2018]  EWHC 1311 
QB
Ref: DRN49883828Unoccupancy 
Whats apparent is that from the outset in January 2016  Ms C told CBC the property was unoccupied. 
Discussions took place and conditions were advised concerning visitation and heating. As a reminder  
the policy  contains an exclusion for loss or damage or expense  where  the property remains 
unoccupied for more  than 60 days. Ms C didnt occupy the property to live in until December 2016. 
And there were several contacts between Ms C and CBC  during that time.
In early June  Ms C advised CBC that she couldnt move into the property as builders  hadnt yet 
finished, and so shed be moving  to temporary accommodation. At this point more than three months 
had passed since the sale had completed and Ms C was clearly beyond  the 60 days. The phone note 
dated 9 June  from CBC simply  says,  on the location  point, Ms C is moving home  not where  to or that 
the insured property was to be occupied in August. Even so, that meant the property would be 
unoccupied for five months. And in late July Ms C confirmed a moving date for 12 August 2016. 
The circumstances though were known to CBC in so far as the unoccupancy and its duration being 
way beyond 60 days. Endorsements  sent in January  and August said the insurer doesnt cover loss or 
damage unless Ms C complies with requirements  around inspections, heating  and security systems. 
The endorsements are silent on the 60 days and the time point is only described  in the policy 
definition of unoccupied.
Having considered  the information carefully  Im satisfied  Ms C disclosed a material fact of 
unoccupancy. Given the length of time CBC knew the property  was unoccupied, Im satisfied it is 
reasonable to have  pointed out the 60 days time limit during its discussions  and communications  with 
Ms C. I bear in mind  the rule that a firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability  of its 
advice for any customer who is entitled  to rely upon its judgment4. CBC was engaged in advising Ms 
C what she needed to do to comply with the insurers requirement vis a vis unoccupancy. CBC knew 
the property  remained  unoccupied beyond the policy definition and so the suitability of its advice  on 
how to comply necessarily  meant advising the 60 days limit. But CBC missed  numerous  opportunities  
to do that.
In concluding this section, I think its worth pointing  out an email from CBCs representative  who dealt 
with Ms C. On 12 April 2017, the representative acknowledged he was aware Ms C had mentioned a 
builder and that she wasnt  living  at the property. He said this
is my errorI should have asked more questionsshe had told me what  the situation  was
and I confirmed  it was ok without understanding the situation fullyI cant  apologise enough  for my 
oversight. And in a further email to Ms C on 5 May 2017 the representative said,  this is not your fault 
as you were not asked appropriate questions.
CBC insists  the representative was being too harsh, but I think this supports a failure  to be clear, fair 
and not misleading in communication around material  facts disclosed.
Causation
CBC has made the point that the investigator didnt properly look at this issue.  And in reliance it has 
cited further case law5 (Dalamd), which Ive considered. In simple terms CBC says that the insurer 
declined Ms Cs claim for a number  of other reasons,  so any error by it was inconsequential  to the 
final outcome;  
a)breach of an exclusion for losses while  buildings  are undergoing demolition, structural  
alteration, structural repair  or extension
b)Ms Cs breach of an obligation to take reasonable steps to prevent accidents  and protect 
against loss or damage
c)Ms Cs breach of an obligation to keep the property in good condition and repair.
4 ICOBS 5.3.1 (R)
5 Dalamd Ltd v Butterworth  and Spengler Commercial  Ltd [2018] EWHC 2558 (Comm)
Ref: DRN49883829Im satisfied I can deal with these  matters swiftly. Had CBC taken  reasonable care around the building 
works notification Im satisfied Ms C would  have given the detail about  extent and cost that the insurer 
required. Her information  and correspondence have always, in my view,  been open and frank.  And 
her circumstances are such  that I just dont think shed have taken any shortcuts to ensuring her 
considerable collection was properly insured and kept safe. 
Had CBC told the insurer that Ms C had said she was planning building works, the insurer has told us 
it would have  asked CBC for the works  value as well as other related details. This would have 
prompted CBC to go back to Ms C and Im satisfied that she would have  given the information. Part of 
her complaint is that CBC didnt ask her for the right information.  And as such this would have 
protected against point a).
Ms C stored her collection in a secured room  well away from any work that was being carried  out. And 
as an experienced person  in her field she stored the collection  in a way that would,  in ordinary 
circumstances, adequately protect it. So, I dont think point b) is something that CBC can genuinely  
rely on such that it would have defeated her claim.   
In a similar vein point c) probably wouldnt  have arisen had CBC told the insurer about  the building 
works planned. In any case, while a homeowner may decide to renovate  a property,  that doesnt 
mean its not kept in good condition and repair. There are publicly available records  of the property on 
line from its sales marketing and there is nothing to suggest the property wasnt in good condition  or 
repair prior to the building works. 
General service
CBCs failings have  caused Ms C to suffer  distress and inconvenience with regard  to her claim. The 
investigator pointed to some of the issues but in the main there was a lack of meaningful 
communication with Ms C and indeed even the insurer pointed to some concern about the lack of 
progress by CBC. But given the duration involved and distress  in being declined a significant  claim Im 
minded to find £500 is a more appropriate  compensatory award.
Pricing refunds
The insurer ultimately  sets the price and indeed  had all relevant  information been passed on sooner 
Ms C may well have  incurred higher charges earlier than she did. So, issues around the price  should  
be directed to the insurer.
Summary 
Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that;
CBC did not communicate information about the planned building works  and unoccupancy in 
a way that was clear, fair and not misleading
Had CBC done this then Ms C would  have disclosed  the correct  information and met the 
requirements of the policy
CBCs failing wasnt inconsequential to the outcome of the claim decision. CBC didnt ask 
the most obvious and necessary question about the cost of building works, or give suitable 
advice about the unoccupancy  exclusion, which  led to the situation Ms C found  herself in not 
having her claim  met.
Putting things right
Pay the claim  value of £132,590 less £1,000 that Ms C agreed with the loss adjuster for 
retaining the damaged property together with simple interest  at 8% per year from the date of 
loss to the date CBC sends payment.
Pay the restoration costs of £6,300 together with simple interest at 8% per year from the date 
the cost was paid to the restorer  to the date CBC  sends  payment.
Pay £500  compensation
Ref: DRN498838210Legal fees 
Our service is free to use for those parties wishing  to make a complaint about  a financial business. 
And were set up to decide  complaints quickly  and with minimal  formality.  Ms C could have come to 
us direct and indeed her solicitors could  have  advised  her as such. Her solicitors have asked for legal 
fees to be covered on the basis that it was necessary for equality of arms with CBC. But our remit  is 
inquisitorial, and we dont ask for pleadings that are common  to the court  process. And by nature of 
the complaints  we deal with the vast majority of people who come to us are unlikely to be on an even 
par with the firms they complain about. Thats why as a professional ombudsman  service  with the 
remit we have  and the emphasis on minimal formality, representative lawyers  arent  required.
Ill make one last point  on something the solicitors have said about an FOS direction that the parties  
were encouraged  to engage  in settlement discussions. As the legal representative knows an 
ombudsman may make  an award (monetary) or give a direction that a firm does something. We have 
not given any direction such as is alluded to, and rather the investigator notified Ms Cs 
representatives that CBC had said its happy to approach the matter constructively  and meet with Ms 
C and her lawyers on a without prejudice  basis to see if a commercial resolution could be reached.  
The investigator asked if this was something the legal  representatives were  happy with. They said 
theyd need to take instructions and indeed discussions with CBC took place. After several  months 
the lawyers told us to continue  with our investigation and so its apparent that a settlement wasnt 
reached. 
In all these circumstances Im not persuaded  that it is fair to require CBC to cover the legal costs.  
my provisional  decision
Im currently  minded to uphold  the complaint and require CBC UK Limited  to do the following;
Pay Ms C the claim value of £132,590 less £1,000 that Ms C previously  agreed with the loss 
adjuster for retaining the damaged property together with simple interest at 8% per year from 
the date of loss to the date CBC sends payment.
Pay Ms C the restoration  costs of £6,300 together with simple interest at 8% per year from the 
date the costs were paid to the restorer to the date CBC sends  payment.
Pay Ms C £500 compensation
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4988382