K820x#14complaint
Mrs V says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2001  when she applied for a credit card.
background
Mrs V bought the policy in 2001  at the same time as taking out a credit  card through an 
internet application.  She couldnt remember any details about the sale,  but she said she 
didnt need the PPI because she could get good sick pay benefits from her employer. So 
she concludes the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs V disagreed with our adjudicators view, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to look at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Vs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Vs complaint. I know this will be a disappointing result for 
her, so I will explain the reasons why.
I first looked  to see if Canada Square  Operations made Mrs V aware  the policy was an 
optional product. However, I think Canada Square  Operations made Mrs V aware on her 
internet application form that she had a choice about  buying the PPI. I say this because 
Ive seen a sample  of the internet screenshots which Canada  Square Operations says its 
consumers would have  seen around the time of Mrs Vs sale.  I can see the consumer 
was presented with a choice of Yes  or No to buy PPI. And Canada  Square said the 
application could  not progress to the next web page until a consumer had said yes or no 
to PPI. So as there was a choice given to Mrs V, I think  the policy was shown as optional.  
I think that as Mrs V chose to take PPI, she consented to have it added  to her credit  card 
account  although she cant now remember this.
Canada Square  Operations didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs V, so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. But it did have to give her enough information which 
was clear, fair and not misleading, so she could make her own decision. 
I went on to look at the information  Canada  Square Operations  said it gave to 
Mrs V. I think the information  about  the cost and benefits was clear  enough  for her 
on the internet  application. And as I think she chose to take out the PPI - it looks 
like she wanted this type of cover   so I dont think that any more detailed  
information would have put her off from buying PPI.
Mrs V also told Canada  Square Operations that she had no savings and good  
employee benefits at the time of the sale. I noted  the PPI could pay out in addition  
to her employee benefits, so I think the PPI could have been useful for her. Also,  
the policy had a low monthly price  and so I dont think  her employee benefits 
outweighed the PPI cost.
Ref: DRN41522682Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time, it also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. I dont think she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been useful for her if something went wrong.  So I dont think 
better information about the exclusions would have put her off taking out the cover.
Taking everything into account,  I think the policy was shown to be an optional  product 
and Mrs V consented to have it added to her credit  card account.  I think the information 
was probably clear enough  for her to make a decision. So I am not going to uphold this 
complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 November  2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4152268