K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains about end of contract  charges when she terminated an agreement with 
Lex Autolease Ltd. 
background
In May 2014  Mrs W entered into a lease contract with Lex Autolease  (Lex). The contract 
was for 48 months.  The car was returned in April 2018 at the end of the contract. It was 
initially inspected in the presence  of Mrs W and subsequently at the collections agents 
premises.  Damage was found on the car which Lex said went beyond fair wear  and tear. It 
asked Mrs W to pay charges of £1083.53.
Mrs W disputed  the damage. Lex agreed  to reduce the charge in relation to the tailgate  from 
£220 to £42, leaving an amount of £855.53  to pay.
Mrs W remained unhappy. She said the car was in pristine and valeted condition when it 
was inspected in her presence. She said that the only damage found  by the inspector was a 
slight scuff on two of the alloys,  which she was told would be considered  wear  and tear.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He looked at the photos of the damage  but 
didnt think all of the damage was chargeable.  He asked  Lex to remove  the charges relating 
to the RHF door, the tailgate and the roof.
Lex didnt agree. It said there was clear evidence of dents on the RHF door, the tailgate and 
the roof.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the agreement say that Mrs W must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds  fair wear and tear is the customers  
responsibility. 
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA.  These are widely accepted 
as an industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos and Ive had regard to the relevant 
guidelines. Lex has said that theres damage which goes beyond  fair wear and tear. Mrs W 
has accepted  some of the damage so I wont be commenting on this, only the damage which  
is in dispute.
Having considered the report and the photos  Im in agreement with the investigator  and Ill 
explain why.
The scratch  on the windscreen is very slight but it appears to be in the drivers line of sight. 
The BVLRA guidelines state that this isnt acceptable. Im therefore satisfied that the scratch  
goes beyond fair wear  and tear and is chargeable.
Ref: DRN49355082The dent in the LHF door is clearly visible and Im satisfied that it goes beyond fair wear and 
tear with reference  to the guidelines.
The dent in the RHF door is difficult to see. Lex has provided an image with the dent circled. 
Ive looked carefully  at the image but I dont agree that there  is visible distortion to the panel. 
On balance, Im not satisfied that the image  shows chargeable damage.
The tailgate  dent is also difficult  to see. Lex has provided an image  with the dent circled.  I 
can see some slight  shadowing on the image  but I cant be certain that this has been caused 
by a dent in the panel. I appreciate that Lex has already  offered a partial credit in relation to 
the tailgate but I dont think its fair to charge  Mrs W anything because  the damage isnt 
visible. 
The roof dent is difficult to see in the images. I appreciate the point  which Lex has made 
about the refection of the tree but I cant be certain that any distortion has been caused  by a 
dent. On balance  Im not satisfied that this is chargeable damage.
Taking everything into consideration, and on the basis of the images Ive looked  at, Im not 
satisfied that all of the damage is visible.
Ive taken into account that Mrs W was initially issued with an incorrect  invoice. This has 
since been rectified and I think the compensation of £50 offered for this error  is fair and 
reasonable. 
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  the complaint. Lex Autolease  Limited should 
remove the following  charges:
RHF door £42
Tailgate £42
Roof £250
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4935508