K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 2000. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Miss P says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
background
I sent Miss P and FICL a provisional decision saying I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I 
said Id consider anything else Miss P or FICL  wanted to give me by 9 May 2019. FICL did 
not send anything new. Miss P replied with further  points.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ps complaint. Ill explain  why.
Miss P took out the PPI (called  Account  Cover ) when she took out her card in a shop to get 
a discount on her purchases. FICL has given us a copy of the application form Miss P signed 
to apply for the card. She signed  once for the card itself and once in a separate section for 
the PPI. This section  said: Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account Cover  
Please debit my Account  with the relevant monthly  premium until further  notice and also 
said: only sign this box if you require  Account Cover.
Miss P says she didnt  want  PPI and only took it because she was told not only that she 
wouldnt get the card without it but also that if she didnt take it that day she would lose the 
preferential introductory  discount. She also says the shop assistant went  through  the 
paperwork very quickly and told her where to sign. She also points out that I cant be sure 
the sales process was followed  correctly given  how long ago it was. Also I havent anything 
to show what training was in place or whether any measures were in place  to ensure the 
proper procedures were  followed.
But, with all this in mind,  I still cant overlook that I havent anything else to support Miss Ps 
recollections of what she was told in the shop. But I do have  evidence  she signed  a box that 
told her only to sign if she wanted the PPI  so I think its likely it was made clear that Miss P 
didnt have to sign if she didnt want the cover, and shouldnt sign automatically. Also I know  
Miss P signed separately for the PPI and the form told her the PPI had a separate  monthly 
cost  so I think she was likely aware  the PPI was something separate from the card itself.
So, on balance  and after taking  into account all that Miss P has said,  what  I have makes  
me think FICL likely made it clear that Miss P didnt  have  to take the PPI - and she chose to 
take it. But I acknowledge that this isnt how Miss P recalls  the sale. Also I havent seen 
enough to make me think Miss P was pressured into taking the PPI with the card.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss P or offer advice about its suitability. So FICL didnt 
have to check the PPI was right for Miss P. But FICL did have to make  sure Miss P got the 
information she needed to decide whether  the PPI was right for her.
Ref: DRN44463272I dont know exactly what Miss P was told about  the cover. And in the likely circumstances of 
the sale, I think its likely the information FICL gave Miss P about the PPI wasnt as full or as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  Theres no indication Miss P was told enough about  the PPI cost 
or how the premium  would attract interest, for example. And its not clear what  information  
FICL gave  Miss P about the policy health exclusions. 
But from what Ive seen  of Miss Ps circumstances at the time, she wasnt suffering from any 
health problems   so the policy  exclusion for existing health  problems  wouldnt  have  stopped 
the cover  being  useful  for her. Also Miss P has said she was entitled to less than six months 
work sick pay  and she didnt have a lot of savings at the time.  For a successful sickness  or 
unemployment claim the PPI couldve paid out for longer than her work sick pay or until the 
card balance was cleared.  And the benefit wouldve been paid in addition  to any work sick 
pay or redundancy pay Miss P might receive.
Miss P was in a probationary period with her employer  at the time, and being on probation  
mightve had an impact on her ability to claim in some situations. For example, the policy  
excluded unemployment  Miss P had reason to know was likely  to happen. So if she knew 
her employment was likely to be terminated,  a claim arising from this isnt likely to have  been  
covered. But I havent seen  anything  that suggests Miss P thought when she took the card 
that her employment was likely to be coming  to an end in the near future. On the other hand, 
given the short time shed  been  with her employer, its unlikely Miss P wouldve been entitled  
to much redundancy pay if she did suffer  unexpected involuntary unemployment of the kind 
that the policy wouldve still allowed her to claim for.
Taking everything into account,  on balance it seems likely the benefit wouldve been useful 
to Miss P if something went wrong. And, in the light of all Ive said above, I dont think  better 
information about the cover wouldve made  a difference to Miss Ps decision to take it.
Ive considered Miss Ps recollections carefully in the light of everything else I have and the 
passage of time. Ive also thought about  all her points, including  what  shes  said about FCA 
guidance saying  it is mis-selling if the interest  on the PPI wasnt  made  clear.  I dont agree 
that the point Miss P refers to means I ought to automatically uphold her complaint about  
PPI being added to a store card.
In any event, I have to decide  what  is fair and reasonable in the particular facts of Miss Ps 
case. Those facts include that in my view Miss P wouldve likely taken the PPI even if shed 
been given enough information (for example  about  its cost and the interest).  So in my view 
Miss P is already in the same position she wouldve been in had everything happened as it 
shouldve. With that in mind, I dont  think it would be fair and reasonable to award 
compensation and put her into a better position than that.
Miss P says the mis-selling of the PPI on cards like hers was systemic  and shes said 
shes aware of someone else sold PPI at the same  store who wasnt  in employment (so 
wouldnt even have  been eligible for cover).  But Miss P was eligible for the policy  and what 
Miss P has said about the possibility or fact of other policies having  been mis-sold doesnt 
persuade me to uphold her complaint, taking into account the specific evidence for her case. 
So, having  considered all Miss Ps points, I still dont think I should uphold  her complaint. 
Im grateful  to Miss P for her prompt  and detailed responses to all our inquiries.
Ref: DRN44463273my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4446327