K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained to us about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold to her 
in 1998. Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz) has taken responsibility for this sale so Ill refer to 
Allianz throughout this decision.  
background
Mrs S was sold the policy when she opened a personal reserve  account.  One of our 
adjudicators looked at this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Mrs S disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  the reasons  for this.
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the policy. Based on Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time, it looks like she met these rules.  So I think  shed have been able 
to claim on the policy if she needed  to.
Next Ive looked at whether Allianz made  it sufficiently clear to Mrs S that she had a choice 
about whether  or not to take out the policy. Mrs S has told us that she didnt know  she had 
PPI and nobody  asked her if she wanted  it.
The amount  of information  thats available about  this sale is limited, but given that it took 
place a long time ago this isnt unusual. In addition, given that over 20 years have passed, 
its obviously possible Mrs Ss recollections of the sale are not particularly strong.  So Ive 
had to take this into account in considering my decision.
From what  we know about the way in which this type of policy  was sold around  the time,  
Mrs S would have been offered a choice  about  whether to have it. Ive considered the 
possibility that someone  added  the PPI to the account without asking Mrs S. However, 
having considered all the information thats available, Im not persuaded that its most  likely 
this is what happened, and so I wont be upholding the complaint on this basis.  
Next, Allianz and Mrs S told us that it didnt recommend  the PPI to her, so it wasnt required 
to make sure it was suitable.  But Allianz was required  to give Mrs S enough information 
about the policy so she could make  a decision for herself about whether or not to take it out. 
I've looked  at the possibility that Allianz  didnt  give Mrs S clear enough information about the 
costs, benefits, main exclusions and restrictions on the policy.  But the cost was 65p per 
£100 of the outstanding monthly balance and for this premium the policy would have  paid 
out a benefit of 15% of the outstanding balance, until the balance  was paid off. Mrs S told us 
she was entitled  to sick pay and redundancy pay for six months.  But the PPI would have 
paid out for a longer  period if she was too ill to work or was made unemployed. Therefore on 
balance, I dont think having better  information about  this would have  put her off buying 
the policy.
Ref: DRN41520512Its also possible Allianz didnt point out the main things the PPI didnt cover.  But given her 
circumstances, I dont  think  Mrs S wouldnt have been affected  by any of those things. I dont 
think having better information about this would have dissuaded her from buying  the policy. 
So overall, I wont be requiring Allianz to put anything  right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4152051