K821x#15complaint
Ms S has complained about  two personal loans AvantCredit of UK, LLC,  trading as 
AvantCredit, provided to her. She says the loans were unaffordable  and so AvantCredit 
shouldnt have lent to her.
background
Ms Ss first loan with AvantCredit  was taken out in December  2014. It was for £1,000 to be 
repaid over 12 months,  the monthly repayments  were £98.54  and the total amount to be 
repaid was £1,182.50.
Ms Ss second loan with AvantCredit was taken out in November 2015. It was for £4,500  to 
be repaid over 3 years, the monthly  repayments  were £212.29 and the total amount to be 
repaid was £7,642.38.
In its final response,  AvantCredit agreed to uphold Ms Ss complaint in relation to the first 
loan, but not the second loan.  Ms S wasnt  happy with AvantCredits  response,  so referred 
her complaint to this service. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought  
AvantCredit had acted irresponsibly in lending to Ms S for both loans. AvantCredit disagreed 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and guidance say that businesses must act responsibly when lending to 
consumers. Businesses must  consider the potential for the lending  to adversely impact  the 
consumers financial situation and the consumers ability to make the repayments as they fall 
due over the life of the agreement.
Businesses must assess whether the consumer could  afford  to meet  the repayments in a 
sustainable manner,  without incurring financial difficulties or significant adverse 
consequences. This means the consumer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments.
As AvantCredit has already upheld Ms Ss complaint in relation to the first loan, I will only 
consider the second loan here.
As part of its affordability checks, AvantCredit  asked  Ms S for details of her monthly income  
and outgoings.  It also carried  out a credit  search to check  Ms Ss credit history and 
outstanding debt and carried out a check to confirm her income was correct.
The credit check confirmed Ms Ss income was around £1,450  and Ms S gave her monthly 
living expenses as £600. So, on the face of it, the monthly repayments for this loan of 
£212.29 were affordable  for Ms S.
But AvantCredit was required to establish whether Ms S could sustainably make  the 
repayments, not just whether they were affordable based on a strict pounds and pence  
calculation. And the credit  search showed Ms Ss level of debt had increased by more  than 
Ref: DRN46407502£5,000 in the last 12 months,  she was using 92% of her available  credit limits and that this 
percentage had increased in the last 3 months.  And the credit search also showed Ms S had 
taken out 6 short-term  loans, worth over £1,300, in the last 3 months and that shed made  
repayments of nearly £1,000 to short-term  loans in the past month.
So Ms S had used  most of her available credit and was increasingly relying on her credit, 
which can both be signs that a consumer is having difficulty  managing  their finances. And 
Ms S had also taken  out a number of short-term loans over a short  period of time, which  can 
suggest a consumer is struggling financially.
Given this information,  I dont think it was reasonable for AvantCredit to conclude that Ms S 
could afford  to meet the repayments for this loan in a sustainable  manner. I think  
AvantCredit should have questioned why Ms S was relying so much  on her available credit 
and short-term loans  and why she wanted to borrow a further £4,500 if she genuinely had 
the disposable income her stated monthly income and outgoings suggested  she did.
So I dont  think AvantCredit reasonably  assessed the information it had about Ms Ss 
financial situation and so I dont think it has acted responsibly when  providing  this loan to 
her.
And if AvantCredit had reasonably assessed  the information, I think  it would have found it 
was unlikely Ms S could  afford to sustainably make the repayments. So it wouldnt  have  
given her this loan.
AvantCredit has said the credit search also showed Ms Ss accounts were all up-to-date  with 
no arrears or defaults. And that she had no active short-term  loans, and the same number of 
accounts had been opened in recent  months as had been closed, so Ms S was managing 
her accounts.
But as Ms Ss level of debt was increasing  and shed been taking out a number of recent  
short-term loans for a significant amount, I dont think it was reasonable to conclude  that her 
financial situation was sustainable. And I dont agree that one account being closed before 
another is opened suggests Ms S was able to manage her accounts, as she could still have 
been relying on newer borrowing to repay  older borrowing.
AvantCredit has also said Ms S repaid the loan in line with her repayment schedule  with no 
signs of financial difficulties. But Ms S says she had to borrow  from friends to make her 
repayments, so I dont agree that her making  the repayments on time shows she could 
afford the loan or that AvantCredit reasonably assessed her circumstances.
So I still dont think AvantCredit reasonably  assessed Ms Ss ability to sustainably make  the 
repayments or acted  responsibly in providing this loan to her.
As Ms S ending up paying interest and charges on loans she shouldnt have been  given,  I 
think she has lost out as a result  of what AvantCredit did wrong.
Ref: DRN46407503putting things right
AvantCredit shouldnt  have given Ms S either of the two loans. It should  therefore:
a)add together  the total of the repayments made  by Ms S towards interest, fees and 
charges on both loans.
b)calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Ms S which  were  
considered as part of a), calculated from the date Ms S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
c)then refund the amounts calculated  in a) and b)
d)remove any adverse information  recorded  on Ms Ss credit file in relation to both 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires AvantCredit  to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Ms S a certificate 
showing how much tax it has deducted, if Ms S asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Ms Ss complaint. AvantCredit  of UK, LLC, trading as AvantCredit, should  put things 
right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4640750