K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains on behalf of his limited company, which I will call B. Briefly, Mr C complains 
that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to update Bs online  banking to reflect Bs change of name.
(I am aware that Mr C has made  a separate complaint on Bs behalf, about the closure of Bs 
accounts, but I will not address that complaint in this decision.)
background
In this decision, I am only looking  at Bs complaint about its HSBC online banking. So far as 
that issue is concerned,  everyone agrees that B banked with HSBC in 2016. They  also 
agree that, again in 2016, Mr C contacted HSBC to let it know  that B had changed its name 
and to ask it to amend all its records accordingly.
HSBC told us:
In 2016, it changed  Bs name  everywhere except  the welcome screen  for Bs online 
banking. In all other  places  including Bs bank statements   Bs new name  was 
displayed.
Mr C could have changed the information on the welcome screen at any time himself.
Mr C gave us a detailed  explanation of the reasons for his complaint. Briefly, he was not 
satisfied that HSBC had fulfilled its obligations  as a holder  of data, and that it did not properly 
keep him or his company  informed about the way it was processing  data.
Two of our investigators considered Bs complaint about the online banking issue, but 
neither of them recommended that HSBC  pay any compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this individual complaint. 
Mr C has made several complaints against HSBC, both on his own behalf and on behalf of 
B. I know he would like me to consider all of his and his companys complaints against 
HSBC in the round. But I cant do that.
I can see that another ombudsman has already explained why the Financial Ombudsman 
Service has no power to consider some of the complaints Mr C has made on his own behalf.  
I cant look at those  complaints either, for the reasons given by my colleague.
I can look at the separate complaint Mr C has made about the closure of Bs accounts, but I 
have addressed that in a separate decision.
Mr C is clearly very unhappy with HSBCs overall behaviour. The relationship between them 
appears to have broken down entirely, and I note that B no longer banks with HSBC. But 
looking only at the issues in this individual complaint  about Bs online banking   I do not 
consider that it would be appropriate for me to order  HSBC to pay any compensation to B.
Ref: DRN42160872I accept that the welcome screen on Bs online banking displayed Bs old company name. 
But that was not visible to anyone outside of B and HSBC. I am not satisfied that the issue  
caused B to suffer any financial loss.
As a limited  company, it is not possible for B to suffer distress. I appreciate  that Mr C says 
he has felt personally  distressed by the circumstances that have led to this complaint, but 
thats not something I can consider.  HSBCs customer in this matter was B, Mr Cs limited  
company. Limited  companies are not capable of suffering distress,  but they can suffer 
inconvenience.
Here, whilst I appreciate Mr C strongly  disagrees  with me, I consider that the inconvenience 
B suffered was minimal.  The issues over the welcome message did not prevent B from 
having access to its account, and they could not have  caused any confusion  for Bs 
customers. I do not think it would be fair for me to order HSBC  to pay B financial 
compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I do not require HSBC  UK Bank Plc to 
do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C, on Bs 
behalf, to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2020
Laura Colman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4216087