K820x#14complaint
T, a limited company, complains that TSB Bank plc delayed an important payment causing  
disruption and wasted time.
background
T wanted  to send an international payment to a new payee for around 620 US Dollars. The 
payment was blocked by TSB.  And when the director called he could  not answer security 
questions. He went to a branch and was unhappy  with the way the fraud  team spoke to him. 
T was told that the payment  had been  unblocked but this was not correct  and he had to go 
back again. T could still not make the payment. And on the third occasion he contacted TSB 
about this he wasnt told that the payment would only be unblocked  for a limited time.  He 
made the payment from a different account. TSB has already paid Ts out of pocket 
expenses and £350 for the inconvenience. T did not agree that this was sufficient.
Our investigator did not recommend that TSB do anything  more than it had offered to. He 
said that TSB had its own fraud prevention and security measures. The errors had come 
when T had been  told the payment had been  unblocked. And also on one occasion when T 
was not told that this would only last for a short period. TSB accepted  that when the director  
spoke to the fraud team from a branch he was not provided with an acceptable level of 
service. T was able to reschedule work planned  for that day and smooth  things over with its 
new supplier. There  had not been a loss of business. Our investigator said he was only 
looking the circumstances of this complaint  not any past problems  and he thought  that 
the compensation was reasonable.
T did not agree.  The offer was not sufficient  for the director  having to reschedule a days  
work to a Sunday.  He said that if this happened  to any members of staff at TSB theyd 
expect to be compensated  for this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The broad facts of what happened are not in dispute. T tried to make  a payment four times 
but was unsuccessful.  It made the payment in another way. It had clearly  arranged to make  
the payment very close to the date goods were  to be shipped from abroad. By the time the 
payment had reached the supplier T says the ship had left and T paid more for the goods  to 
be sent by air  presumably then arriving much more quickly. TSB accepts that Ts 
bookkeeper could not work  when  it was uncertain  if the account was blocked. T has also 
explained that with effort it was able to avoid any lasting reputational damage  with the new 
supplier. And then to reschedule work  for a client  albeit onto a Sunday.
TSB is entitled to set its own processes  to guard against fraud. That does mean  that 
sometimes as here an initial payment is blocked for further checks  even though  it turns out 
to be a genuine one. But its processes are not something we regulate and so I cant say its 
made a mistake generally in applying them. 
TSB accepts that the phone number it gave  when the payment was blocked was incorrect.  
When the director called a different number he could not answer questions about  the 
account and again these  were legitimate security measures. So a branch visit did seem  
Ref: DRN40800622inevitable. Even though  hed gone to a branch and been put through  to the fraud team  he 
was dealt with poorly.  And for example  was asked why he was calling up. The main issue  
though is that TSB told T the issue was resolved. That was not correct  and three more  
unsuccessful attempts  were made  to make the payment.
The expenses TSB has agreed to pay are £130.79 for air freight; £120 for extra book 
keeping costs and £50 for travel to a branch and other  expenses.
As our investigator says T has not had a loss of business as a result of what happened.  The 
issue is inconvenience. And I need to take into account that T is a separate  legal entity to the 
director. So I can only consider the effect  here on T. And a limited company cannot suffer 
distress. Having done so Im afraid that I find that the compensation already paid including  
£350 for inconvenience is a reasonable response  to what happened. So I wont  be asking 
TSB to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that TSB Bank  plc need take 
no further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4080062