K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says PDL Finance  Limited, trading as Mr Lender,  irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about four loans Mr Lender provided to Mrs M between May 2014  and 
October 2015. Mrs Ms borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate taken 
outLoan TypeDate  
RepaidLoan amountHighest 
Instalment
1 07/05/2014 payday 25/07/2014 £300.00 £405.00
2 28/07/2014 instalment 23/01/2015 £600.00 £280.00
3 29/01/2015 instalment 06/05/2015 £750.00 £293.00
4 02/10/2015 instalment 12/01/2017 £500.00 £205.60
A number  of adjudicators have looked at this case.  Most recently our adjudicator  looked  at 
all the latest evidence and information on file and upheld Mrs Ms complaint about loans 3 
and 4 and thought theses  loans shouldnt have been given. Mr Lender disagreed  with this 
latest opinion  and so the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN43260892There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mrs M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
In the most recent opinion our adjudicator  felts loans 1 and 2 shouldnt  be upheld,  and Mrs M 
seems to have accepted  this. So as these loans are no longer in dispute, I havent 
considered these in my decision. However,  I have kept these loans in mind  when looking at 
Mrs Ms overall lending history with Mr Lender. 
Mr Lender says it carried out an income,  expenditure  and credit check before lending  any of 
the loans to Mrs M. And I think this approach was reasonable and proportionate for Mrs Ms 
first two loans. I say this because for loan 1 Mrs M was required to only make  one monthly  
payment and the amount  she was required to pay seemed affordable  in relation to her 
income and expenses for a one off payment. I also think these checks were  proportionate for 
loan 2 because  Mrs M had then decided to switch to an instalment loan, which  allowed her 
to make the payments over a number of months. And looking at the maximum amount she 
was liable to pay per month under  the agreement, I think this was affordable  - and being 
early in the lending relationship there was nothing to suggest  a reason to do any further 
checks. 
However, I think that at the time Mrs M was applying for loans 3 and 4 Mr Lender ought to 
have completed a full review of Mrs Ms circumstances before agreeing to lend. I say this 
because Mrs M asked  for loan 3 just days after paying off loan 2 and the amount she 
requested to borrow for loan 3 had increased from loan 2 and was more than double of 
loan 1. Mrs M seems to have had some difficulty repaying loan 1 as she rolled over twice  
before paying  off this loan. And at the time of applying for loan 3 Mrs M had been  in debt to 
Mr Lender for around 8 months.  While this may not be enough to suggest  Mr Lender  
shouldnt have lend Mrs M this loan so early  in their relationship, I think this is enough 
evidence to prompt a responsible lender to complete  further checks  into her financial 
situation before agreeing to lend Mrs M loan 3 or any subsequent loans.
A proportionate  check of Mrs Ms circumstances for loans  3 and 4 wouldve most likely  
shown that Mrs M had a number of payday loans  with other providers and was regularly 
overdrawn across her current banking accounts. Ive also seen that Mrs M was often 
gambling large amounts of money. 
Ref: DRN43260893This evidence suggests Mrs M was struggling with her finances and its unlikely she would 
be able to repay her loans  sustainably. Gambling is highly likely to lead to debt. And with a 
debt situation  arising  out of, or contributed by, gambling, then a responsible  lender ought  not 
to have lent to Mrs M further  in her situation.  
Overall, I think its clear  that this is someone  who is not coping well with their finances and 
potentially becoming  reliant on short-terms  loans. And that a properly carried  our affordability 
assessment was likely  to lead to a responsible lender to conclude that loan 3  or any 
subsequent loans - were  not affordable for an applicant  in this situation.
So for these reasons Im also upholding the complaint about loans 3 and 4 Mr Lender should  
put things right.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs M paid on loans  3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 3 and 4 from Mrs Ms credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Ms complaint. PDL Finance 
Limited should put things right as outlined  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4326089