K820x#14complaint
Miss M and Mrs M complain that Aviva Insurance Limiteds contractors stole cash  from them  
whilst carrying  out repairs at their home  as a result of their home insurance claim for 
subsidence. 
background
A few years ago, Miss M and Mrs M made  claim under  their home  insurance  policy  for 
subsidence. At the start of 2018,  Avivas contractors  attended  their home  to finish  off the 
decorative repairs. Miss M and Mrs M were on holiday  at the time and the contractors had a 
key to gain access.  When  they returned from holiday, Miss M and Mrs M noticed that a 
camera and £2,500 in cash was missing  from their home. They  reported the theft to the 
police and contacted Aviva six weeks  after the contractors were  last at the property. 
Aviva agreed to pay for the camera as part of the subsidence claim  rather than log a 
separate theft claim and collect a separate policy excess   as a gesture of goodwill. Initially  it 
told Miss M and Mrs M that there  was a cash limit on the policy of £500. During a second  call 
about the theft, it said that whilst the cash limit on the policy was £500,  there  was no cover 
for the theft because thered been  no force and violence  used (as required  by the policy  
terms) to gain access. Aviva said it couldnt comment any further on the theft of the cash 
because it formed part of a police investigation. It said its contractors had fully complied  with 
the police  investigation. 
Aviva said that it shouldve told Miss M and Mrs M during the first phone call that there was 
no cover  at all for the theft of the cash because no force and violence had been used to gain 
access. It offered  them compensation  of £100 for any inconvenience and distress it had 
caused them. It also said that theyd benefitted from the fact that the camera  had been paid 
out under  the subsidence claim  because  this meant  a second excess hadnt been collected.  
Unhappy with Avivas  findings, Miss M and Mrs M complained to this service. Our 
adjudicator looked into their complaint  but didnt recommend that it was upheld. The 
complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Miss M and Mrs M I dont think this complaint should  be upheld. Ill explain  
why. 
Its not in dispute  that there  was no force or violence used to gain access  to the house. That 
being the case, the theft cover provided by Miss M and Mrs Ms policy doesnt engage: both 
must have  been  used  if it is. As the theft isnt covered by the policy it follows  that I dont think 
that Aviva  has unreasonably  declined to consider the loss of the cash  under this section of 
the policy. It is worth stating that even if the policy did provide cover for the theft there is a 
policy limit for cash and thats  £500. So even if the theft was covered by the policy,  the most 
Miss M and Mrs M wouldve received is £400  (£500 less the policy  excess  of £100). The 
same is true if Miss M and Mrs M had had personal possessions cover  under the policy.  
That too wouldve  been subject to the policy limit for cash. 
Ref: DRN41277962I can see that Miss M and Mrs M reported the theft to the police and that it has conducted  an 
investigation. Its not clear  to me whether that investigation is now over.  But Aviva has said 
that if the police  conclude  that their contractors  have a case  to answer then it will readily 
review its decision and reconsider  compensating Miss M and Mrs M for the stolen cash. That 
seems reasonable  to me. The contractors are acting as Avivas agents and if its proved they 
have been involved  in wrongdoing then its Avivas responsibility to compensate Miss M and 
Mrs M. But at present, theres no evidence which shows the contractors stole £2,500 from 
Miss M and Mrs M. That being the case, it wouldnt  be reasonable for me to make  Aviva pay 
them this amount. 
I know Miss M and Mrs M think that if Aviva accepted responsibility for the camera  then it 
means it must accept  a theft had occurred but I cant agree. Aviva has paid for the camera  
as a gesture of goodwill  only and hasnt admitted liability for any theft. 
Ive thought about the shortcomings  in service Aviva provided  to Miss M and Mrs M when 
they first phoned to report that the cash and camera had gone.  Aviva has offered to pay 
them compensation of £100 in recognition of any distress and inconvenience  it caused them.  
I think thats reasonable in the circumstances  and is in line with similar awards made by this 
service. Aviva has said that Miss M and Mrs M should contact it directly  when our 
involvement is at an end and it will make the payment. That seems  fair to me. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mrs M 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4127796