K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about delays and communication when he applied  for a bank account with 
Ulster Bank Ltd.
background
In August  2018,  Mr O applied for a bank  account  with Ulster Bank. He confirmed his 
passcode and sent off the paperwork.  But he explained that he didnt hear anything  until he 
received a text in September  2018 asking him to contact the bank. He did so but the agent 
he spoke to said they were unsure why he was asked  to make contact. Two days later,  Mr O 
received a text to say his application  had expired so it couldnt continue.
Mr O complained, originally asking for £75 compensation and removal  of any searches on 
his credit file, or for the account to be opened. Ulster  apologised for the confusing  
information and said it would request all searches were removed. It also paid him a total of 
£80 compensation  (£30 for the original misunderstanding and a further £50 for delays in 
responding and removing  the credit search).
Our adjudicator felt Ulster  Bank did enough  to put things right so she didnt  uphold  this 
complaint. She also explained that Ulster Bank isnt obliged  to accept all applications to open 
accounts, and that it had seen Mr O had adverse history  when  searching  its own records  so 
it wouldnt have accepted the application on that basis.
Mr O disagreed and felt he should  be given  further  compensation, so he asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Its not disputed  that Ulster Bank  could have communicated with Mr O better about his 
application. When he was asked to call the bank,  it could have explained that it was going to 
decline his application.  Instead Mr O was told he didnt need  to call and so its 
understandable that he then believed his application  would continue. I imagine it was 
frustrating to then be told his application  has expired. Especially as this was also incorrect 
information  his application was going  to be declined.
But Ulster Bank recognised that it had made  errors, and Mr O is now aware  of the reasons 
his application  didnt get accepted. And Ulster  Bank wasnt  obligated  to give Mr O the bank  
account  so there was always a chance that this account application  wouldnt be 
successful. As such, I think  the £80 compensation for the trouble and upset caused is fair 
and reasonable.  So I wont be asking Ulster Bank to pay Mr O anything more.
I can also see that Ulster Bank has requested  credit reference agencies to remove the 
searches it made against Mr O, and Im pleased that Mr O has confirmed these searches 
have been removed. So I think Ulster  Bank has done everything it needs to put things right. 
Mr O has mentioned that it felt that Ulster Bank  shouldve done additional checks  when 
deciding whether to accept  his application. But it checked the information  it had on Mr O 
which flagged up adverse history. As this is what influenced its decision to offer Mr O an 
Ref: DRN40579312account, I dont  think  it needed  to make  any additional checks. Ive already explained  that 
Ulster Bank doesnt  have to accept all applications for accounts,  and on this occasion  it 
decided not to. The errors here all concerned the communication it made with Mr O, and I 
think its done enough to put this right. So I wont be asking Ulster Bank to do anything 
further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4057931