K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Openwork Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for 
his mortgage.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 8 February  2019.  A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
that this PPI policy had been mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
8 March 2019. But neither  Mr H nor Openwork have sent me anything  new to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have  sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having  reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before and for the same reasons  that if 
Openwork had given  Mr H suitable advice,  or if it had given him clear enough information 
about the policys terms for self-employed people, then its most  likely that Mr H wouldnt 
have bought this policy. And so I think this PPI policy was mis-sold.
putting things right
Openwork should  put Mr H in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Openwork should:
Pay Mr H back the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Openwork can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Openwork  to take off tax from this interest. Openwork  must give 
Mr H a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. Mr H can claim  back  the tax 
if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN47006612my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Hs 
complaint about  Openwork Limited.
Openwork Limited  should put things  right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN47006613COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr H says Openwork  Limited  mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy for his 
mortgage.
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  taken out with a mortgage in 2007.  It was sold by Openwork 
through an appointed representative, and it covered Mr H in case  he was off work sick or lost his job. 
Mr H paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium.
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.  
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think Mr Hs PPI policy was mis-sold here  Ill explain why.
Openwork recommended the policy  to Mr H, so it had to check it was right for him. It also had to give 
him information about the PPI that was clear,  fair, and not misleading. But I dont think  the policy  was 
right for Mr H, and I dont think Openwork gave him clear enough  information about it.
Mr H was self-employed. And the policy included conditions which made  it harder for self-employed 
people to claim  unemployment benefit.  It said that in order to be considered  unemployed as a self-
employed person, the following would have to be the case:
The business you work for has totally and permanently  ceased to trade due to circumstances  entirely 
beyond your control, or the control of any co-director or partner in the business.
Ceased to trade is defined as: permanently  stopped trading, been wound  up or put into the hands 
of a registered insolvency  practitioner.
In my view,  this made it significantly harder for Mr H to have claimed  for unemployment compared  to 
an employed  person.
Most businesses have  up and down periods.  Mr H may have found himself in a situation where he 
didnt have enough coming in to meet his reasonable costs, or where he had to temporarily shut 
down. In that sort of situation, this PPI policy wouldnt cover  him, and he couldve ended  up in serious 
trouble with his mortgage, despite paying for a policy that was supposed to protect  him. And it would 
be onerous to make him permanently stop trading and close all of his accounts just so he could claim. 
These terms meant that if Mr H claimed for unemployment, hed never  be able to get the business 
going again if trade improved.  I think thats an onerous requirement to make, especially when 
compared to the terms for people who are not self-employed.
Ive looked carefully at the records of Openworks advice, and I cant see any evidence  that it thought  
about how the terms for self-employed people affected  Mr H, or that it advised him around this. And 
I havent seen any evidence that it brought these significant  terms to his attention at the time of the 
sale.
Ref: DRN47006614I think  that if Openwork had given Mr H suitable advice, or if it had given him clear enough information  
about the policys terms for self-employed people, then its most likely that Mr H wouldnt have bought 
this policy.  So I think Mr H has probably  lost out because of what  Openwork  did wrong.
what I propose Openwork  should do
Openwork should put Mr H in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy  should 
be cancelled, if it hasnt been  cancelled  already, and Openwork should:
Pay Mr H back the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  he paid it until he gets it back. The rate of interest 
is 8% simple a year.
If Mr H made  a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Openwork can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Openwork  to take off tax from this interest. Openwork must give Mr H a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. Mr H can claim  back  the tax if he doesnt  pay 
tax.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I plan to uphold  Mr Hs complaint,  and to direct Openwork Limited to 
put things right in the way I set out above.
Please could  Openwork and Mr H send me any more information or comments to look at by 8 March  
2019. After that, Ill issue my final decision.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4700661