K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
between 1992  and 2000. Ms C says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Lloyds cant be certain when the PPI was sold but has assumed it was sold when the 
credit card was taken out in 1992.  Lloyds  has given us a statement from 2000,  which  is 
the earliest available statement and it a shows PPI was already  on the account  its 
likely the policy was added sometime between 1992  and 2000.  So Ive looked  at the 
complaint on this basis but I think it was most  probably sold when Ms C applied for the 
credit card.
I dont have any notes  of a meeting or telephone  conversation, so I dont know what was 
discussed. And Ive not seen any paperwork from the time thats been signed  by Ms C. 
But based  on what Lloyds  and Ms C have told us, along with what I know generally 
about how Lloyds  usually sold PPI at the time, on balance  I think  Lloyds made it clear 
that Ms C didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to take it out  even if 
understandably she doesnt  recall  that now, many  years  later..
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms C so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms C.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms C because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms C about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Ms C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms C has said but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN49323252my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Ms C any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4932325