K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained about the way Covea Insurance plc (Covea) handled a claim he made on 
his car insurance policy. 
background
In March 2019 Mr M was involved in an accident while driving.  Mr M made  a claim with his 
car insurer (Covea) which said his car was a total loss. So it said it would offer to pay Mr M 
the market value of his vehicle. When calculating the market  value, Covea  said it considered 
four industry-recognised motor trade  guides. Following some discussion with Mr M, Covea 
said it would  offer him £13,114 for his vehicle, which it said reflected the highest guide  price, 
as a gesture of goodwill.  
Mr M said this wasnt enough as his car had higher specification parts than a standard  model 
 including  fender  extensions, side and rear skirts,  an end pipe cover, and 22 inch alloy 
wheels. Covea considered this and said these parts had been  fitted  as part of a non-
manufacturer kit. So it said there were no guides  available for it to use. But looking online it 
said itd found  a similar vehicle for £14,990 with lower mileage. So Coveas  engineer 
recommended raising its valuation by £1,000  bringing the total to £14,114.
Covea also said Mr M hadnt disclosed two previous non-fault  claims. And it said if it had 
known of these  claims,  it wouldve increased  Mr Ms premium by 18.24%. So it said it would 
be fair to deduct 18.24% (£2,574.39) from the total settlement. Covea also reduced  the total 
settlement by £4,798.76 to account for the cost of lost salvage as Mr M had decided  to retain 
his vehicle. So taking  into account these reductions  and Mr Ms excess of £525, Covea paid 
£6,215.85 to Mr M.
Mr M felt this was unfair so he brought a complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint and he said Covea had offered a fair settlement based on the available  
motor trade  guides.  And he said it had made its deductions fairly,  taking  into account the 
relevant rules related to disclosing information.
Mr M disagreed and said his car was a limited  edition so was worth more  than Covea had 
offered. He also said hed disclosed  the two previous claims to his broker.  As Mr M remained 
unhappy, the case has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Mr Ms complaint relates to multiple  issues. So to keep  things simple, Ive addressed each of 
his complaint points  separately below in turn. 
the market value offered by Covea 
Mr Ms policy says in the event of a total loss, Covea wont pay more than the market value 
at the time of the loss.
Ref: DRN45235412In these types of cases our approach  is to check the relevant recognised trade guides and 
consider whether an insurer has made  a reasonable offer thats in line with them. Typically 
guides will be more persuasive than adverts as theyre based on research of nationwide 
selling prices. By comparison,  adverts  dont account  for any negotiations over prices.
Covea said it checked four separate trade  guides  when  deciding a market  value for Mr Ms 
car. It said Glass gave a valuation of £12,410, CAPs £12,950, Parkers £12,810, and 
Cazana £13,114. Having checked Im satisfied these valuations are accurate reflections of 
the guide prices.
The guide  prices are averages  and may vary from place to place. But I think  its fair to use 
them to assess whether Coveas offer is reasonable. Where theres variation between 
guides, we may decide to discount  a value if its out of line with the others.  Or if the values 
are reasonably similar, we might  consider  an average  of all the values is a fair offer. 
In this case Covea  agreed  to pay Mr M the highest  value  produced  by the trade guides. 
Coveas engineer said on review of the details of the added kit, and looking at a similar 
vehicle on a popular car sales  website, that the valuation should  be increased  by £1,000. 
This brought  the settlement to a total of £14,114. Mr M feels  strongly that these prices  arent  
accurate, but many  extras dont often add to the value of a car. And taking into account  the 
information hes provided, Im not persuaded the extras added to his vehicle increase the 
value as hes described. So taking into account everything Ive been provided with, Im 
satisfied Coveas valuation for the vehicle is fair and reasonable. 
Mr M chose  to retain his vehicle so Covea deducted  £4,798.76 from its valuation  the value 
it said it wouldve gained from its salvage agents.  Covea provided  a contract to support this 
figure so Im satisfied it has acted  fairly  by making  this deduction. 
non-disclosure of previous non-fault  claims
Covea said it became aware of two previous claims that werent  disclosed when the policy 
was taken out. Mr M says he did make  this known when the policy was sold.
The Consumer Insurance (Declaration and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) says it is for 
Covea to show Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation and that 
it wouldnt have offered him cover at all if he hadnt made the misrepresentation. Or that it 
wouldve done so on different terms. And if it can show this then theres been a qualifying 
misrepresentation for which  CIDRA would provide it with certain remedies.
Mr M took out his insurance with a broker  Company A. And Ive seen a copy of his 
statement of insurance  which  asks if he or anyone that may drive his car, had any motoring 
accidents or claims within the past five years. This was answered no. Given the 
documents significance  I think its likely  Mr M has seen this document. In addition,  the form 
includes a lot of detail about  him, so it seems  likely  this was completed either by him or 
during a discussion with his broker. So Im satisfied that Covea has shown Mr M didnt take 
reasonable care when  this application  was completed.
Ref: DRN45235413Under CIDRA, in this situation Covea can settle a claim  proportionately   which  it says its 
done in this case. Covea  said Mr Ms premiums represented 81.76%  of what  he wouldve 
otherwise been  charged had it known his claims history at the start of the policy.  So it 
reduced the value  of his claim proportionately.  Ive reviewed information provided by 
Coveas underwriting  team which supports this calculation. So Im satisfied its acted  fairly  by 
making this deduction.  
Mr M thinks that two non-fault claims shouldnt affect  his premium given that the incidents 
werent his fault and he had no control  over them. But I must explain to Mr M that insurance  
is essentially an assessment of risk. When deciding  how much  to charge for a policy, 
insurers will make an assessment  on the likelihood that a policyholder will make  a claim, and 
how much  they might  have to pay out for those.
Typically insurers will make this decision taking into account a number of factors including  
whether someone  has made a claim previously. So it follows  that Covea would want to be 
notified of any claims  (non-fault  or otherwise) when assessing a customers risk. In any case, 
this is the commercial decision of an insurer and its not my place to comment on these 
decisions  providing  it applies  these decisions fairly  and consistently. And as Ive explained, 
Im satisfied that it has.
Overall Im satisfied Covea has given Mr M the fair market value for his car under the policy. 
And I dont  find any of the deductions its made to be unreasonable  for the reasons  Ive 
given. So Im not directing Covea to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4523541