K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard,  wont refund to him the 
money that hes claimed for the issues he experienced  when a container of his possessions 
was being shipped overseas. 
background
Mr M used  his Barclaycard credit  card in July 2018  to pay £4,495 to a removals company for 
it to arrange for his possessions to be shipped overseas (and he paid it an additional  £150  in 
August 2018). He wasnt contacted by the removals companys  local contractor when the 
container arrived in the overseas port so there was a delay in him receiving his possessions 
and he was charged additional costs  of £3,836 by the local contractor.  
He claimed the following amounts from Barclaycard under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974: 70% of the £4,645 that hed paid the removals company; the £3,836  that 
hed paid to the local contractor; £431.45 for emergency  replacement items; £600 for his 
legal costs; and goodwill  compensation. Barclaycard  didnt accept his claim so he 
complained to this service. The removals  company has stopped trading.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She felt that the 
removals companys local contractor caused  a considerable  delay in Mr M receiving his 
possessions, which was a major  breach of contract,  and she said that the service provided 
by Barclaycard could  have been  better. She didnt feel that it would be fair to ask 
Barclaycard to refund Mr Ms legal costs  but she recommend that Barclaycard should:  refund 
70% of the amount that he paid to the removals company and the £3,836 that he paid to the 
local contractor; reimburse him £300  towards  the emergency replacement  items; add 
interest to those payments; and pay him £100 compensation for the additional stress and 
inconvenience caused by the service issues.
Mr M accepted those recommendations but Barclaycard offered to pay him the £4,645  (and 
another £601.22) that hed paid to the removals company, the £300 towards the emergency 
items and £100  compensation   and it says that interest should  be applied  from when  it 
rejected his claim in November 2018. Mr M didnt accept its offer.
my provisional decisions
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to Barclaycard  on 1 May 2020.  Mr M didnt agree with my provisional  decision  and 
provided further comments in response to it. I then issued a second provisional decision to 
Mr M and to Barclaycard on 13 July 2020.  In my second provisional decision I said as 
follows:
In his response to my provisional decision Mr M has set out the reasons why he 
considers a refund of 70% of the £4,645  that he paid the removals company is fair 
and reasonable.  He has described in detail the basis on which he agreed to pay 
£4,645 for the services, the services that he was expecting to receive, the service 
that was actually provided to him and the difficulties that that caused him. Having 
considered that information, Im now persuaded that the refund that hes claimed,  
which is 70% of the £4,645 that he paid the removals company  so an amount of 
£3,251.50, would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
Ref: DRN48863932The investigator recommended  that Barclaycard should: refund  70% of the amount 
that Mr M paid to the removals  company  and the £3,836 that he paid to the local 
contractor; reimburse him £300 towards the emergency replacement items; add 
interest to those payments; and pay him £100 compensation for the additional stress 
and inconvenience  caused by the service issues. She didnt feel that it would be fair 
to ask Barclaycard  to refund Mr Ms legal costs. Mr M accepted those 
recommendations.
Im now agreeing with the investigators  recommendation about  the proportion  of the 
payment that should be refunded to Mr M  and in my provisional  decision I said that 
I considered that Barclaycard should  also refund  the £3,836 that he paid to the local 
contractor; reimburse him £300 towards the emergency replacement items; add 
interest to those payments; and pay him £100 compensation for the additional stress 
and inconvenience  caused by the service issues.
As that outcome was accepted by Mr M, Im not persuaded that it would now be fair 
or reasonable for me to require Barclaycard to pay him more than he has previously 
agreed to accept. 
In his response to my provisional decision Mr M has said that, if the refund on his 
claim is being set at 50%, he would like to amend his claim and include an additional 
£3,078.71 of essential purchases. He also says that, given the very substantial 
additional burden placed on him by Barclaycard and its delays in responding to his 
claim, he doesnt think that £100  is a reasonable compensation level and he would 
be prepared to accept  £400. He also sets out why he considers that he should be 
reimbursed for his legal  costs.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service and try to resolve complaints by 
customers about financial businesses by considering whether what  the business has 
done is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. It shouldnt normally be necessary 
for a customer to get legal  advice before making  a complaint to this service and I 
consider that Mr M could  have made his complaint to this service without getting 
legal advice. So I dont  consider that it would be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Barclaycard to reimburse Mr M for any of the legal 
costs that hes incurred.
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances  for Barclaycard 
to take the actions that were recommended by the investigator  and which were 
accepted by Mr M.
So subject to any further representations by Mr M or Barclaycard, my second provisional  
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint. Mr M has accepted  that provisional 
decision and Barclaycard has confirmed that it hasnt got anything further to add and will 
await the Final Decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Mr M has accepted my second  
provisional decision and Barclaycard has provided no further  comments  in response to it, I 
see no reason to change that decision. 
Ref: DRN48863933my decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I order Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, to:
1.Refund to Mr M £3,251.50 - which is 70% of the £4,645 that he paid the removals  
company.
2.Pay £3,836  to Mr M to reimburse him for the money that he paid to the local 
contractor.
3.Pay £300 towards the cost of the emergency replacement items.
4.Pay interest on the amounts at 1 to 3 above  at an annual  rate of 8% simple from the 
date of each payment  to the date of settlement.
5.Pay £100 to Mr M to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that he was 
caused by the service  issues.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Barclaycard to deduct tax from the interest payments 
referred to above.  Barclaycard must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4886393