K820x#14Complaint
Mr T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC rejected his chargeback and claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background
Mr T paid a company  to write a dissertation for him which was delivered late and contained 
errors. He complained  and the company offered him £150 compensation. He asked the bank 
to make a chargeback.  It did so, but the company challenged the chargeback.  
The bank had originally  put the disputed sum on hold but re-credited  it to Mr Ts account  
causing him to breach his limit. This meant his card was rejected when he was shopping at a 
supermarket. The bank failed to let him know the sum had been re-credited and failed to 
return several calls.
It considered the disputed  payments  under section 75 and upheld  Mr Ts claim. There was 
some confusion and it credited his account  with a total sum of £2,641, but the disputed  sum 
was only £2,356. This meant Mr T was given an extra £285. The credits were  backdated  so 
Mr T didnt  incur any interest on the disputed sums. It also made several compensation 
payments totalling  £380 and paid £74 to cover costs he had incurred. 
Mr T brought  his complaint to this service and asked  that he be paid interest at 8%. The 
complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.  
He thought the bank  had provided a poor service  and hadnt returned  calls as promised. It 
had also made an error in a letter offering Mr T £1,500 rather than £150. However, he 
concluded that Lloyds had paid Mr T £739 in overpayments, compensation and costs which 
he considered  was a fair and reasonable response.
Mr T didnt  agree and said he wanted  to be paid interest and for the bank to apologise. He 
said he was on benefits and unable to afford food.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The bank initially made a chargeback on behalf  of Mr T. Chargeback is a process that is 
provided by the Card  Scheme, not the bank. It allows  customers to ask for a transaction  to 
be reversed if there's  a problem with the goods or services they've  paid for. There's  no 
automatic right to a chargeback.  Nor is chargeback a guaranteed method of getting a refund. 
The Card  Scheme checks the nature of the problem against the possible chargeback 
reasons to see whether the claim  will be successful. If the bank feels  that a claim won't be 
successful, they don't  have to raise a chargeback.
The merchant challenged the chargeback and it is not within the banks power to overrule  
that. The matter  can be reviewed by the Card Scheme and it can decide.  However,  the bank 
chose to consider  the claim under Section 75 and decided to uphold  it. I appreciate  the bank 
could have chosen this route earlier, but it did uphold the claim. 
I also note that the bank  failed to call Mr T back when promised and made  an error in one of 
its letters. Generally  there was some confusion within the bank about the matter and this 
caused some delay in resolving Mr Ts claim.  
Ref: DRN48146302I can see it caused him some distress  and inconvenience and in the circumstances I would 
normally look to award a sum of compensation lower than has been paid to Mr T. As such I 
consider £739  to be more than fair. The bank also backdated the credits so Mr T wasnt 
charged any additional interest as a result of the delays. As such  I can see no grounds  for 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4814630