K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2004 alongside  a mortgage. Mr and Miss B say Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading  as 
Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Miss Bs case.
The PPI was part of a package of insurance  called a Total  Mortgage  Protection Plan which  
included PPI and life cover. Mr and Miss B havent  complained about the life cover. Because 
of this, Ive only assessed  the sale of the PPI in this decision.
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
As the PPI sale happened around  15 years  ago, Halifax doesnt now have all of the 
documents that Mr and Miss B wouldve seen at the time. Halifax has given me a copy of the 
mortgage offer, but this doesnt mention  PPI. 
The PPI was taken  out during a meeting. I dont know what wouldve been  discussed. But 
from what we know of how Halifax sold these  policies in its branches  around this time and 
the documents weve seen in the past,  its likely the paperwork  Mr and Miss B will have 
signed wouldve  made it clear enough that the PPI was optional.  I also note Mr and Miss B 
selected for the benefits to be split so Mr B had 60% and Miss B had 40%. This ties in with 
their salaries so I think its more likely they selected  the level of benefit to suit their 
circumstances.  
On balance, I think its more likely  that Halifax made  Mr and Miss B aware that they had a 
choice about buying the PPI and that they chose to take it.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Miss B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and 
they seem  to have  had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Miss B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  
Mr and Miss B worked for the same employer and both had 12 months  of sick pay available 
to them.  Theyve also provided evidence that they had around £12,000 of savings at the 
time; though  it isnt clear if these were  earmarked  for something in particular.
The PPI policy couldve covered Mr and Miss B for up to 24 months  per claim if they were  
too ill to work, had an accident or were made redundant. And that wouldve been in addition  
to their sick pay. And it meant  they could use their savings on other  essential  expenditure. I 
appreciate Mr and Miss B had other means  to make  their repayments  for a while. But I still 
Ref: DRN48691362think they couldve found the policy useful  and that it was a suitable product for them.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put them off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Miss B paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Miss B back  some  
of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Miss B now Ive issued  my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4869136