K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has refused to remove  details  of his Individual  
Voluntary Arrangement  (IVA)  from its records which he says will affect any future  credit  
applications.
background
Mr A entered into an IVA in 2011.  He says his Barclays loan was included  in that 
arrangement but it still records details of that loan and it should be removed. Mr A says hes 
been told by Barclays  staff that it will affect any future  credit  applications and that it will mean 
he can never apply  for credit from Barclays.
Barclays says it no longer reports any information about the IVA to the Credit  Reference 
Agencies (CRAs) but its entitled to keep an internal record  of what  took place and that it 
may use that information for future credit applications.
Mr A brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt think  Barclays had acted unfairly 
or made a mistake. The adjudicator thought it was up to Barclays  to decide what records  it 
kept and that it wasnt our role to tell a business how it operates.
Mr A doesnt  accept that view and says its against  the law for Barclays to keep the 
information about the IVA. And he would  like it to explain how it can justify  recording a legally 
binding decision to write off a debt as an outstanding debt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons. I realise that Mr L will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels  about  whats  happened.
As Mr A knows that as the IVA has come to an end his details will have been  removed from 
the Insolvency Register and the IVA will no longer be reported to the CRAs. The issue here 
is should Barclays continue to keep a record of what happened  on its internal systems. Ive 
come to the overall  conclusion that its up to a business to decide what  information it records 
and retains on its internal  records  and systems.  Im satisfied that those sorts of business 
decisions are for a business to make when exercising its commercial judgement and not 
something I can fairly interfere in. The adjudicator  has also explained that we are not the 
regulator of banks and building societies  in any event.  So I dont think  Barclays  has made a 
mistake by continuing to record  details of the IVA and the impact  on the loan on its internal 
records and I think its up to Barclays to decide to whom it lends to or provides credit in any 
event.
I appreciate by doing so that may affect any future  credit application Mr A may make as 
Barclays continue to record information about  the loan and the IVA. I understand Mr As 
point  that completing an IVA should  mean a fresh start being made as far as credit is 
concerned. But whilst  Im sorry to disappoint  Mr A, I cant  see that the problem  can be 
avoided. I think it would  be unfair for Barclays to remove any details about the IVA and the 
loan from its internal records but equally  that means  it may get taken into consideration in 
any credit  application.  It may be the case that Mr A decides to apply for credit with another  
provider but thats a matter for him.
Ref: DRN46991952I also appreciate that Mr A says Barclays has acted against the law and that he would like it 
to justify its actions legally. I should explain to Mr A that such a finding could only be made  
by a court and not us. Overall Im satisfied that for the reasons Ive explained that Barclays 
hasnt acted unfairly or made a mistake.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4699195