K820x#14complaint
D, a limited company,  complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) rejected a claim made on 
its commercial  motor  insurance policy. This complaint is brought by Mr M, Ds director. He 
wants the claim settled in full. 
background
Mr M reversed into a parked aircraft  on a farm. UKI initially accepted the claim but two 
weeks later rejected it, relying  on a policy exclusion.  Mr M thought  the term was ambiguous 
and unfair.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  the 
exclusion was set out in the policy and applied to the circumstances.  So she thought  UKI 
could rely on it to reject the claim. 
Mr M replied that the aircraft was parked outside the area permitted by the landowner and 
that the farm wasnt identifiable as an aerodrome and so he thought  the exclusion didnt 
apply. He thought the exclusion was ambiguous for a number of reasons.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.  UKI relied  on the following 
exclusion to decline the claim:
"Part 2- Liability to Others
What is not insured
(d) liability for loss or damage caused in a place where aircraft land park or move,  including 
the associated  service roads, refuelling  areas and ground equipment parking areas."
I think this is an unusual  exclusion in motor insurance policies Ive seen, and it is significant. 
UKI said consumers were more likely to come  into contact  with aircraft on farms, hence the 
exclusion in its policy. I think its for an insurer to decide what  risks its prepared to cover, so 
I cant say that this is unfair or unreasonable. But I would expect the exclusion to be set out 
in the policy  wording and in the summary  or Key Facts document  to ensure that its 
reasonably brought to the policyholders attention. 
The exclusion is set out on page  two of the Key Facts document and also on page six of the 
policy booklet. So I think it was sufficiently brought to Mr Ms attention for him to be made 
reasonably aware  of it. And so I cant say its unfair  for UKI to rely on the exclusion  to decline 
a claim.  
Mr Ms advisor initially agreed that the exclusion applied to the particular circumstances of 
the claim,  but he thought  it wasnt the policys intention to apply to these  events. Mr M also 
thought the exclusion was ambiguous for a number of reasons. But I disagree. 
Ref: DRN41631072I think the exclusion is sufficiently clear about where  loss or damage wouldnt be covered. I 
think its clear  that the farm had a grass strip that was used on occasion for the landing of 
small aircraft. The farm was also advertised as an airfield. The accident occurred in a place 
where the aircraft  was parked. This is unlike the advisors example of an air ambulance 
making an emergency landing on a road. So I cant see a reason  why the exclusion wouldnt 
apply in these  particular circumstances. 
Mr M said he wasnt aware  that the farm was used in this way. But I cant  see why that 
should prevent  UKI from applying the exclusion. I cant see that Mr Ms denied  reversing  into 
the parked aircraft. Hes just said that it wasnt there when he parked his car. This was 
unfortunate, but I dont think this is a reason for the exclusion not to be applied.
So I think the exclusion from cover  was sufficiently brought to Mr Ms attention.  I think  it 
reasonably applies  to the circumstances  of the accident. So I think  it was fair and reasonable 
for UKI to apply the exclusion  and decline the claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4163107