K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest)  started  applying  interest  to 
his overdraft facility  sooner  than it should have.  
background
Mr H raised three issues with NatWest that I thought our service could consider. These are 
set out below.
1.He was told by the bank  that the interest  would be refunded  to him if he sent the 
bank evidence that he changed  his graduation date. NatWest should also refund the 
overdraft charges to him. But this hasnt happened.
2.The final response  letter (FRL)  from NatWest on 4 April 2018 had incorrectly  stated 
the years  it had recorded that he started his degree and was due to complete it.
3.Mr H called NatWest on 6 February  2019  and asked  to be called back after 3.30pm 
to discuss his complaint  but this wasnt done. 
NatWest looked  into these matters and responded to Mr H in a FRL in February  2019.  It 
responded as follows:
1.It hadnt seen  any evidence to suggest  that a member of staff told him that the 
interest would  be refunded if he sent evidence that his graduation date had been 
delayed from 2010 to 2013.  Notwithstanding  this, as a gesture of goodwill, it refunded 
to Mr H interest applied between 1 September 2011 and 30 September 2015  of 
£336.04 and arranged and unarranged overdraft charges £288 applied  between 
December 2013 and August 2014.  
2.It accepted the FRL dated 4 April 2018  had incorrectly stated the year it had recorded 
that he started his degree and was due to complete it. NatWest apologised for this 
and confirmed what it had recorded  on its system.
3.It accepted there was no evidence of it attempting  to call Mr H as hed asked. 
NatWest apologised  for this. 
Our investigator looked into these matters. Having done so, he explained that he reviewed 
the complaint  contact  notes from NatWest and hadnt seen evidence to support that Mr H 
had been told hed been given a refund if he sent the evidence  to the bank. However,  our 
investigator noted that NatWest had refunded interest totalling £336.04 and overdraft 
charges of £288 to Mr H anyway and so he wouldnt ask NatWest to do anything more  than 
this.
Our investigator felt that the apology from NatWest was an appropriate way to resolve the 
last two complaint  points.
Mr H accepted our investigators point  about the third issue   the call that NatWest failed to 
return  but he was unhappy  with the investigators  findings on the other points. 
The matter  was then passed to me for a decision.
In my provisional decision,  I set out my initial findings in my provisional decision on the 
above three issues and Ive summarised  this below.
Ref: DRN48503802I have to tell Mr H that I think the investigator  has reached the right outcome here. I 
dont currently intend to uphold his  complaint points. I think our investigator set out 
the position in some detail so theres  very little I can usefully  add to what has already 
been said. 
I havent seen  any evidence that Mr H was told that NatWest would refund all interest  
charged on his account  if he sent it evidence that the completion  of his degree  was 
three years later than it was originally meant to be, in 2010. Whilst I understand what  
Mr H has said,  in the absence of any evidence to support this, I dont think  I can fairly 
or reasonably say that its more likely that a member of the banks staff wouldve 
given him the assurance that this is what would happen. I know  that Mr H says this is 
why he sent the documents to the bank but I think its more likely  he did this, and 
wouldve been asked  to do this, to have  a chance  of the bank changing his date of 
graduation and consider a refund of interest  based  on that change. But I dont think I 
can reasonably  say this amounts to a guarantee that this is what would happen. So I 
dont uphold Mr Hs  complaint about  what he was told by the bank.
Having said all of the above, NatWest has refunded to Mr H the interest charged to 
his account from when the first entry of interest  appears on his account since  2009 
up to 2015. It has also refunded  a number of overdraft charges to Mr H between  
2013 - 2014. Taking everything  into account, I think this is likely to be more than I 
wouldve asked it to do even if I had upheld his [first]  complaint point.
NatWest accepts it made mistakes in the letter of 4 April 2018 and also didnt call 
Mr H when hed asked  it to. It apologised to Mr H for this. Given  the nature of the 
mistakes itd made, I think this was an appropriate step for it to take when it realised 
what had happened  and so I dont require  to do anything more than it has already 
done to put things right.
My provisional decision in relation to those matters  I had decided I could consider  the three  
complaint points mentioned above - was that I didnt intend to uphold  them .
I invited both parties to let me have anything  in response they thought was relevant. Both 
parties have confirmed receipt of my decision.  Although they havent raised anything further 
in response, Mr H has explained to our investigator  that hes unhappy with the service hes 
been given and this will be responded to separately  to this decision. 
my findings
I have re-considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has anything more to add Ive reached the same conclusions  as set 
out in my provisional  decision and for the same reasons.  
I know Mr H will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what  
we  in trying to resolve his dispute with NatWest  can do for him.
my decision  
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Ref: DRN48503803Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4850380