K820x#14complaint
Ms F complained about the suitability of the advice she received from TenetConnect 
Services Limited when  purchasing  an annuity.
background
In 2012, Ms F was advised to purchase  a short term fixed annuity on the open  market as she 
was dissatisfied  with the annuity on offer by her existing provider. The record shows  that she 
didnt want to commit to a lifetime annuity as she felt rates would likely improve  in the future. 
The suitability report issued confirmed that the fixed annuity had a term of five years, and 
that no guarantee could be made  in terms of the future  buying  power  of the guaranteed 
maturity amount from the fixed  annuity. 
In 2017, Ms F complained  about the advice  she was given. Her fixed  annuity had matured 
and rates remained poor. She had been under the impression that she could renew the fixed  
annuity, however  this was not possible. She also said she had not received the suitability 
report, and didnt believe she wouldve purchased the fixed  annuity if she had. TenetConnect 
said whilst  it could not confirm whether  or not Ms F had received the suitability report, she 
did confirm shed received various  other  documentation which  had contained much of the 
same information and that the risks had been clearly explained to her.  
One of adjudicators investigated the complaint  and felt it should not be upheld. He noted that 
none of the documentation issued to Ms F indicated that the fixed annuity could be renewed; 
however it was made clear that it had a fixed term of five years.  He also found that all of the 
risks had been clearly  documented.
In addition, he felt that a five year fixed annuity tied in with Ms Fs personal circumstances, 
as she was due to begin receiving benefits from a defined benefit pension around  the same  
time the fixed annuity would mature.  He found that Ms Fs suggestion that she would have 
purchased a lifetime  annuity on the open market had she been aware of this option to be 
contradictive, given  her comment that she believed annuity rates were poor at the time which 
was the reason she sought advice. 
Ms F didnt agree. She said that during her discussion with the adviser at the time she had 
been told a number of things which didnt  correlate with the suitability report.  Therefore, she 
was adamant  if shed  received the report,  she would  not have accepted the advice to 
purchase a short term fixed  annuity. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Ms Fs disappointment that at the end of the five year term when her 
options were not as good as she had hoped.  She considers the advice she was given to 
have been unsuitable and that she didnt receive  the suitability report the contents of which 
she believes  to be at odds  with what she was told by the adviser.
I have looked  at the business  records and I am satisfied that the report  was issued to Ms F 
at the correct address. I cannot say why she didnt receive it, but I cannot  hold TenetConnect 
responsible for that. I appreciate that TenetConnect doesnt have a return slip from Ms F, but 
it says that only some  15% of its clients return these. I also note that Ms F took out the policy  
Ref: DRN47634532so it is reasonable  to conclude that there must have been some contact that would have led 
to the business setting  it up. In fact, there  was a further meeting on 16 January and I suspect 
the contents of the suitability letter were discussed. 
The next issue is whether it was a suitable recommendation for Ms F. She was in her late 
50s and had just left her job. Her state pension  didnt begin for some three years and her 
employers pension would be payable when she reached age 65. She had some savings 
and the key issue seem to have been  how to fund the period before the state  pension  and 
her employers pension  began. 
A number  of options  were considered and set out in detail in the suitability letter.  Even if 
Ms F didnt receive it I can see that the adviser  explored a number of ways  in which Ms F 
could fund her immediate needs.  He clarified  what her employers pension  would  be and 
what her existing private pension would generate. He recommended looking at alternative 
providers and after doing so suggested that she take out a temporary annuity with another 
provider.
As is explained in the suitability letter the key unknown was whether  the annuity  rates  would 
improve over the following  five years. The temporary annuity allowed for some  flexibility and 
meant that Ms F wasnt making  a final decision at that point when rates were quite low. It 
seems that it was hoped  that they might  recover. However, I am satisfied that the adviser 
also raised the possibility that they might  not. That said the annuity did offer a guaranteed 
maturity amount which gave some  security.
I appreciate Ms F feels the suitability report doesnt tie in with her recollection of the 
meetings, but I am satisfied that it was prepared at the time and its contents and the work  
carried out by the adviser reflect considered and suitable advice.
The documentation  Ms F received from the provider  also makes it clear that the annuity was 
for a fixed  term and that no guarantees could be made as to what future annuity could be 
purchased with the maturity sum.  Her existing provider only offered lifetime annuities  and to 
obtain a temporary  fixed term one she had to move to another provider. I am satisfied that 
she agreed that this was the best option at the time and that the risks were  made  known. 
Quite simply the adviser couldnt guarantee that annuity rates would improve, but given their 
level at the time it was a reasonable decision to take the temporary annuity.
It turns out that Ms F would have been  better  off if she had taken out a full annuity  at the 
time, but I fear that only became clear  with hindsight. I believe that on balance  I cannot say 
that the advice  she was given was unsuitable.  
I note Ms F has suggested that the advice was motivated by commission,  but I can see that 
the adviser did a lot of work  in preparing his advice and I am satisfied Ms F was made aware 
of the cost. 
It is unfortunate that annuity rates havent  allowed  Ms F to obtain a better pension  and I can 
appreciate her disappointment,  but I cannot  safely  conclude she was misadvised at the time.
Ref: DRN47634533my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or reject  my decision 
before 18 March 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4763453