K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that when he asked Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited about the maturity 
value of his whole-of-life plan, this wasnt what he was led to believe when he took it out. He 
sent it some  original documents for his plan, and these  havent been returned to him.
background
In 1974, Mr G took out a whole-of-life plan through an independent advisor.  The plan was 
with Welfare Life, which is now administered by Aviva. 
But, when he asked  about the plans  cash-in  value, he was told it was significantly less than 
he believed  hed been told when he started  it. 
Aviva said that Mr G was given an illustration in 1974 showing  an example of what could 
happen if he converted the plan to an investment  plan payable  at age 65. But he didnt make 
this conversion, so the illustrated amounts didnt apply. It said Mr Gs plan initially  had three 
benefits: whole-of-life  assurance; convertible term assurance and family income benefit, the 
last two of these expiring  at the first premium reduction date in June  1993.
Aviva said Mr Gs premiums had been to pay for the whole-of-life cover,  and hed been 
paying a higher premium before the other benefits expired in 1993.  Aviva said the amounts 
Mr G had quoted  of £21,927.00 and £19,646.00 were never  true maturity amounts, but were  
only estimates of values that could potentially be achieved, depending  on him making 
changes to the plan and on market  returns.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld  as she 
thought Aviva had administered  Mr Gs plan correctly. She said the estimated maturity  value  
hed referred to showed what he may have received if it had been  converted  to an 
investment plan. And the £21,927 was the family income benefit which had ended at the first 
premium reduction date in June  1993. 
The adjudicator said Avivas records showed the original documents were returned to Mr G 
in August 2017.
Mr G didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He said hed never had a policy  document, and 
the documents he had showed a cash-in value which  was adjusted to £21,927.  He said hed 
never been told about the options  with his plan or he wouldve have acted on them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, I find Ive reached  the same  conclusion as the adjudicator. 
This whole-of-life plan was sold to Mr G by an independent advisor,  so Aviva isnt 
responsible for the advice he was given  at that time.
Ref: DRN46903232And looking through the documentation  about  the plan, I can see the cash-in value Mr G is 
referring to, but this doesnt apply to his particular plan. It was an illustration of what could 
possible be achieved if it was converted to an investment or endowment. This is detailed on 
the particular document  where it says:  The plan or any part of it can be converted  to any 
one of Welfare Lifes Investment Plans  or endowment assurance. Merely as an example, if 
after 5 years the plan is converted  in full to an investment plan payable at age 65, the 
increased benefits and premiums  are shown below..
I can see from the records that Mr G has asked about the cash-in (or loan)  value the plan 
has accrued over the years.  But the replies hes received havent referred to either figure of 
£19,646 or £21,927. The latter figure appears on Mr Gs policy  schedule  as the initial  sum 
assured of an additional family income  benefit which decreased over the years until in ended  
in June 1993. It wasnt a cash-in value for the plan.
I know that Mr G has referred a remittance advice  of £148.23  that he received in 2000. This 
looks to be a refund of over paid premiums from June 1993, when the premiums amount 
shouldve reduced  in accordance with the original policy schedule.  The documentation 
suggests that this didnt  happen and Mr G carried on paying the same amount of premium,  
and the overpayment was refunded to him when this was realised.
I do appreciate that Mr G may not recall  receiving his policy  schedule  or being given any 
option to convert  his plan. But I dont think that Aviva has acted wrongly in its administration 
of his plan or in the information it has given Mr G to explain  what  it includes.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4690323