K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that the vehicle supplied to him through a hire purchase agreement  financed 
by BMW Financial  Services  (GB)  Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality. He further  complains 
that the vehicle was misrepresented.  He wants to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
background
Mr S tells us he acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as W in September  2018. He 
says he wanted  a less powerful vehicle than that he currently  possessed due to health 
issues he experienced. At the handover Mr S states that he noticed  damage to the vehicle 
which W agreed to repair. But after repairs had been done and the vehicle had been 
returned to him he noticed that additional damage  had occurred. This had included  a 
damaged windscreen.  Mr S says the second set of repairs took far too long and he incurred 
expense in having to hire a different vehicle. Mr S further states  that the vehicle was 
misrepresented. He says the specifications in the advertisement were incorrect. And that the 
vehicle has more powerful acceleration than advertised.
BMW said that Mr S had been given  finance documents which hed signed. And that these  
confirmed the vehicle was suitable and met his requirements. BMW  stated that the 
advertisement had also contained a disclaimer that the data referred to the usual 
specification for the latest model of the vehicle. And that it wasnt the exact data for the 
advertised vehicle.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld but only in part. He said that 
when the vehicle was supplied to Mr S it was fit for purpose with some minor issues.  He 
found that during the course of repairs to these  matters further damage had arisen. And this 
had necessitated  additional repairs. This had resulted in the vehicle covering around 1,000  
extra miles to have  repairs  carried out. As Mr S was subject to an annual mileage allowance 
our adjudicator said he should be refunded one monthly payment to reflect this. And he 
thought an additional £100 should  be paid by BMW  for the inconvenience which Mr S had 
experienced. He didnt  find thered been any misrepresentation  and said thered been a 
disclaimer in the vehicle advertisement.
BMW accepted our adjudicators view but Mr S didnt. And he indicated that he wished to 
raise additional  issues. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans  
been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr S has experienced some  issues and inconvenience with this vehicle.
And it was particularly unfortunate that some additional damage mightve occurred during 
the journey to return the vehicle after the first repairs had been completed.
Ref: DRN42337552Mr S hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service is 
able to consider  complaints relating to it. BMW supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - directly  - I do take it 
into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 (CRA). This 
states that in order to conform to contract  goods  must be of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply.
In his written view, our adjudicator set out a detailed chronology of the repair  history  of the 
vehicle. I dont propose to repeat it here as both parties have seen it. But broadly speaking  
this details damage which Mr S noticed on initial inspection  (netting section in boot) and later 
some cosmetic damage in the form of scuff  marks and scratches.  The vehicle when supplied 
to Mr S had done close to 10,000  miles and some wear and tear is to be expected.  The CRA 
states that where goods are inspected  prior to supply  then - in determining satisfactory 
quality - any aspects that inspection ought  to have revealed arent covered. I agree with our 
adjudicators view that at this stage rejection was not an appropriate remedy.
When the vehicle  was returned, after initial repairs, Mr S identified  some further damage and 
he again sought to reject the vehicle. Its probable this damage  wasnt  present at the point of 
supply and may have  arisen as the vehicle was apparently driven  back  to Mr S during some 
storms. The additional damage was to a pillar, bumper and windscreen. Eventually and after 
some delay these repairs  were also completed  by W. During  this period Mr S seems to have 
stopped driving  the vehicle as he was concerned  about the windscreen. But I think  there 
were alternatives to hiring a replacement vehicle and/ or using taxis.  It seems W had 
suggested using  a local dealer to replace the windscreen under warranty  but Mr S was 
unable to find one who would do this work. Ive not seen any information that persuades me 
the windscreen was unsafe. But even if that had been the case the simplest and most 
economic remedy would have been  to have it replaced and seek  a refund. Im not satisfied  
that the additional expense of hire vehicles and taxis was a consequential  loss of the 
damage to the windscreen.
Ill deal now with the alleged misrepresentation regarding power and acceleration issues. A 
misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a customer to enter  an 
agreement and suffer a loss as a result  of the misrepresentation.
For obvious reasons  I wasnt there when pre-sale discussions were  taking place. So Im 
unable to say precisely  what  verbal information  Mr S was given.  Ive seen a copy of the 
advertisement from the magazine which apparently first attracted Mr S attention. Theres a 
general disclaimer in the following terms:
The data displayed  above details the usual specifications of the most recent model of this 
vehicle. It is not the exact data for the actual vehicle  being offered for sale and data for older  
models may vary slightly. We recommend that you always  check the details with the seller 
prior to purchase.
Im aware Mr S doesnt recall seeing this and it seems in any event that he asked W for 
specifications of the vehicle he was considering purchasing. But Ive not seen any 
documentary information to show it gave him any specific  figures  relating to acceleration.
Ref: DRN42337553Importantly, Mr S confirmed to our adjudicator that he test drove the vehicle prior to supply. I 
wouldve thought  that this ought to have provided  the opportunity to see if he was 
comfortable driving the vehicle. And to be able to compare the acceleration of the vehicle he 
was looking to purchase against  his current model. Id have thought it was more likely  than 
not that Mr S wouldve  been influenced  by the feel the vehicle gave him as opposed to any 
technical specifications.
In summary,  Im upholding  this complaint  for similar  reasons to our adjudicator. I dont find 
theres sufficient information to show the vehicle was misrepresented.  Or that it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. But Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to award 
compensation for the additional  mileage incurred due to the repairs  as well as for the  
inconvenience experienced  by Mr S.
Im aware Mr S has now raised additional issues about the vehicle and particularly about the 
standard of repairs. Hes concerned about  the return standards  which hes potentially  
required to meet when  the finance agreement terminates. And he feels if the vehicle hasnt 
now been restored  to these standards he might  be liable  for the costs in the future. 
Im not able to deal with these aspects within the terms of the current  complaint as they 
didnt form part of the original complaint to which BMW has replied. I can see that Mr S has 
had the vehicle inspected by a franchised dealer and that various  findings  were made in 
relation to corrosion  and bumper damage. Its not clear from the inspection  invoice if these 
were matters present  at the point of supply and/or arise from the latest repairs.  
If Mr S remains concerned - and I understand the point he makes about return standards - 
Id advise he took this up separately  with W and BMW. And if hes not satisfied with the 
response then hes potentially entitled  to make a further complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint  in part.
I now require BMW financial Services (GB) Limited to take the following action:
1.Refund one monthly  payment to Mr S to reflect the delay in repairs  and additional 
mileage covered;
2.Pay £100 to Mr S for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4233755