K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset  Management Limited  should  have  
contacted him, following  his instructions  to transfer  his ISA, to say that it would  dispose  of his 
holdings at any price  it could achieve, on any day, within the transfer period.
Mr V is unhappy that Hargreaves  didnt contact  him to confirm if Mr V was happy to proceed 
on that basis.     
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary he said:
Having listened  to Mr Vs call with Hargreaves, he accepts it did sell some  of his 
holdings at an agreed price. However,  this trade wouldnt follow  the same process as 
an ISA transfer in terms of agreeing a price  before  the holdings  are sold.   
To achieve what Mr V wanted he needed  to have  sold the holdings prior to the 
transfer. 
Mr Vs platform did make him aware that these  holdings couldnt be transferred in-
specie prior to the transfer being carried out. If Mr V was unsure how his transfer  
would proceed,  it was his responsibility  to check.
Because the account was conducted  on an execution only basis, it wasnt  
Hargreaves responsibility to advise Mr V. 
Mr V disagreed with the adjudicators view. In summary he said:
His platform did make  him aware  that the holdings couldnt be transferred in-specie, 
prior to the transfer being carried  out, but it didnt clarify that the holdings would be 
disposed of at whatever  price it was happy with. 
It wasnt unreasonable for him to assume  that the sales  process would transpire in 
the same  way as all his other  transactions i.e. that itd confirm the sale price prior to 
execution.  
He is still seeking an apology and compensation. 
The adjudicator having considered the additional  points wasnt  persuaded to change  his 
mind. In summary he said:
Mr V accepts  he made an assumption, but that assumption was incorrect.  The 
guidelines make  clear that a business should complete a transaction within 30 
working days. So the sale could  take place at any time during this period. 
There was no requirement  for Hargreaves to confirm  if Mr V was happy to proceed  at 
any given point  having received his instructions.
He also cant see that it didnt act in a timely  manner. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN48095702Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for substantially the same 
reasons. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr V says Im not going 
to uphold this complaint.   
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Vs strength of feeling about  this matter.  
He has provided  submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered  
carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus  on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and not in as much  detail, as a discourtesy.  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr V and Hargreaves, and reach what  I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
I appreciate Hargreaves  did sell some  holdings at an agreed price. But that doesnt mean 
this trade  is likely to, or has to follow the same  process as, an ISA transfer in terms of 
agreeing a price  in advance. 
Mr V made an incorrect assumption rather than seek  clarification on the matter. Whilst I cant 
blame him  if he believed  his assumption was reasonable  I also cant hold the business 
responsible for his erroneous assumption. 
Hargreaves had 30 days within which to carry out his instructions,  there  was no requirement 
for it to consult Mr V just before doing so, and Ive seen no evidence that it had ever 
undertaken to do so. 
Im mindful Mr V says he pays  £200 plus transaction fees to have custodian services  
provided to him. Be that as it may, this doesnt mean  the business is obliged to advise him 
and its not what  he pays for. And more importantly this investment operated  on an execution  
only basis, so it was under no obligation to offer advice. 
I appreciate Mr V will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion  as the adjudicator.  
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what he wants to hear.  But on the face of the 
available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4809570