K820x#14complaint
Mr L says that he was mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy by Santander UK Plc (Santander).
background
During a meeting in1994 Mr L applied for a mortgage with Santander. At the same time he 
took out a PPI policy to protect his mortgage  repayments if Mr L lost his job or was unable  to 
work due to accident or sickness. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld as he didnt think  there  was 
enough information to conclude the policy wasnt presented as optional and thought it 
provided a suitable benefit. 
Mr L disagrees. He says it wasnt made it clear the policy was optional  and doesnt  
remember the costs  or benefits being  discussed.   
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ls complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint.
The policy was taken  out at the same time Mr L got his mortgage. Santander had to make it 
clear the PPI was optional  and not a condition of the mortgage. Mr L says this wasnt  done 
but hasnt given us much detail about  what was said when he took out the mortgage  to make 
him think this. But I think thats understandable  as the PPI was sold a while ago. So Ive 
relied more on what  the documents  from the time show and what I think  is most likely to 
have happened.
Santander has given  us a sample  of the PPI application form and direct debit mandate that 
wouldve had to be completed for Mr L to take out a PPI policy. I can see that the PPI policy 
was a standalone policy and applied for on a separate application form from the mortgage. 
The premium payments were also taken  separately from the mortgage. So overall I think  it is 
likely Mr L wouldve understood he had a choice in taking the policy  and that it was separate 
from the mortgage. 
And I think Mr L chose to take PPI because he completed a separate  application for it. 
This was an advised  sale of PPI. What this means is that Santander not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr L could make  an 
informed choice about buying  PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI 
that the policy was suitable for Mr Ls needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Santander took all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr L for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN45846802He was eligible for the policy  and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of 
the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made  it 
difficult to make  a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr L says he was entitled  to some sick pay but had no other 
means of making his mortgage payments if he couldnt  work. But the policy  wouldve 
paid out on top of any sick pay and for potentially longer covering his mortgage  
payments for up to 36 months per claim if Mr L was too sick to work or 12 months if he 
lost his job.
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr L in his circumstances 
especially considering  he was taking on a significant  and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if he was unable to meet his repayments  I think  Mr 
L wouldve  been  interested in protecting them.
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to Mr L at the time and if 
he decided he no longer wanted the policy he could cancel it. 
I also need to consider  whether Santander gave Mr L information in a way which was clear,  
fair and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he 
wanted to take the policy  out. I dont  know  if Santander  gave  all the information  as it 
shouldve. But for the same reasons  that the policy  was suitable and based on what  Mr L 
has told us about  his circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI 
policy if hed been  given all the proper information  at the time of sale.
This means  Mr L isnt any worse  off as a result of any wrong doing by Santander.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4584680