K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that the car she acquired via a personal contract purchase (PCP) with 
Hyundai Capital UK Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background
In November 2018 Miss D acquired  a new car via a PCP agreement with Hyundai. She says 
that within a short time the car developed an intermittent fault where  the engine would stop 
when the auto-stop-start was engaged, an error  message  would display on the dashboard 
and to re-start the engine the start  button  had to be pressed.
Miss D says this issue began to happen  more frequently  and in January 2019 she raised  the 
problem with the dealership who had supplied the car. The dealership investigated  the car 
on two occasions  but was unable  to replicate the fault. However,  it replaced  a faulty seatbelt 
sensor and re-charged  the battery  in efforts to fix the issue.
Miss D complained to Hyundai and also provided  video evidence  of the fault occurring. 
Hyundai requested  the car be independently inspected which was agreed by Miss D. In the 
meantime the dealership  made a third attempt to fix the problem but again  couldnt replicate 
the fault.
The independent engineer cancelled the appointment to inspect the car. Miss D told Hyundai  
that she had reservations about  the quality of the company  who was to carry out the 
independent inspection. Hyundai agreed  it would look at the video evidence and the job 
cards from the dealership  to review her complaint.
However, in April 2019 Hyundai said there  was insufficient evidence  that the fault had either 
been present  or developing from the point of sale. It said it would pay for the car to be 
inspected by another independent engineer. Miss D was unhappy  at Hyundais response 
and complained to this service.
During this services investigation the dealership arranged for the car to be inspected by a 
lead technician for the manufacturer.  They were unable to replicate the fault through  test 
driving for several hours but the cars engine did cut out in the workshop and they were 
unable to crank the engine  to re-start  it. The technician swapped the Engine Control Module 
(ECM) with that from another car and this appeared to fix the fault. They concluded  the car 
had a defective ECM and recommended its replacement. This work was undertaken by the 
dealership and the car returned  to Miss D.
Unfortunately, Miss D reported  that the following day the fault had re-occurred with the same 
error message being displayed on the dash.
Our investigator recommended that Miss Ds complaint should be upheld.  She said as the 
car had been  new a reasonable person  would  expect it to be free from defects for a 
considerable period of time. And looking at the evidence it was likely there was a fault with 
the car as Miss D had provided video footage  and photos of the error message being  
displayed. She said the lead technician  had experienced  the same  thing when  theyd 
investigated the fault. Our investigator  said she was satisfied the fault with the car had been 
present from the point  of sale and that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Ref: DRN42583442Our investigator recommended that as the fault was intermittent, and there  had been  several  
attempts to repair it already, it would be fair for Miss D to reject the car and for the 
agreement to be cancelled with nothing further to pay and her deposit  reimbursed. 
Our investigator also said that although Miss D had been able to use it hadnt been 
performing as it should have been due to the intermittent fault and looking at the impact of 
that she thought  £200  compensation was fair and reasonable. She also said there had been 
a period of 48 days when  Miss D had been  unable to use the car as it had been under  
investigation either at the dealership or with the lead technician.  Our investigator said that 
reimbursing Miss D with two months payments would be fair to reflect this.
Miss D agreed with the overall recommendation of our investigator though  she disagreed 
with the suggested monetary settlement. She said she should either be reimbursed all the 
payments she had made under the agreement or receive the majority of her payments back. 
This was because the monthly payments included interest accruing under the agreement 
and payments contributing to the eventual ownership of the car.  
Hyundai disagreed  with our investigators  view. It said it had now been established with the 
manufacturer that the car didnt have a fault and it was part of the workings of the car. The 
error message didnt  mean there was a fault. It also said the car should be the subject of an 
independent engineers inspection.
As the parties didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The finance  agreement (the PCP) in this case is a regulated  consumer  credit  agreement. 
As such  this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Hyundai is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a complaint  about 
their quality.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  there is an implied term that the quality  of the goods  
supplied  is satisfactory".  And the relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard  that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description  of the goods, price and all other relevant 
circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  involving a car, the other relevant 
circumstances to be taken into account  would  include things like the age and the mileage  
at the time of sale and the vehicle's  history.  
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition  
and other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish,  freedom from 
minor  defects, safety, and durability can all be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here the car was new and so a reasonable person would expect it to be fault free and not to 
require maintenance and repair for some time. However, Miss D says that the problem with 
auto-stop-start arose within  a very short  time of her acquiring the car and despite attempts 
at fixing it has remained an issue with the car. 
Hyundai says that the car is fault free and that this has been confirmed by the manufacturer 
who has also looked at the car. It says it is part of the workings of the car  which exists 
Ref: DRN42583443because of what they do when the car auto stops. It also says the error  message doesnt 
mean there is an existing  fault with the car.
Ive seen that the car has been  subjected to a number of different investigations including by 
a lead technician.  Although the dealership was unable to replicate the fault the lead 
Technician did experience  the car cutting  out and recommended the ECM was replaced. 
Ive not seen any evidence from these inspections  that show the message didnt indicate a 
fault, or that it was due to driving style.
I think intermittent faults  are often hard to replicate and Miss D has provided evidence of 
what happens with the car including video evidence. I think  she has been consistent about  
the issues she has had with the car. Im satisfied  on the evidence  Ive seen that the car had 
a fault with the auto-stop-start  system.
I appreciate Miss D didnt  raise the problem she was having with the car until January 2019,  
but that was still only a few weeks after acquiring  the car. I dont think a reasonable person 
would expect issues of wear and tear to arise  within such a short  period for a brand new 
car. I also accept what Miss D has said about the car having the problem within the first 
month, but not reporting it straight away as it was an intermittent fault and she at first 
thought it was something she was doing  until it became more frequent.  So, I think its more 
likely than not that this is a fault that was present from the point of sale and that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Ive seen that there have been attempts to fix it that have failed. Hyundai says there isnt 
any evidence the fault re-occurred after the ECM was replaced. Miss D says the problem 
resurfaced the following day and I have no reason to disbelieve  her on this point.
Hyundai say that it would  now be fair for the car to be independently inspected as Miss D 
cancelled the last inspection. But Ive seen  it was the independent engineer  who had 
cancelled and that Miss D then expressed concerns about the reliability of this firm of 
engineers. However,  I accept she didnt decline having the car inspected despite  her 
reservations as she has been keen to get the issue resolved.
I dont think an independent  inspection of the car would now be fair to Miss D. I think a 
further delay will only cause more  inconvenience  to her and the car has already been 
investigated by one of the manufacturers  lead technicians.
So, Im satisfied on the evidence that I have seen that the car was faulty from the point of 
sale and that there  has been an opportunity to remedy the fault that has not been 
successful. I think Miss D is entitled  to now reject  the car and cancel the agreement  and her 
deposit is to be reimbursed with interest.
Miss D says she disagrees with the monetary settlement proposed by our investigator. She 
says she should  only cover the actual usage of the car but I disagree with her approach.  I 
dont think its fair that she either uses the car for free or only pays  a small proportion  
towards the use of the car.
Miss D says that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 any deduction for usage must  be 
reasonable. And while I must take account  of the law Im also able to consider other things 
when reaching  a fair and reasonable decision. 
Ref: DRN42583444Here the aim of any compensation is to put Miss D in the position she would have been had 
the car been  fault free. Ive seen  she has been able to use the car, despite the fault,  save 
for the period when the car was away being investigated and repaired. So I think its 
reasonable she should pay for that usage.  While I accept the payments will include a 
number of factors such as added interest I think its fair that I take account of the cost that 
would have been incurred by Miss D had she either  rented another car or taken out a new 
agreement. If she were reimbursed all or a large  part of the monthly payments under the 
agreement then Miss D would be placed in better  position as she would be able to enjoy 
considerably cheaper travel than would have been the case  if the car had actually been fault 
free. I think that would be an unfair  outcome.
Miss D says she was also paying towards  owning the car but as this was a conditional sale 
PCP at the end of the agreement she would be required to pay a lump sum payment to own 
the car. This lump sum is based on the estimated value of the car at that point so I dont 
think she would be in a detrimental financial position by not receiving a reimbursement of 
the payments.   
Miss D has raised the cost of an upcoming service, however under the agreement  it is her 
responsibility to keep the car in good condition by having it serviced and maintained.  I also 
think that maintenance and service costs are an expected part of car ownership  and as 
Miss D has been able to use that car then  Im satisfied that such  costs should  be covered 
by Miss D until the car is handed  back to Hyundai.
So in conclusion, Im satisfied it would be unreasonable to require Hyundai to reimburse  
Miss D any more than the two months  payments when she was unable  to use the car.
Miss D has said that she thought the £200  compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
of taking the car back and forth to the dealership  was unfair. She says her family incurred 
other expenses. As the agreement is only between Miss D and Hyundai I cant  take account 
of the impact  on other family members.  So I think the amount recommended  by our 
investigator is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
So for the reasons given above  Im upholding Miss Ds complaint and Im asking Hyundai to 
do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Collect the car at no cost to Miss D.
Reimburse Miss D her deposit  together with interest at the rate of 8% per year from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement
Reimburse Miss D two months of her payment to cover the period when she was 
without the car
Pay Miss D £200  for the distress and inconvenience caused by having to take the 
car repeatedly  to the dealership.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im upholding Miss Ds complaint and Im asking  Hyundai 
Capital UK Limited  to do the following:
Ref: DRN42583445Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Collect the car at no cost to Miss D.
Reimburse Miss D her deposit  together with interest at the rate of 8% per year from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement
Reimburse Miss D two months of her payment to cover the period when she was 
without the car
Pay Miss D £200  for the distress and inconvenience caused by having to take the 
car repeatedly  to the dealership.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4258344