K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr K says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Ks signed  credit agreement. On it there is a section related to PPI 
and the box opting  for the policy  has a printed  cross in it. As this policy  was sold in a 
face-to-face meeting  I think its likely this selection came  about as a result of a 
conversation between Halifax and Mr K, where PPI was discussed. Mr K has signed  the 
form so I think  its likely to reflect what he wanted. And theres nothing on the form to 
suggest the PPI was compulsory. So on balance I think its likely Halifax  made it clear 
that Mr K didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember  this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr K so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Mr K says he wouldve  received  unlimited  sick pay at the time of sale.  It also appears he 
told Halifax in earlier correspondence  that he was entitled to six months  full sick pay. In 
my experience unlimited  sick pay tends  to be quite  unusual.  Mr K hasnt been able to 
give us any paperwork to support what hes said  which  is understandable. I dont doubt 
he was entitled  to some sick pay  but without further evidence  to support what hes told 
us I dont think its likely he had unlimited  sick pay. Mr K has also told us he had £10,000 
in savings. The PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to any sickness benefits he did have  
and for up to 12 months if he was unable to work because of accident or sickness. It also 
wouldve paid out for up to 10 months if he lost his job. And having  the policy meant he 
could use his savings  to cover other necessary expenses  at what couldve been  a 
difficult time if he found himself out of work. So based on the information I hold I think he 
wouldve found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
So Halifax  doesnt  need to refund everything  Mr K paid for it. But I understand Halifax  has 
paid Mr K back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN43586182my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4358618