K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Be Wiser Insurance Services Ltd, a broker, mis-sold him a motor 
insurance policy. He also complains about the charges Be Wiser made when he cancelled 
his motor insurance policy and its delay in acting on his instructions  to cancel. 
background
In January 2018, Be Wiser arranged a policy for Mr T with an insurer.  In March 2018, Mr T 
asked Be Wiser to cancel his policy. He didnt  accept  Be Wisers cancellation charges and 
cancellation was delayed but backdated to 19 March 2018.  
So far, Be Wiser has given Mr T a refund of £143.52, so hes been  charged as follows: 
 
insurers pro rata charge for time on cover £40.89
insurers cancellation fee £35.00
Be Wisers commission £32.63
Be Wisers reversal of initial discount £65.55
In the complaint form, Mr T said he wanted a refund of £250. 
Our investigator thought that Mr Ts complaint  should be upheld in part. He said that 
Be Wiser explained  to Mr T that whether  he paid the premium in full or by instalments, hed 
be charged for time on cover and cancellation  charges. The investigator said that Be Wiser 
should refund commission  of £32.63.  He said that the information  it gave to Mr T about  
commission wasnt clear at the outset. 
Be Wiser didnt agree with the investigator  and asked that an ombudsman consider the 
matter. It said that Mr Ts complaint was that it had missold him the policy and its delay in 
cancelling it. Be Wiser said that it reviewed its charges as a gesture of goodwill and refunded 
its commission of £100. It said that Mr T was better  offer as it had waived its commission  of 
£100, rather than the commission of £32.63.
Mr T said that he wanted a further  refund of £100.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the recording of the sales call between Mr T and Be Wiser. Mr T didnt 
explicitly say that he wanted a policy for a shorter period  than a year.  This was an annual  
policy and was priced accordingly.  As it turned out, Mr T didnt need the policy for the whole 
year but Be Wiser isnt responsible for that. Be Wiser explained  to Mr T that hed be charged  
for time on cover and cancellation charges, whether he paid the entire annual premium  or 
monthly instalments.  
Ref: DRN41503702The crux of Mr Ts complaint is the refund on cancellation. The investigator  is right to say 
that we can look at all the charges made by Be Wiser. The charges  for time on cover  and the 
cancellation fee are made by the insurer, not Be Wiser. Im not going to look into the 
insurers charges in this decision. 
In relation to the charges  made  by Be Wiser, it had to make  sure that Mr T had enough 
information about the policy to decide  whether it was right for him and to communicate in a 
way that was clear, fair and not misleading.
Ive looked at the information Be Wiser gave to Mr T. It said that any broker discounts  would  
be reversed before cancellation.  So, I dont  think Be Wiser acted  unfairly in reversing  the 
discount it gave  to Mr T. The information also said: 
Any return premium  to you will be the net return given by our Insurers less a charge of 
£100
I think that the reference to net return isnt clear.  I dont think  Be Wiser gave Mr T clear  
information about its commission of £32.63. So I think it should refund that amount. 
Be Wiser says that its already given Mr T a refund  of its charge of £100. I dont think  it would 
be fair for Be Wiser to seek to offset the refund it initially  made  against  the refund of 
commission. 
There was some delay in cancelling the policy but as Be Wiser arranged for the insurer to 
backdate the cancellation,  I dont think that altered the outcome here. 
Overall, I think the investigators proposed resolution  of this complaint is fair and reasonable.  
I agree  with the investigators conclusions and dont see any compelling reason to change  
the proposed  outcome in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint  in part. 
I now require Be Wiser Insurance Services  Ltd to refund to Mr T its commission  of £32.63.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4150370