K820x#14complaint
Ms P says St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) mis-sold  her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Ms P bought the policy  in 2003, a little time after taking out a mortgage. The mortgage 
provider has confirmed that St Andrews was responsible for the PPI sale. Neither it nor 
St Andrews  can say how the PPI was sold. But St Andrews assumed it was a telephone 
sale as this is likely to be most advantageous to Ms P when considering if the policy  was 
mis-sold. 
The policy provided  cover  for Ms P for accident, sickness,  and unemployment   subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £549.53 a month towards  Ms Ps mortgage  
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £33.29  a month.  
At the time,  Ms P was employed  in human resources. She has told us she was entitled to 
generous sick pay, together with Death-in-Service and redundancy benefits  from her 
employer. Ms P has said she was in good  health  at the time of the sale. 
St Andrews  say its records show that Ms P made  a successful unemployment claim in 2012  
for which she received  £4,890.78.
Ms Ps representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Ps representative says:
St Andrews failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Ms P wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Ps 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means St Andrews should 
have told Ms P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means St Andrews should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Ms P and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN49381322The information Ms P received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
As Ms P turned 60 while the PPI was in place it meant she would have ceased 
to be eligible to claim on  the policy  then.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ps. I dont intend  to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ps complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
St Andrews,  selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN49381323The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  at the 
time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes  into account when deciding, what  is in my 
opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Ms Ps case.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
St Andrews  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Ms Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If St Andrews gave advice, whether it advised Ms P with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether St Andrews  gave Ms P sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms P, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms P suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms P and 
St Andrews,  Ive decided  not to uphold Ms Ps complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Ms P know she had a choice?
St Andrews  had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN49381324St Andrews  dont have  much information  or evidence available  from the time of the sale.  But 
this isnt that surprising given how long ago the sale took place.  But I can see that the policy 
was sold to Ms P by St Andrews after her mortgage was already in place. So I think Ms P 
would have known  she didnt need  to agree  to take out the cover  to obtain the mortgage. 
And I can see that, shortly  after the sale, Ms P received a welcome letter  and policy 
certificate from St Andrews  which made it clear that she could  cancel the policy within  30 
days  free of charge  if she no longer wanted  it. So if Ms P hadnt agreed  to take the policy 
I think she would have  been likely to cancel it on receipt of this letter.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Ms P knew  the policy  was optional 
and she agreed  to take it out. And although Ms P says she was pressured into taking out the 
cover, I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude  that undue  pressure was applied  
based only on what Ms P thinks  she remembers happening such a long time ago.
did St Andrews provide  advice?
St Andrews  doesnt  know whether it advised Ms P to take out the policy,  but it has assumed 
this to be the case to be fair to Ms P. So Ive also assumed  this was an advised sale 
because this means St Andrews had to advise  Ms P with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given her needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps St Andrews  took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Ms P. It seems Ms P cant remember  clearly  what  happened  and there  
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. It seems likely that the 
adviser had some limited  information about Ms Ps financial circumstances, but there is no 
specific evidence to show the adviser  took steps  to establish whether Ms P would have been 
caught by the significant  exclusions  and limitations  which might have meant the policy did 
not fully meet her needs. For example,  there is nothing to suggest St Andrews considered 
whether Ms P had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded St Andrews did all it should  have  
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Ms P given her circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded St Andrews advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded St Andrews did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Ms P, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Ms P met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Ms P had a need for the policy  it seems  likely  that Ms Ps ability  to continue  to meet 
her mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if Ms P wasnt  working  
for an extended period of time  even allowing for sick pay and other benefits she 
says she would  have  received from her employer.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Ms P.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Ms P. There was 
nothing about  Ms Ps employment or occupation which  would have made it difficult 
Ref: DRN49381325for her to claim. And she hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect her ability to claim.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Ms P be disabled or unemployed for 30 
days before she could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 
24 months for each  claim, it still provided  valuable cover given: Ms Ps 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to her 
home and the potential  consequences should  Ms P be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against it.
-There was no specific age limit to the policy  or the cover  it provided.  So I think that 
the policy offered  you a reasonable period  of cover.
To claim  for disability the policy required that Ms P was unable to carry out the duties of her 
work or a similar job (or any other  work which in the insurers  view, her experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified her to do). But I think  Ms P might  have thought  it 
unlikely that, if she were unable - through disability - to carry on her own job, she would
have been able to do a similar job or other work that she was reasonably qualified to do.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  St Andrews gave Ms P sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  
St Andrews  was recommending to her and make an informed decision about  whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Ms P was given a broad description  of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Ms P was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Ms P would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  St Andrews gave sufficient  
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Ms P agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Ms P, Im not persuaded St Andrews 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded St Andrews  gave  Ms P all of the information 
she needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Ps representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Ps. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN49381326-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Ps representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms P about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Ps representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms P has suggested.  And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that St Andrews  ought  to have  done either. 
what effect did the shortcomings of St Andrews  have on Ms P? To what extent did Ms P 
suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that St Andrews didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Ms P. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms P 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Ms P 
would have still taken  out the policy, had St Andrews  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded St Andrews took the steps it should have done to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Ms P, I have  found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Ms P has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if St Andrews had explained things  
properly, Ms P would  have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy  
in any event.
Ms P says she wouldnt  have taken  it out and believes I should  presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Ms P had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when St Andrews advised her that there was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
Ref: DRN49381327As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Ms Ps circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Ms P knew she would  have to pay something 
for the policy, theres no evidence that St Andrews told her the exact premium  at the point 
Ms P applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Ms P would have been  told the 
cost before the policy started and she paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the 
costs were significantly at odds with their expectations at the point  of sale, its possible she 
might have raised that with St Andrews at the time,  or reconsidered  her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Ms P would  have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the discussion in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  St Andrews made clear exactly what Ms P would get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Ms Ps expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
mortgage payment)  was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms P thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Ms P knew about  or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Ms P 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Ms P be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Ms P pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy  wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms P from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Ms Ps circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Ms P was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, could have proved valuable  to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Ms P would  have been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Ms P didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think she had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Ms P might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
Ref: DRN49381328limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Ms P 
from taking out the policy,  Ms P, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
If Ms P had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Ms P was unable  (through disability) to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
St Andrews  may not have told Ms P that any claim she made would be limited  to a 24-
month period.  This may have differed from what she expected and might have hoped for  
but 24 months was a longer period than Ms P would have received full sick pay for and her 
redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 24 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Ms P would still have thought a policy that paid up 
to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  she be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Ms Ps sick pay and other employee benefits for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms P would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Ms P was made  redundant, or unable to work  
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Ms P 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms Ps representatives say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms P would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Ms Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms P 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN49381329Ms P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms P in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude St Andrews  should pay Ms P compensation,  as that would  put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Ms P thinks  St Andrews misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of the 
statements of St Andrews misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
St Andrews  failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information St Andrews gave  Ms P, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2003 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Ps representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find St Andrews negligently misrepresented  the contract to Ms P and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that St Andrews had been  in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Ms P in a better  position  than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2021.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4938132