K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H complained  that they were overcharged for their home insurance policy  by CIS 
General Insurance Limited (CIS).
Since the complaint has been  with us Mrs H sadly passed away.  Within my decision, for 
ease, I will refer only to Mr H. But in referring solely to Mr H, I acknowledge that this 
complaint includes  the late Mrs H.
background 
Mr H insured his home with CIS for many years. In 2006, Mr H contacted  CIS to request an 
appointment about his home  insurance.  Mr H was then provided  with a quote  for the Home 
Options policy that CIS provided. 
The policy was taken  out and commenced in June 2006. The policy initially cost £426.26 for 
the year. By 2017 the policy cost £638.91 for the year. 
Mr H thought his policy  included business cover and upon retiring sought to remove  this 
element of the cover in order to reduce the overall  cost of the insurance. 
CIS informed Mr H that his policy didnt  have business cover. Mr H was then concerned  that 
the premiums he had been charged were too high. CIS explained that the premiums  charged 
for the Home Options  policy  were correct, but it offered Mr H a quote for an alternative 
home insurance policy it provided  for around £185  for the year.
Mr H cancelled his insurance  and took out another policy with a different provider for around 
£150 for the year. 
Mr H says he was charged too much  and should  be reimbursed for the extra  he had paid 
over the years.
While the complaint was with our service, and to resolve the matter, CIS offered to refund 
some of the cost of the insurance. It said that as there was an alternative  policy  available  to 
Mr H from 2007 it would offer to refund  the difference between the 2007 amount Mr H would 
have been charged for the alternative  policy and the amount Mr H was charged each year 
from 2007 up until the policy was cancelled. 
It offered  Mr H £869.91 for the additional premiums Mr H had paid from 2007 up until the 
policy was cancelled. CIS also offered £239.02 (after tax) as additional compensation set at 
8% simple  interest per year  to compensate Mr H for being out of pocket  on the extra  he 
had paid in premiums. 
Our adjudicator thought the offer was a fair way to resolve things.
Mr H thought if the policy should have  cost around  £200,  and as he had paid around £600,  
he should get £400 for each of the 10 years he had the policy  with CIS. So, Mr H thought 
CISs offer of compensation should  be around £4,000.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN45241222my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would be, in 
effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I 
can look at whether CIS has treated Mr H fairly throughout the period he held the insurance 
policy. 
In this case, CIS has said that there was an alternative policy available to Mr H from 2007. 
And CIS has worked  out that this policy was cheaper than the Home Options policy  Mr H 
had taken out in 2006. So it offered  to refund the difference between  the two policies. 
Mr H thinks that the compensation should be around  £4,000.  But Mr H has worked this out 
based on his last renewal being  around £600 against the cost of his new policy. Mr H thinks  
that as he now pays a lot less, around £400 less, he has paid £400 extra  each year for 10 
years. I understand why Mr H thinks like this, but I dont think  its quite right.  Ill explain why.
Mr Hs policy  when he initially took it out in 2006 cost around £400 per year and the price  
steadily increased  up to around £600  by 2017. So Mr H hasnt actually overpaid by £400 
each year.
And I also must consider the fact that the new policy Mr H obtained  with another provider 
would have invariably  included a new customer discount. Insurers  will often offer a lower 
price to attract new customers   and this discounted  cost will likely be recouped by the 
insurer over the coming years. So I dont think it is fair to use the cost of Mr Hs new policy 
as the starting  point  to work out the compensation.
In light of what Ive said above, and having considered CISs offer,  I think its fair. There  was 
a cheaper alternative  policy available from 2007 and CIS has offered to refund the difference  
between what Mr H paid and what he would have  paid for the cheaper alternative policy 
when it became available up until the policy was cancelled. 
I appreciate Mr H was concerned that the policy taken in 2006  didnt have  business  cover. 
But I dont think that it makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint. Mr H didnt ever 
need to claim under  this cover  and so hasnt lost out. Although  I do understand Mr Hs 
frustration in thinking that he had this cover in place when  in fact he didnt. 
I would like to add that as Mr H held his insurance  policy with CIS for many years  it could 
well have been that an earlier policy did indeed include  business cover.  But due to the time 
that has passed, CIS no longer has records of the earlier policies, so it isnt known  for sure.  
As explained above, Mr H hasnt needed  to claim, so I dont think it makes material  
difference to the outcome of this complaint and I dont award any further compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, CIS General Insurance  Limiteds  offer to refund some  of the 
costs of Mr Hs policy  from 2007 is fair.
I understand CIS General  Insurance  Limited  has paid Mr H the compensation  so it doesnt 
need to do anything further.  
Ref: DRN45241223Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4524122