K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Mr H payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 1998 to cover  a mortgage 
that had started  in 1995.  
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents from the 
time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect  someone to recall  in detail everything that 
happened over 20 years ago when the application was made.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case. However,  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold. I will explain why 
I this is my view:
I think its likely Mr H understood  he had a choice about taking the PPI, even if he cant 
now remember. The PPI started  a few years  after the mortgage, so hed have known his 
mortgage application was already safely agreed  and the mortgage was up and running. 
Santander probably recommended the PPI to Mr H, but it doesnt  look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Being unable  to 
pay a mortgage  can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits if he 
was able to work due to an accident, sickness or disablement. It would also have  paid a 
benefit if he wasnt able to find enough work and his business  failed.  So the PPI would 
have been potentially useful. 
Its hard to know how well Santander explained the costs and benefits of the policy.  But I 
dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Mr H took the PPI.
Its possible Santander didnt  clearly point out the main  things the policy didnt cover.  But 
its unlikely Mr H would have been  affected by any of these. 
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Ref: DRN45530922Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mr H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr H any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should  also pay back to Mr H any extra interest he 
paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr H the extra he paid each month  because  the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay 
Mr H 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back  the tax 
if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  8 June 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4553092