K820x#14complaint
Miss I complains that Caversham Insurance (Malta) Limited declined her mobile insurance 
claim and didnt refund various payments. My references to Caversham include its agents.
background
In December 2016 Miss I took out a hire purchase  agreement for a mobile  phone  and 
insurance cover. Caversham is the insurer. In December 2018 Miss I claimed for her lost 
phone.
Caversham declined the claim.  It said the insurance  policy only gave cover for loss arising  
from fire, theft or accidental damage. There was no evidence that Miss Is phone  was lost in 
those ways so there was no cover.
Miss I complained to Caversham. In response  it said the hire purchase provider had written 
off the amount remaining  on the hire purchase agreement, £299.16,  as a goodwill gesture.
Miss I complained to us. She said the policy covers her for loss and shes entitled  to a 
replacement mobile  phone under the policy terms. She would  like a full refund of the policy  
premiums shes  paid and the cost she paid for a replacement phone. She also wants a 
refund of the payments  she made for the phone after it was lost.
Our investigator thought Caversham had fairly declined Miss Is claim and it didnt need to do 
anymore.
Miss I disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. She said the policy  didn't define  
loss so she could  reasonably understand  the policy to mean loss was covered.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  that I was intending to say Caversham must refund to Miss I 
the insurance premiums  she paid after the loss of her mobile phone (if any), plus interest. 
I said:
Miss Is complaint is actually about two separate businesses. Her complaint  about the 
insurance claim and policy premium refund is against the insurer,  Caversham  Insurance  
(Malta) Limited. Her complaint about  continuing to make payments for the phone should  be 
against another business, the hire purchase  provider (which  has a similar name to but is 
separate from the insurer).
Miss I has told us she made phone payments for several months  after the phone was lost 
and it was only after she complained that the payments ended. From  the information I have, 
the hire purchase  provider  wrote off the outstanding  hire purchase payment for the phone  as 
a goodwill gesture.
If that's not correct then Miss I may want to make a separate complaint against the hire 
purchase provider.  If so she should  contact our investigator.
This decision is only about Miss Is complaint against the insurer.
Ref: DRN44951332Im intending  to make a final decision that Caversham acted fairly in declining the claim and 
doesnt need to refund the full insurance  premiums  Miss I paid. But Im intending  to say 
Caversham should  refund insurance  premiums she paid after she lost her phone (if any). Ill 
explain why.
claim
The policy says it provides cover for loss arising from the theft of (the) hire purchase goods 
or any loss or damage to them caused  by fire or accident.
The policy summary  highlights significant  or unusual limitations or exclusions which include: 
The policy  only covers  loss or damage  caused by accident, fire and theft; it does not 
cover goods which  are lost for any other reason.
Portable electronic  equipment hire purchase  goods are covered where the theft,  loss 
or damage occurs  when  temporarily  removed from your premises  
Miss I says the second bullet point means  she could reasonably believe her loss of her 
mobile phone for any reason was covered. But I dont think  thats a reasonable reading  of 
the policy as it would ignore all the other very clear  information that the loss must be caused 
by accident, fire and theft to be covered. The policy doesnt need to define  loss to make  that 
clear.
Theres no evidence that Miss I phones loss was caused by any of those three  insured 
causes. She simply lost her phone,  which isnt covered by the policy.
Caversham acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim. It doesnt need  to give Miss I a 
replacement phone or pay the cost of any phone shes  bought as a replacement.
refunding insurance  premium payments
Theres no basis for me to say that Caversham needs to refund all the insurance premiums. 
Miss I had insurance cover, subject to the policy terms, for two years.
However, from what Miss I says she continued  to pay insurance premiums after she lost her 
phone. Caversham has only told us that the hire purchase payment  was written off, not that 
it ended  the insurance premium payments.
On the information I have,  once Miss I lost her phone Caversham had no risk to insure.  So 
I think it would be fair and reasonable for Caversham to refund any insurance premiums  for 
the phone  that Miss I paid after she lost the phone.
The hire purchase agreement says the hire purchase provider will receive the insurance  
premiums as an agent for Caversham. So it may be that the monthly payments that were 
written off were a combination of the hire purchase  payment and insurance premium. But 
I dont have any clear information about that.
In response to my provisional decision Caversham needs to tell me whether it continued to 
charge Miss I the insurance premiums  after she lost the phone. If so it needs  to refund that 
amount to Miss I plus interest as detailed  below.
Ref: DRN44951333responses to my provisional  decision
Neither party responded by the date we gave to respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has responded  to my provisional  decision  I've no reason to change  my 
mind. For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional decision I partly uphold  this complaint. 
Caversham must refund  to Miss I the insurance  premiums she paid after the loss of her 
mobile phone (if any), plus interest  as Ive detailed below.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint.
I require Caversham Insurance (Malta)  Limited to refund to Miss I the insurance  premiums 
she paid after the loss of her mobile  phone (if any), plus interest* at 8% simple  a year from 
the date she lost her mobile phone to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Caversham Insurance (Malta)  Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest  it should tell Miss I how much  its taken  off. 
It should also give Miss I a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4495133