K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about how their escape of water claim on their home  insurance  
policy with Fairmead Insurance Limited was handled.
For ease of reading all references to Mr and Mrs M include the actions of their appointed 
loss assessor.
background
Mr and Mrs M had home insurance with Fairmead. In late 2017 they discovered a leak in 
their bathroom and raised a claim on the insurance. Fairmead sent out its contractor who 
assessed the damage and concluded it was due to a failure of the sealant or grouting. It 
therefore declined  the claim as this was excluded under the policy.
Around a year later Mr and Mrs M examined  the damage further and found that it was 
caused by a leak from a concealed  pipe in the bathroom wall. They contacted  Fairmead and 
asked for the claim to be looked at again.
Fairmead sent out another  contractor who confirmed the damage had been caused by the 
leak. It therefore agreed to cash settle  the claim at Mr and Mrs Ms request.
Fairmead put together a scope of works and confirmed the cash  settlement amount to 
Mr and Mrs M based on this. They asked that it be paid directly to their appointed loss 
assessor. However Fairmead sent a cheque to Mr M for a lower amount than it had 
confirmed. Mr and Mrs M made a complaint to Fairmead. They didnt agree with the amount 
offered and were  unhappy with delays and the service.
Fairmead upheld  their complaint. It said that the amount confirmed  to Mr and Mrs M was 
incorrect as it had not had the excess deducted.  However, Fairmead agreed to pay the 
amount that had been originally stated   effectively waiving the excess.  It also apologised for 
addressing the cheque  to Mr M rather than their loss assessor.  Fairmead offered 
Mr and Mrs M £100 compensation for the poor service. This was in addition to £50 already 
offered for a delay in responding to the second claim initially.
Mr and Mrs M were  unhappy with this response. They said that theyd had to wait over a 
year to get a settlement  so they should be entitled to more  compensation. They  brought  their 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
She said the onus  was on Mr and Mrs M to prove the claim and not Fairmead. She accepted 
that they had received some poor service but thought the £150 compensation offered was 
fair. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree with our investigator. They said they had been without the 
bathroom for a year, which meant the four occupants of the house had  just one available  
shower. They said they should be entitled  to more compensation. They asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN40941402Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with how the claim has been settled. They say Fairmead should 
have done more to trace the cause of the leak initially. And because of this they dont think 
the compensation offered  is fair. I need to consider whether Fairmead  has acted fairly and 
reasonably while handling the claim and then, if it didnt, if its done  enough  to put things 
right.
In insurance claims it is for the insured to first show the damage or loss was caused by an 
insured peril that is covered  by the policy. It is then the insurers job to assess  this to 
determine whether  cover  is provided under the policy conditions  or if any exclusions apply. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs M noticed  water damage in their bathroom, but didnt carry out any 
further investigations. They say it was for Fairmead  to assess  the cause.
Although it is the responsibility of the insured  to show  the peril is covered, we would still 
expect the insurer  to take reasonable steps to assess the damage for themselves. However 
it isnt the insurers  responsibility to carry  out exploratory work. In this case  Fairmead  sent 
out a contractor to look at the damage and make an assessment. I think this is reasonable. 
Fairmeads contractor was only able to assess what they were able to see and determine 
whether any policy exclusions applied. In this case they determined that a failure of the 
grouting or sealant  had caused the leak. And I can see this is an exclusion under the escape 
of water cover in the policy.  So, from what Ive seen they took reasonable steps to make a 
fair assessment based on the evidence  at the time.
It wasnt until around a year later that Mr M investigated the water damage  more  closely. At 
this point he was able to identify the cause and asked for the claim to be re-opened. This 
time Fairmeads contractor was able to identify the correct cause and confirm  the claim was 
covered. 
Based on this I dont  think Fairmead has acted unfairly or unreasonably. It acted based  on 
the evidence presented  at the time. And made  fair assessments each time. I therefore cant 
say it should have done anything further.
Mr and Mrs M say that as they had to wait a year for the problem to be resolved, they should 
be offered more compensation. They say they have been caused distress and 
inconvenience due to the fact they only had one working shower for this time. I dont doubt 
that this would be inconvenient for a family  of four. However, as I have said, Fairmead made 
a fair assessment of the damage at the time the original clam was made. When the claim 
was re-opened,  a new assessment was made based on the new evidence  available. I 
therefore dont  think Fairmead have acted  unfairly or unreasonably.
Having said this, I agree that the service  provided has been  poor.  There was an initial  delay 
of around two weeks for the claim to be re-opened. Further,  Fairmead  provided  incorrect  
information about the amount the cash settlement would  be and sent a cheque addressed to 
the wrong recipient. However  I think  Fairmead  has done enough to make  up for this poor 
service. It has offered a total of £150  compensation. This is in line with what  I would  have 
recommended for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Further Fairmead initially made a mistake  by saying the excess had already been deducted 
from the agreed cash settlement amount. Since  then it has agreed to pay the originally  
stated amount  effectively waiving the excess of £350. I think  this makes up for the distress 
this error  would have  caused.
Ref: DRN40941403For these reasons I think Fairmead has acted fairly  and reasonably  when handling 
Mr and Mrs Ms claim. I dont think it can be held responsible for the year without a second 
shower. And it has done enough to make  up for the distress and inconvenience  caused by 
its poor service and incorrect information.  I therefore wont  require it to pay any more than 
the £150 compensation already offered or do anything differently.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I wont require Fairmead Insurance Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs M 
anything extra or do anything differently. Its offered them £150. Thats fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  So my final decision is that it should pay him £150  if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 April 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4094140