K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Miss C says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Miss C says the PPI section of the credit  agreement must have been pre-ticked and she 
thinks the policy was added without her consent. Capital One says Miss C initially 
selected PPI when she applied for the credit  card over the internet. From what  I know  of 
how Capital One sold PPI online,  Miss C wouldve been given a yes or no option. 
Capital One has given me a document showing what Miss C selected  when she applied  
for her credit  card online. This shows she selected yes to agree  to take out PPI. 
Miss C was then sent a credit agreement in the post to sign and return.  This had a 
separate section  for PPI that said I wish to purchase optional capital one payment 
protection insurance. The box next to this is ticked and Miss C has also signed  
underneath it to confirm her choice. While its possible the box next to PPI had been 
hand ticked before it was sent to Miss C, I dont think  its the most likely  scenario. 
Instead, I think Miss C opted to apply for PPI online and then confirmed this selection on 
the credit  agreement, and that she knew she didnt have to.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss C so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Miss C got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss C about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. 
Miss C had no sick pay available to her at the time and had a small amount of savings. 
The policy couldve  covered  her for up to 12 months per claim if she was too ill to work, 
had an accident  or was made redundant. So I think she couldve  found  it useful. Miss C 
has said she couldve relied  on her partner if she was unable to meet  her repayments. 
But support  from others cant always be guaranteed  as their circumstances can also 
change. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about 
the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means Capital  One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But Capital One will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss C because: 
Ref: DRN42356402Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss C about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Miss 
C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has basically offered  to pay back the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Capital One has to pay back to Miss C any commission  and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Capital One should  also pay back  to Miss C any extra  interest 
she paid because of that.
Capital One should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Miss C the difference 
between what Miss C owes  and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share 
it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Miss C 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss C can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss C.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss C any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4235640