K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complained about Raymond James Investment Services Ltd. He said that due to delay 
on the part of Prospect Wealth Management  and Prospect Financial Planning (a trading 
name of Raymond James) he had been unable to transfer pension benefits before a quote 
lapsed.
Background
In March 2017 Mr G joined his brother who was seeing his regular ongoing financial adviser 
at Prospect Wealth Management and Prospect Financial Planning (Prospect). Mr Gs brother 
had asked the adviser in advance about  this and indicated that Mr G wanted  help deciding  
how to approach unclaimed  benefits held in an occupational pension scheme (OPS). 
Its understood the adviser doesnt  think he heard  from Mr G after March 2017  until he sent 
an email in August  2017 with two pages  of the OPS document.
A transfer  quote  was obtained  from the OPS dated  17 July 2017. This quote expired three 
months later. There appears to have  been  contact between Mr G and Prospect in August 
and September  2017; it appears much  of this centred around Prospects request for further 
information.
On 12 October 2017 the adviser  told Mr G that based on the information they had, they were  
unable to recommend  the transfer.  
Mr G has provided  confirmation that a further  firm said they couldnt  recommend the transfer 
on 17 October 2017, when he asked them to review this on 14 October 2017; as he wanted 
to accept the quote in time.  He has gone on to tell us that a third firm advised on the transfer 
(it isnt clear to me if they recommended  it or not) around a month  or later.  Its understood 
the transfer completed in July 2018.
Mr G thinks Prospect took too long. So he thinks they ought to pay him the difference  
between the quote that lapsed on 17 October 2017  and the transfer sum he received;  said to 
be just under £30,000.
Raymond James rejected Mr Gs complaint. They  set out what  they understood the time line 
of events to be. In summary:
Late August 2017: Following an initial discussion in July 2017, Mr G obtained a 
pension statement from the OPS and provided  a two page  extract detailing  the 
transfer value  of £56,280. 
8 September  2017: The adviser  asked  Mr G for further information to enable  him to 
advise. 
18 September 2017: The adviser  chased Mr G for a response to his 8 September 
email. 
19 September 2017: Mr G confirmed  he did not have the required information
4 October 2017: Mr G contacted the adviser to see if hed received the required 
information from the OPS.
Ref: DRN49413992The adviser replied  the same day, confirming he hadnt and repeating what was 
needed.
5 October 2017: Mr G provided further information (initially  in a format  that couldnt  
be read).
10 October 2017: Mr G re-sent the information  in a form the adviser could read.  This 
didnt contain  all the requisite information  and the adviser suggested Mr G contact 
the OPS for this.
Mr G also provided  required  personal  financial information.
11 October 2017: The adviser  contacted  Mr G concerned about the timeframes 
involved.
Raymond James thought the advice  provided was right taking into account Mr Gs personal 
and financial  circumstances and with reference  to the approach of the regulator. They 
highlighted their view that at no time had Mr G become their client; but thought hed been 
told what he ought to have been  told.
They expressed sympathy with Mr Gs frustration but didnt think the adviser had caused any 
unreasonable delay. They also expressed  concern  at the reduction in the transfer value 
which they felt was of such a level as to be highly unusual and inconsistent  with what was 
happening generally.
Ive seen a suggestion that Mr G thought  Prospect had sufficient information from early  
August 2017.
Mr G told us that hed been  expecting a sum of around £30,000 as well as arrears, which  he 
thought would have taken  the overall amount to just under £60,000.
An adjudicator at this service  didnt think Mr Gs complaint ought  to be upheld.  She didnt  
think hed ever been a client of the firm; and didnt think the advisers  willingness to look into 
the possibility  of advising on a transfer  was sufficient to be considered  an offer to act.
Further she thought that Mr G had contributed to delay; and this played a substantive  role in 
frustrating the adviser in furthering matters at an earlier stage. In particular she highlighted 
that the information provided in August 2017  hadnt been sufficient. And whilst there had 
been a short delay once the information was provided, she thought Mr Gs holiday had 
contributed more significantly to any delay.
The adjudicator set out that the regulations  under which any regulated adviser giving 
pensions transfer  advice must operate are strict. She repeated the approach  of the regulator, 
which has also been quoted at various  times by Raymond James  and Mr G also,  that the 
starting point is generally that transfers  out of a defined benefit scheme are not suitable.
Based on what shed seen she thought Prospect had done what they were  required to do, 
and just because  another  firm might have acted differently, this didnt mean Prospect had 
done something wrong. She didnt think there were any undue delays on the part of Prospect 
or that they ought to be liable for any loss arising  from the lapse of the guaranteed  transfer  
value.
Ref: DRN49413993In responding  to the adjudicators view Mr G said that he thought  the impact of the 
regulators approach  was that many  firms are now unwilling to consider transfers out of such  
schemes. Mr G also forwarded a copy of a newspaper article  on a case.  
Mr G continued to feel the adviser  didnt act in a timely manner and failed to act with an 
awareness of the importance of time limits, and the risk of market changes.
Mr G thinks agency agreements can be verbal  and the fact the adviser acknowledged Mr Gs 
request to handle the transfer  meant that he was legally  bound to tell Mr G if he had the 
correct permissions and that if he had, whether or not his compliance department would  
agree to the transfer. By not doing so in good time Mr G thinks  he was left with little chance  
of finding an alternative in time to accept  the offer. 
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change her view and the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
Raymond James think the newspaper  article  can be distinguished from this case, as Mr G 
didnt actively chase , and they think the majority of the chasing was done by the adviser. In 
summary they agreed overall with the adjudicators view. They have  highlighted:
Mr G was never taken on as a client.
Approximately six weeks elapsed  from receipt of the transfer value to the time Mr G 
sent this to the adviser.
After requesting further  information from Mr G, the adviser had to send a reminder  
ten days later.
There was a further two week delay as both Mr G and the adviser seemed to be 
under the impression  the other was obtaining  the required information from the OPS 
(they note that a letter of authority would be required for the adviser to do this which  
wasn't asked for or provided).
Mr G obtained the additional information electronically but it was not in a readable 
format.
Five days  later Mr G sent the information  in a readable format but it didnt contain 
what the adviser had said he needed.    
They think the advisers position was impossible by this stage, time-wise and on 
balance, based  on the information available. And it looked  like a transfer was unlikely 
to be in Mr Gs interests. 
The claimed reduction in value (46%)  does not correspond with market trends nor 
with how schemes generally operate; and on the face of it, doesnt  make sense.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
I think the adviser from Prospect acted  reasonably  and did what  he was required to. I dont 
think he contributed, in any significant way, to any delay; or that he acted in any such  way 
that Prospect ought to be considered responsible for any decreased  transfer value offered to 
Mr G at a later date.
Ref: DRN49413994As all parties agree, the regulators starting  point on advising on transfers  out of defined  
benefit schemes is that this is often not in a consumers interests. Firms are required to 
obtain sufficient  information to enable  them  to advise. I dont think it is unusual  that this can 
often take some time.
Ive looked with care at the copies of emails provided by Mr G and Raymond James.  I think  
the adviser provided clear requests and explanations. I think  he indicated  what information 
was required,  from whom and why. I think in general  he replied in reasonable time periods 
and offered a number  of forms of communication and assistance  and tried to use the time 
available efficiently. 
I also think the adviser did what he was required to do. Ive seen the exchanges  on 11 
October 2017. I can see Mr G was keen to accept the offer and that he wanted  the regulated 
firm details and thought that the adviser could then use the time that followed to confirm the 
due diligence  required. This concerned the adviser; but Mr G didnt think  it ought to have 
done and considered there was no possibility that due diligence  would conclude  a transfer to 
be unsuitable for him.
Based on these exchanges  and what was known (and not known) about Mr Gs 
circumstances and position I can understand why the adviser  told Mr G the next day that 
hed spoken to the compliance department and Prospect were not able to recommend the 
transfer. Ive seen the explanation provided and accept this was reasonable. Even  if another  
firm came to a different  conclusion, I dont think that makes Prospects  thinking  wrong  here.
Based on what I have seen it is only at this point that Prospect indicated the cost of 
preparing a recommendation report and how that would need  to be paid. This and the nature 
of the communications lead me to understand the submissions  made  about whether  Mr G 
was a client of Prospect in any event.
But that doesnt change what I am looking at here. I havent been asked to decide  if Mr G 
was an eligible complainant. Had I been,  I would  have concluded, based on what  Ive seen,  
that he was. It appears to me he meets the definition set out in the relevant rules that he was 
a consumer who even  if he wasnt yet a client or customer (which I think  is arguable)  it was 
intended he would be. I think all parties  knew Mr G was seeking regulated advice on the 
suitability of a potential transfer from an OPS  from Prospect  and it was in furtherance of this 
that the adviser was acting and communicating.
Ive seen what Mr G said about what he thought  the adviser was required to tell him. I think 
in general terms he was provided  with the information he ought to have been. I accept the 
adviser could have taken a more formal approach once Mr G joined his brother at a pre-
arranged meeting. But the impression  I am given is of an adviser  that complied with what  he 
was required to do and was trying to assist Mr G in progressing matters to the stage he 
could receive the regulated advice he sought.  
I havent seen  anything that makes  me think the adviser contributed  in any significant  way to 
delay; albeit I accept  there may well have been a period of time in August 2017  when  he 
could have asked  for more information  at an earlier time. I accept information was needed  
from the OPS and I accept this can often take some  time. Ive also seen Mr G was away for 
a short  period of around ten days and said this delayed his response  at the start of 
September. Ive also seen  there  were some technical problems with sending  information and 
potentially a short period of mis-understanding.
Ref: DRN49413995I can understand why Mr G feels frustrated and disappointed that he appears  to have lost 
out on a generous transfer value. But that doesnt  mean anyone did anything wrong or that 
there is blame and liability that ought to be apportioned or applied here.
For completeness Ive seen the article Mr G sent that refers to a specific case.  Ive also seen 
what Raymond James say about  this. I hope its understood that we decide  each  case  on its 
own facts. In reading the article I think it could be said that there  are reasons why it appears 
to differ  anyway from the circumstances here. But this isnt something  Ive considered any 
further as I dont think its required here.
Final decision
So for the reasons given above,  I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against Raymond James 
Investment Services Ltd. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required 
to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2020.
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4941399