K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complained about the way UIA (Insurance) Limited handled her buildings  insurance
claim, and about  the amount it offered in settlement of the claim.
background
Mrs B made a claim for water damage  to her home caused by a leak from a pipe. After three 
months she complained  to UIA about  the lack of progress. Amongst other things,  she was 
concerned at the length of time it was taking to dry her home  and that asbestos might  have  
been blown  around. It was a further two months before her home  was deemed dry.
UIA noted that Mrs Bs claim experience hadnt been straightforward and that there had 
been unnecessary  delays.  It apologised for the distress or inconvenience caused.  It noted 
the property was now dry and that arrangements were being  made  for a surveyor to provide 
a settlement offer.
UIA later offered Mrs B £5,737.13 (plus VAT) in settlement of the claim.  Mrs B rejected this, 
as it was significantly less than what shed been  quoted for the repairs.  She later had the 
work carried out and paid the contractor £16,0001.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision, which explained why I thought the complaint should be 
upheld in part. The relevant parts of my provisional decision are outlined  below, and forms 
part of my final decision.
claim settlement
There were  three terms in the policy I thought  were important to the outcome of the 
complaint:
oUIA would pay for the necessary repairs to the building
othe maximum UIA would pay was the amount it would cost UIA to repair the 
damage
oif there was a kitchen,  bathroom suite,  sanitary fittings or other items which  were  
part of a set or suite of matching form design or colour, UIA would only pay for 
the repair or replacement of those parts which were actually  damaged.
I thought there were  three possible reasons  either on their own or combined  why 
there was such a difference in the two amounts. The first was the repair cost would most 
likely have been less for UIA than it was for Mrs B because it had a network of repairers 
that offer it discounted rates. The second  was that UIA wouldnt have paid the full cost of 
repairing any undamaged  part of kitchen. The third was that there could have been a 
variation between the work UIA felt was needed and the work Mrs B had done. Mrs B 
told us there had in fact been  a variation because  she bought  a new kitchen rather than 
having the existing one removed  and refitted.
1 The invoice Mrs B provided doesnt state whether or not VAT was charged. As it hasnt been shown 
otherwise, Ive worked on the basis that it was.
Ref: DRN46621042If an insurer wants to settle  a claim by arranging repairs through  one of its network of 
repairers and a consumer prefers a cash payment instead,  its fair for the insurer to 
reduce the amount paid by the amount of discount  it would  otherwise  have  received.  
This was effectively what the policy said.
But thats not fair if the insurer chooses  to settle the claim by paying cash, or if the 
consumer only chose  the cash option because  they felt backed  into a corner  and needed 
to move things forward. It seemed from what Mrs B had told us that she chose the cash 
option because  UIA didnt  engage  with her after she provided  a repair  estimate, and she 
needed to move  things  forward  given her living conditions. UIA hadnt provided  anything 
to refute that. So based on what Id seen I didnt think it would be fair for UIA to base  any 
cash settlement on the amount it would have  cost it to do the repair.
Insurance policies  generally only cover items that are damaged.  But that sometimes 
causes a problem  if one item that forms part of a set is damaged  and cant  be fixed or 
replaced so that it continues to match the remaining items.  Insurers dont think  its fair for 
them to pay for a full replacement,  but consumers  dont think its fair for them to have 
unmatched items when  they previously matched. I generally  think the fair solution is for 
the insurer to pay the consumer  compensation for the loss of match.  And the 
compensation is usually (but not always) equivalent  to 50% of the cost of replacing the 
undamaged items. The consumer can then put up with the unmatched items, or they can 
use the money to put towards replacing the whole set.
It seemed in this case that parts of the kitchen werent damaged and didnt therefore 
need repairing  or replacing.  It equally  seemed that Mrs B chose to replace those 
undamaged parts.  So I thought  it would  be fair in this case for UIAs settlement to include  
50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged part of the kitchen, as compensation  for the 
loss of match. But the problem I had in deciding a fair settlement was that the evidence 
UIA and Mrs B had provided regarding the costs wasnt very detailed.  Mrs B said she 
paid the contractor £16,000;  but the repair invoice she provided didnt break down  the 
work or materials involved (it just said it was as per the repair schedule provided  by 
UIAs assessor  which I knew to be incorrect because Mrs B had said there were 
variations). And UIA hadnt provided  any breakdown of how its offer was calculated.
I therefore decided  the fairest solution was for a compromise whereby the difference  in 
costs was split evenly. That meant UIA paying  Mrs B a further £5,705.15. The first part of 
that was made up of the VAT element of UIAs original offer ie £1,147.43. The remainder 
was calculated as follows:
Mrs Bs repair costs £16,000.00
less UIAs  offer (now including VAT) £  6,884.56
£  9,115.44
divided by                 2
TOTAL £  4,557.72
claim handling
It wasnt in dispute  that UIA could have handled  the claim better  UIA accepted  as much 
by initially apologising  for the distress  or inconvenience caused and by latterly agreeing 
to our investigators recommendation to pay compensation. I agreed the claim took far 
longer than it should have. For example, even allowing for Christmas and New Year  
Ref: DRN46621043intervening and tiles needing checking for asbestos,  taking five months  to complete the 
drying was too long.
Mrs B often  had to chase UIA to find out what was happening,  and she had to live with 
her kitchen  in a damaged state  for longer than was necessary. It was roughly a year 
before her contractor  completed the repairs   which  I thought  was roughly six months  
longer than it ought to have taken. Overall,  I felt £500 compensation was a fair reflection 
of the distress and inconvenience Mrs B suffered.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs B confirmed that she accepted my provisional  decision and that she had nothing further 
to add.
UIA also confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional  decision there is nothing  further  for me to consider. 
My final decision therefore  remains as my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
my final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint. I require UIA (Insurance) Limited  to pay Mrs B:
£11,442.28 in settlement of the claim,  less whatever it has paid already in this respect, 
plus interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum calculated from the date of the claim until 
the date payment is made; and
£500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4662104