K821x#15Complaint
Mrs E is unhappy with how PSA finance  UK limited (PSA) organised the voluntary 
termination of a hire purchase agreement. 
Background
In September  2015 Mrs E got a new car financed with a hire purchase agreement  with PSA. 
The agreement was over 37 months, with repayments  of £130.69 per month. There was a 
final balloon payment of £5,464 if she wanted to keep the car. The agreement also included  
financial shortfall insurance with monthly repayments of £5.02.
PSA received a letter from Mrs E asking  to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In 
September 2017 PSA sent Mrs E a letter detailing the costs involved in the voluntary 
termination. This letter had a section  for Mrs E to sign and return. Mrs E didnt send this back 
or reply to PSA.
After the payment made  in September 2017 PSA stopped Mrs Es future monthly  
repayments and terminated the agreement.
In October  2017 PSA began  the process  of collecting the car and gave Mrs Es details to a 
collection agent. The agent couldnt  contact Mrs E, so another  agent was instructed  by PSA 
in November 2017. In December 2017 this agent  told PSA it also couldnt  contact  Mrs E. It 
appears no further contact was attempted with Mrs E at this time.
In March 2018 Mrs E called PSA as she was at a car dealer  and wanted  to know  her options 
for ending  the agreement. She was told the agreement had been voluntarily terminated. At 
this point Mrs E said she never  sent the August 2017 letter  to PSA.
In April 2018 Mrs E spoke to PSA again.  She then said that she did send the letter. But, she 
said she never got anything back to confirm  things, so she didnt think this had gone ahead.  
Mrs E agreed to return the car at this point. But, she said she was unaware she hadnt been 
paying for the car and a complaint was raised about any outstanding balance. The car was 
collected later the same  month.
Mrs E then contacted our service. She said she didnt  intend to voluntarily terminate the 
agreement and had sent the letter by accident. She said her credit  record  had been affected  
as PSA had stopped taking repayments.  And she said PSA shouldve contacted her earlier 
to discuss the situation.
PSA sent Mrs E a final response letter  in July 2018. This explained PSA believed  it had 
correctly voluntarily terminated her agreement. And it explained there was a balance  due of 
£1,957.57 to settle the finance. Our service began to look into the complaint.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint in part. She said PSA shouldnt  have voluntarily  
terminated Mrs Es agreement based only on her letter and it didnt  follow its own process. 
She said PSA should remove any adverse information from Mrs Es credit  file. And she said 
it should pay her £200  compensation.  But, she said she thought it was fair that Mrs E owed 
the balance of £1,957.57.  So, she asked PSA to come to a reasonable repayment plan with 
Mrs E for this amount.
Ref: DRN43458712PSA accepted the investigators view. But Mrs E was unhappy with it. She didnt think it was 
fair that she owed anything to PSA. So, the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
I sent Mrs E and PSA a provisional decision on 21 November  2019. This explained that I 
initially also thought the complaint should be upheld,  but I thought PSA should do something  
different to put things right. My findings  from this decision were as follows:
Mrs E has been inconsistent with what she says about the initial  letter to PSA. She firstly 
said she didnt send  it and thought  it might  be fraudulent. She later accepts she did send it. 
To make things clear, I think its worth commenting on this. Looking at the signature on the 
letter and comparing to other documents Mrs E signed, Im satisfied she sent this letter to 
PSA. So, I need  to consider if this was enough  for PSA to voluntarily terminate the 
agreement.
The letter explains  that Mrs E wants to terminate the agreement. And it says she 
understands she will owe PSA an outstanding balance. So, Ive thought about what  
happened next.
PSA sent Mrs E a letter following receipt of her request to voluntarily terminate the 
agreement. Mrs E has again been  a little inconsistent  here,  saying she never  received  this 
letter but then later that she did  but on doing so she thought the amount due was too high. 
The letter is correctly addressed to Mrs E. So, on balance, Im satisfied  its most  likely she 
did receive this at the time. Ive considered  the content to decide if it was reasonable for PSA 
to voluntarily terminate the agreement without  Mrs E responding to this letter.
The letter explains  the process  involved and a breakdown of the costs Mrs E would have to 
pay. In several  places,  Im satisfied the letter explains  the process is not complete and Mrs E 
would need to respond to it in order to terminate the agreement:
Ive enclosed details of how much  youd have to pay if you went ahead  with this.
If you want  to go ahead  and end the agreement, please  complete the customer  response.  
Once weve received  your signed consent, well arrange for the vehicle  to be inspected  and 
collected
If youd  like to go ahead and end your agreement on these terms, please send us your 
payment by 05/10/2017
The letter also includes  a form entitled  ENDING YOUR  AGREEMENT  EARLY  
CUSTOMER RESPONSE FORM.  This form begins:
I confirm  that Id like to go ahead  and end my agreement and return  my vehicle.
The form says that a cheque is to be sent with it to settle  the balance  and there  is a section  
to complete with a signature and a date. The form then explains it should be returned to 
PSA. Im satisfied Mrs E did not return this form, nor send a cheque.
Thinking about  the content  and tone of this letter, Im satisfied Mrs E wouldve understood 
that she needed to complete and return the form in order to proceed with the termination of 
her agreement. It follows that I think it was reasonable for her to assume this wasnt going  to 
happen, as she didnt return the form or respond. So, it also follows I dont think it was 
reasonable of PSA to voluntarily terminate Mrs Es agreement without receiving anything 
Ref: DRN43458713back. Im also satisfied this means PSA shouldnt have stopped collecting Mrs Es 
repayments.
Having reached  the conclusion  it wasnt reasonable to terminate the agreement,  I now need 
to think about  what shouldve happened  next. Mrs E spoke to PSA in March and April 2018.  I 
asked PSA to provide a recording  of the call in April 2018 to hear what was discussed   but 
its said the call isnt available. So, Ive considered the contact notes from this call and what  
Mrs E told us.
The shorthand written below is from PSA. The contact notes say:
she adv that she was enquiring about  VT and was expecting to receive details like a ltr or 
call from us to confirm  the VT and she never got anything,  adv need to investigate why this 
has happened but in the meantime bal is o/s and we need to collect the veh
she adv that she wants to hand the veh back and not pay anything. She is happy  to return 
the vehicle. Adv that we will arrange  collection asap and in meantime  will raise  complaint
Mrs E told us when she spoke to PSA she was told she didnt have a choice and had to 
return the car. Thinking about this, along  with the contact notes, I think its most likely this 
was the case,  as the notes say PSA need to collect the car. But, given I dont think  it was 
reasonable for PSA to have terminated the agreement, I dont  think  this was fair. Its clear 
from the contact notes Mrs E didnt  want to pay anything. 
Mrs E spoke to us and explained that if she had the choice, she would have kept the car until 
the end of the contract as she didnt  want to pay such a large sum to terminate the 
agreement. This is backed up by the contact notes and the fact she didnt return the 
documents to PSA when  it sent her details  of the total to terminate the agreement. Given  
this, Im persuaded  by what Mrs E has said. Im satisfied  if shed  had the option, which I 
dont think she did, that she wouldnt have returned the car until the end of the agreement.
I now need to think about what would be fair and reasonable to put things right.  Mrs E says 
she shouldnt have  to pay anything towards the car. But I dont think this is reasonable. I 
dont think PSA shouldve terminated the agreement or stopped taking  repayments  from 
Mrs E just on the basis of the letter she sent. But, I must consider that Mrs E then had use of 
the car for several  months without paying  for it  which I dont think  is fair. 
If everything had gone as it should, Im satisfied  Mrs E wouldve  made  her monthly  
repayments and then given the car back at the end of the contract, rather than paying the 
balloon payment. 
As Mrs E didnt have  the car till the end of the contract, I dont think she should pay for the 
time after PSA collected it. And I dont think its fair for Mrs E to now pay the total that 
wouldve been due to voluntarily terminate the agreement, when Im satisfied PSA shouldnt 
have done this. I think the fairest  thing  to do is for Mrs E to pay for the use of the car she 
had.
PSA say the last repayment  towards the finance was taken on 17 September  2017 and the 
car was collected on 21 April 2018.  I believe  Mrs E wouldve made seven payments towards 
the finance in this period,  had her repayments  been  collected. So, I think  its reasonable that 
PSA reduces the amount due from Mrs E to the total she wouldve  paid - which I believe 
would be £949.97.  
Ref: DRN43458714I also think Mrs E would not have been  expecting to have to pay this amount in a lump  sum. 
So, if she needs to, PSA should work with her to find a reasonable and affordable repayment 
plan for this amount.
Its worth  noting that Ive included the cost of the insurance in the amount above. This is 
because PSA have  confirmed it paid for the policy upfront and didnt cancel it  so I think  
Mrs E wouldve  still had the benefit of this when she had the car. I dont think  she should 
have to pay for the whole  of the insurance because the agreement was terminated 
prematurely. So, I think  the fairest thing is for her to pay pro-rata  for the benefit  she had.
While it was Mrs Es responsibility to ensure the agreement was paid,  considering what  
happened and all of the circumstances I dont  think its fair that this should have an impact 
on her credit  record. So, I think  its fair that PSA remove  any adverse information  about this 
agreement from Mrs Es credit file from the point it stopped taking repayments  
17 September 2017. PSA already said its amended the file from September  2017 to 
December 2017   so it needs to make sure there  isnt any adverse information added  since 
this point.
Finally, Im satisfied Mrs E has suffered distress  and inconvenience because of what  went 
wrong. I think it wouldve  been very stressful  to discover repayments  hadnt been taken 
when they shouldve. It wouldve been  disturbing  for her to find out the agreement  had been 
terminated and that she owed a lump sum on it. And, she had to give the car back before 
she says she wanted to. So, I think PSA should pay her £200 to reflect this.
I gave both parties two weeks  to respond with any further evidence or comments. Neither 
Mrs E nor PSA got in touch following my provisional decision.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think this complaint 
should be upheld  for the reasons explained in my provisional decision and set out above.
Ref: DRN43458715My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct PSA finance UK limited  to put 
things right by doing the following:
Reduce the outstanding balance due from Mrs E to £949.97
Come to an affordable  repayment plan with Mrs E for the amount due above
Remove any adverse  information from Mrs Es credit file in relation  to the agreement 
from 17 September 2017
Record the credit agreement as ended rather than voluntarily terminated
Pay Mrs E £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4345871