K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with a mortgage in 1996.  
background
Mrs A took out PPI to cover her monthly  mortgage  repayments in the event that she couldnt 
work as a result of disability or unemployment . 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagrees. Mainly she 
feels Nationwide mis-sold the policy because it didnt make it clear to her that PPI was 
optional. Mrs A doesnt believe she wouldve taken out the policy if shed understood this at 
the time.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mrs As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  
Mrs A took out this mortgage and PPI at a Nationwide  branch. On her mortgage application 
I can see that there are Yes and No boxes next to where it asks: Do you want 
PaymentGuard? (this is what Nationwide Building Society called its PPI). So I think Mrs A 
wouldve seen this and understood that having PPI was optional. 
Theres a brief description on the form explaining that it protected her monthly payments 
against accident, sickness and unemployment.  Mrs A has ticked  the Yes  box. She couldve 
ticked the No box if she hadnt  wanted PPI  this is left blank on the form that Mrs A 
completed.
Mrs A has also signed the completed application confirming that she agreed with the 
information shed  given on the form. 
Mrs A also filled in a separate application form to take out the PPI. Shes  answered  
questions to check that she was eligible for the policy. Shes indicated  the type of cover  she 
wanted to have from a range of possible options.  And shes said what claim benefit period 
she required  and the amount of mortgage cover  she wanted to have. 
Mrs A signed the declaration at the end of the completed application confirming  that the 
information on the form was correct. 
I dont know what Nationwide said during the meeting. But I think  the paperwork she 
completed made it clear  that it was up to Mrs A to say if she wanted  to take out PPI. And the 
cover she indicated she wanted was added to her mortgage account when she requested it. 
Ref: DRN47847832I dont think its likely  that Nationwide  advised Mrs A personally to take out PPI  and 
Nationwide told us it didn't recommend the policy  to Mrs A. But it still had to make sure that 
Mrs A had enough information to make a proper  decision  about whether PPI was right for 
her.
Ive taken into account what Mrs A has told us about her situation  when  she applied for her 
mortgage with PPI. She was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the 
PPI terms and conditions.  The policy wouldve  paid out for up to 24 months per claim if she 
was unable to work. This appears to be significantly longer than the length of time she 
wouldve received  full sick pay from her employer. And the policy  wouldve also paid out if 
Mrs A lost her job and was unemployed. 
I dont know if Mrs A wouldve  always  had savings she wouldve been able to rely on if shed 
needed to make a claim. I see shes mentioned on her mortgage  application that she was 
funding the deposit for the house  she was buying from savings. And the policy provided 
cover for longer than its likely the amount of savings  Mrs A has mentioned wouldve lasted if 
shed had to use these to pay her mortgage, along  with bills and other  expenses, if she 
wasnt working.
So I think the policy couldve been useful to her. 
Given her circumstances,  I think its unlikely Mrs A wouldnt have wanted to take advantage 
of the benefits  PPI offered  her. Having  PPI meant  that Mrs A could be sure shed  always be 
able to keep up the monthly repayments  in order  to protect her home.  I think  that wouldve 
been an important  consideration  at the time  even  if shes  now forgotten  this. 
Its possible some of the information  Nationwide gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But it doesnt look as if Mrs A was affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover. So, I dont think more information about  policy  exclusions and 
limitations wouldve  made any difference to Mrs As decision to take out PPI.  
The PPI cost was mentioned  in the mortgage  offer Nationwide sent Mrs A so I think she 
wouldve had an idea of the likely cost. Ive seen  nothing  to suggest that the monthly  
premium was unaffordable for her. Mrs A couldve cancelled the PPI at any time if she hadnt 
wanted to pay for it. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mrs A still wouldve  decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as it gave 
her useful protection in her particular situation.  I dont think better information wouldve 
stopped her buying it.
 
This means  I dont  find that Mrs A has lost out as a result of anything that Nationwide 
Building Society did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything  to put things right.
Ref: DRN47847833my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4784783