K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 1994 and 2004. Mr and Mrs T say Bradford & Bingley  Plc (B&B) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
In 1994 Mr T was sold a PPI policy. Mr T had already held a mortgage with B&B since  1989.
The PPI premiums were initially £13.07  per month. The policy could have paid a monthly 
benefit of £188 per month for up to 12 months if Mr T became unemployed or couldnt work 
due to an accident or ill health. Around 1997 Mr T made a claim  on the policy  and in 2001 
cover was increased to £211 per month.  The policy was cancelled in 2003 when Mr T 
stopped working.
In May 2004  Mrs T took out a PPI policy in her sole name. The monthly premium was £4.48 
per month and it covered her against  unemployment  only. The policy could have paid a 
monthly benefit of £150 per month.  The policy was cancelled in September  2004.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policies were  mis-sold. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaint has been passed to me. 
I notice in Mr and Mrs Ts response to the adjudicators findings they have mentioned an 
issue with their buildings and contents insurance. To be clear, in this decision I am only 
dealing with the sale of the two PPI policies in 1994  and 2004.  If Mr and Mrs T have 
concerns about  their building and contents insurance they should contact B&B in the first 
instance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
policy sold in 1994
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think B&B made it clear that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this after 25 years.  Mr T already 
had a mortgage in place  so he would have been  aware he didnt have to take out the PPI to 
obtain the mortgage. Ive also seen a copy of the PPI application form signed by Mr T in 
1994 and two letters confirming to Mr T that the PPI had been  set up. Taking all this into 
account I think Mr T was aware  he had a choice about taking out the PPI.
From what  Ive seen I dont think B&B recommended the PPI to Mr T so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr T got the information  he needed 
to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
Ref: DRN40745792of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover, indeed it seems Mr T made a claim on the 
policy in 1997.  Mr T told his employer would only pay him sick pay for three months if he 
became unwell. But the PPI couldve paid a benefit for up to twelve months.  So it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
policy sold in 2004
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr Ts policy was cancelled  in 2003.  In 2004 Mrs T took a policy  out in her name  only.  The 
mortgage was already  in place so I think Mrs T would have known she didnt have to take it 
out to obtain the mortgage.  Ive also seen transfer of equity form from 2004 which included a 
section on PPI. I can see the option to accept or decline the cover was given and the box to 
accept the PPI has been ticked. So I think B&B made it clear that Mrs T didnt have to take 
out the PPI and that she chose to take it out.
With the passage  of time it isnt possible for me to know  what information was given to Mrs T 
at the time. And its possible it couldve been  clearer. But Mrs T seems to have been  eligible 
for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the policy exclusions or limits. The policy looks  to 
have been affordable. The policy only covered Mrs T against unemployment. And as Mrs T 
was the higher wage earner at the time it would  have been useful to her if she lost her job.
Which means B&B doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI policies to                  
Mr and Mrs T.
But B&B will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T because: 
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs T about that. Because B&B didnt tell        
Mr and Mrs T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, B&B has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premiums - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs T have said - including what  theyve  said about 
having a policy cancelled and then being  told they had to take more expensive  policy.  But 
having looked at everything I havent  seen any persuasive evidence that a policy  was 
cancelled and replaced with a more  expensive one. So these  points dont change  my 
decision.
what the business needs  to do
B&B has to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premiums. B&B should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs T any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
B&B should  pay back to Mr and Mrs T the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. B&B should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs T 8%* simple interest on each payment.
Ref: DRN40745793*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs T can claim back the tax 
if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policies were  not mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4074579