K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policies in 1992, 1997 and 1999.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out mortgages with Nationwide in 1992, 1997  and 1999.  Each  time they 
were sold a PPI policy to protect their mortgage repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI policies  were mis-sold. Mr and Mrs D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Nationwide hasnt been able to send  all the paperwork  from the time of the sales.                     
In particular it has very little information  about the 1992 and 1997 sales.  This isnt unusual  
and its understandable  in view of the time that has gone by since the sales took place.      
But where there is limited  information, I will make  my decision  based on whats more likely to 
have happened, taking  into account  the evidence  available,  what  both parties have told me 
and what we know about these types of sales.
I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
The 1992  sale
Mr and Mrs D have told us they were not made  aware of the PPI when  they took out the 
mortgage in 1992 and that it was included in the mortgage package.
In the early 1990s  Nationwide did market mortgage  packages that included  PPI. Typically  
theyd give the borrower  a better  interest  rate or be offered to someone  wanting to borrow a 
higher than standard loan to value. In this case Nationwide has told us Mr and Mrs D wanted 
to borrow 100% of the property value. At the time Nationwide offered 100%  mortgages but 
PPI was compulsory.
A PPI is mis-sold  if a consumer is mis-led into believing the PPI is compulsory when in fact it 
isnt, but thats  not what happened  here.
There is nothing wrong with Nationwide offering such a package  as long as it made it clear 
to Mr and Mrs D that the PPI was included in the package. They  could have then chosen to 
approach another lender  for the mortgage  if they didnt want  PPI.
Nationwide does not have the original paperwork but its shown us a sample of the type of 
mortgage application in use around 1992.  I can see the application states that if the 
applicant is borrowing over 95% of the property value then a PPI policy is compulsory.  Its 
also likely this information would  have been  included in the mortgage offer. And from 
experience the PPI would  have detailed on the annual  mortgage statement.
Ref: DRN42306072I must also allow for the fact that this sale took place  over 26 years ago, and memories do 
fade. Taking everything  into account  I think its most likely Nationwide made Mr and Mrs D 
aware that the PPI was included in the mortgage  package, and Mr and Mrs D were  free to 
approach a different lender if they didnt want  PPI.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs D so it didnt have to check  if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs D got the information they needed  to 
decide if it was right for them.
After 26 years I cant know what information was given to Mr and Mrs D. Its possible that 
Nationwide didnt give all the information it should  have done. But thats not enough to 
uphold this complaint.  I next need to decide  whether or not Mr and Mrs D would have  
changed their mind about buying the policy if they had been given better or clearer  
information. I cant say they would have  done.
The PPI covered both Mr and Mrs D and wouldve paid a monthly benefit if either had not 
been able to work due to an accident,  sickness  or unemployment.
Based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like they were 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so they would have been  
able to make  a claim if they needed  to.
The policy had a 90-day deferred  period,  this might put off someone who had no employee 
sick pay or other resources as the policy wouldnt begin to pay out for three months.            
But Mr and Mrs D have told us they both would have received sick pay for more than three 
months if they couldnt work. So I dont think the 90 day deferral  period  would  have put       
Mr and Mrs D off buying the policy.
The PPI policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay they received and it couldve 
paid out for up to 24 months. Thats much longer than Mr and Mrs Ds sick pay would last, so 
I think Mr and Mrs D couldve  found the policy useful, particularly if either of them couldnt 
work for an extended  period.  It also looks  like the premiums were affordable. 
Mr and Mrs D have said they had some savings. But they chose to take out a 100% 
mortgage so it looks  like they wanted  to keep any savings intact rather than use towards  a 
deposit. And the PPI would mean they wouldnt have to use their savings  towards paying the 
mortgage if they couldnt work or lost their jobs. And the policy would mean  they didnt have 
to rely on their families  for help to pay the mortgage.
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs D off taking out 
the PPI. 
In summary  I think Mr and Mrs D were told the PPI was included  as part of a mortgage 
package offered to them  by Nationwide  and they chose to accept the mortgage offer.  I think  
that even if Nationwide had given them all the clear  information about the PPI that it 
shouldve, they still would  have gone ahead.
The 1997  sale.
In 1997 Mr and Mrs D took out a new mortgage  with Nationwide. The original PPI policy  was 
cancelled and they took out a new one. This time the policy covered only Mr D.
Ref: DRN42306073Mr and Mrs D have told us they were not given a choice about whether to take out the cover.
Unlike the 1992 sale the PPI sold to Mr and Mrs D in 1997 was not compulsory. 
There is no paperwork available for the 1997  sale, but from experience I think its likely       
Mr and Mrs D would  have needed  to indicate  on an application form that they wanted the 
PPI. And because the policy  changed  to cover  just Mr D, I think  its likely a discussion took 
place. 
While I accept its possible Mr and Mrs D were told they had to take the PPI, I think its more  
likely it was discussed and they agreed  to buy it but have simply forgotten  over time. So 
without any more persuasive evidence I cant uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  on this point. 
I dont think Nationwide  recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs D so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for them. But it did have to give them  clear  information about  the policy so they 
could decide for themselves whether to buy it. 
I dont know how clearly  Nationwide  explained  the cost of the policy. But, bearing in mind  the 
cover it gave them and the premiums,  even if it had made the cost clear,  I think Mr and     
Mrs D would still have bought it.   
Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr D 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things. For instance  hes told us he 
was employed and was eligible for the policy. And he didnt  have any medical conditions that 
wouldnt be covered.
Ive taken into account Mr Ds comments that he was entitled to some  sick pay from his 
employer at the time of the sale. But the PPI policy sold in 1997 couldve paid a monthly 
benefit in addition to any sick pay, and for up to 12 months. And itd mean that Mr and      
Mrs D wouldnt  have had to use their savings to pay the mortgage if things went  wrong. 
So I think it is likely the 1997 PPI policy was presented as optional.  And I think  Mr and Mrs D 
would still have taken  the policy out even if Nationwide had given them  all the clear  
information it should have.
The 1999  policy
In 1999 Mr and Mrs D took out another mortgage with Nationwide.  The 1997  PPI policy  was 
cancelled and they were sold a new policy. This policy again covered Mr D only and only 
against unemployment.
Nationwide has been able to show us a copy of the mortgage application  form from 1999.       
I can see there is a section that contains the option to accept or decline PPI. And the option 
to accept it has been ticked. Its likely  the application  was completed by a member of 
Nationwides staff,  but the form contains  a lot of personal detail so Im satisfied it was 
probably completed during an interview, then passed to Mr and Mrs D to check and sign.     
So I think the PPI was presented as optional and Mr and Mrs D chose to buy it.
Only Mr D was covered by the policy. Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the 
time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  
Ref: DRN42306074- so it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable.
So overall I dont  think better information  about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs D off 
taking out the cover.  
In summary,  for the reasons Ive given, I dont  find that any of the three  PPI policies  were  
mis-sold. Which means Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to    
Mr and Mrs D.
But for the 1999 policy only Nationwide  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs D  because: 
When the policy was sold,  Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D 
about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
For the 1999 policy only Nationwide has to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Nationwide should  also pay 
back to Mr and Mrs D any extra interest they paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs D the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide  should  
also pay Mr and Mrs D 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs D can claim it back if 
they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policies were  not mis-sold  so Nationwide  Building Society doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But for the 1999 policy only, if it has not done  so already, Nationwide Building Society does 
have to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4230607