K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  sold in 
conjunction with a personal loan by Barclays Bank  UK PLC.
background
Mr J applied for a £1,500  personal loan in September 2005 and bought a single premium  
PPI policy  at the same time. The policy cost £251.10  and was added to the loan. The policy  
provided cover for Mr J in the event that he wasnt working due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Js complaint.  Mr J doesnt agree, so the case  has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Js case.
was Mr J given a choice  about PPI?
Unfortunately theres limited documentation from the time of the sale,  and I have seen no 
records of the discussion  that took place between the Barclays representative  and Mr J. But 
I am mindful  of the fact the sale took place  more than 10 years ago and it is perhaps 
inevitable the passage of time will make  exact recall of what took place more difficult. In 
circumstances like these, where  there  is little documentary evidence,  I need to weigh up 
what, in my mind, is more  likely  to have happened.
Barclays told us the policy was optional because Mr J wouldve  been advised about PPI as 
part of its process and he wouldve been  asked  for consent before it was added  to his loan. It 
also explained his loan agreement wouldve shown the PPI which he had already agreed to. 
Barclays couldnt produce Mr Js documents which he had signed, but based on our 
experiences of Barclays processes and samples of its agreements being used at the time, I 
think its more likely  that Mr J was asked  whether he wanted  PPI and I think he probably said 
yes because it could  provide him with useful  benefits. So I think  Barclays presented PPI as 
an optional product, and Mr J chose to take it out, even if he cant now recall doing so.
did Barclays recommend  the policy to Mr J? And if so was it suitable?
Barclays recommended  the policy to Mr J  this means it had to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr J. Looking at what I know about his circumstances from the time of sale,  I 
think the policy was suitable for him. I say this because:
Mr J was eligible for the policy and he wasnt affected by any of the policys 
exclusions, for example those relation to existing medical  conditions  or self-
employment. This is because he told us he was in good  health and he was in 
permanent employment.
Ref: DRN47611812Mr J told us he was entitled  to some employee  benefits if he wasnt able to work due 
to sickness or an accident. But this doesnt automatically make  the recommendation 
of this policy unsuitable. I say this because  the policy  wouldve paid out over and 
above any employee benefits  and for longer. And it wouldve allowed him to use any 
savings he may have had to pay any pressing bills if hed lost his job or wasnt  
working because  he was ill. So I think Mr J might have liked the security  the policy 
gave him - it wouldve given him peace  of mind that the loan would be covered if he 
couldnt work. And, as I explained  before, he wasnt affected by the exclusions so he 
was likely to have  obtained some benefit from it.
So on balance I think the policy  offered  a benefit to Mr J.
I noticed that Mr J wouldve only received  a limited refund of the PPI premium  if he cancelled  
the policy early. However, I havent  seen any information that suggests Mr J needed the 
flexibility to cancel the policy early at the time of sale in 2005. And although he took out 
further loans in the years that followed, nothing suggests this was his intention in September 
2005.
For these reasons I think the policy was suitable  for him.
did Barclays meet Mr Js information needs??
Barclays also had to give Mr J enough clear information about the policy  so he could make 
an informed choice at the time of the sale. 
In this case, the policy cost around  £251.10, excluding  interest,  which covered him for 3 
years. I dont know how the cost was explained  to Mr J during the meeting, but it does look 
as though it was affordable for him at the time. Barclays said the cost was set out separately 
on a separate  agreement, and I do think it wouldve been clear  to him. So, as I think Mr J 
chose to have  the PPI, I dont think he wouldve been put off from buying it even if hed been 
given more detailed  information about cost.
So in summary,  I think the policy probably was optional and that Mr J probably agreed  to 
take the cover. I think the policy was suitable  for Mr J. And I dont think he wouldve turned it 
down if hed been given more detailed  information. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and I make no award against 
Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4761181