complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies. Mr and 
Mrs R say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS),  trading  as Birmingham  Midshires, mis-sold them the 
policies. 
background
Mr and Mrs R were sold PPI alongside a mortgage which  commenced  in 1998. This policy 
ended when they redeemed the mortgage  in 2002. BoS contacted  us to let us know  that its 
upholding their complaint  about the mis-sale of this policy and is making  a full offer, in-line  
with our guidance. Mr and Mrs R accepted  the offer, therefore Ive not considered the sale of 
the 1998 policy in my decision.   
In 2002 Mr and Mrs R were sold another policy when they renegotiated  their mortgage 
terms. At that time the regular monthly  PPI payments were around £28.11, and upon a 
successful claim  the policy wouldve provided  a monthly  benefit  of £592.00 in total - spilt 
75% to Mr R and 25% to Mrs R. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed  with our adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs R say they were told they had to have this insurance  in order to get the 
mortgage. But they havent given  us a lot more  detail about the sale, nor have they provided 
any plausible and persuasive evidence of the conversation that took place. And as the PPI 
was sold a long time ago, this is something I have  to keep in mind  when deciding what  I 
think is more likely  to have happened.  
From what  Ive seen I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs R didnt have  to take out the 
PPI and that they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant remember 
this now. I say this because Ive seen a copy of their mortgage application where the box to 
agree to the policy was ticked. Mr and Mrs R say that they didnt tick the box and that the 
form was completed by a BoS sales representative,  who failed to highlight  that the policy 
was optional. But Ive seen there  was also clearly an option to tick no to the cover. So even 
if Mr and Mrs R didnt tick the yes box themselves, I think  they wouldve understood that 
there was the option to decline the cover.  And if they didnt want  it I think they wouldve said 
something at the time. Instead Mr and Mrs R signed the form, agreeing  to its contents.  
In addition, Ive also seen a separate PPI application  form, called Home  Protector  Insurance  
Application, which was completed  electronically with Mr and Mrs Rs details and the amount 
of cover required. This form is not dated. However the details  of the PPI match  the details 
outlined in the Home  Protector Insurance Quotation, which  is dated the same day that Mr 
Ref: DRN46663102and Mrs R signed their mortgage  application. So Im persuaded that this application  form 
relates to the sale of this PPI policy and was part of the sales process in 2002.  We also sent 
a copy of this to Mr and Mrs R, who havent disputed its relevance  to the sale. Again, I 
appreciate that the application form was completed  electronically, but it was signed by both 
Mr and Mrs R  so I think  reflected what they wanted at the time.   
Mr and Mrs R say they were pressured into taking the policy.  I appreciate that they dont  
have a recording of the conversation that took place, but theyve also not given us any detail 
about why they felt pressured or provided  anything else which persuades  me that its more  
likely that not that they were pressured  into taking out the policy. So I cant fairly and 
reasonably uphold the complaint on this point.  
Mr and Mrs R say they were advised to take out the policy. BoS doesnt know if it 
recommended the policy   but its willing to treat this as an advised sale.  So, Ive also 
considered this as an advised sale. 
This means  BoS had to check  that the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs R  and based  on what  
Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. I say this because  they 
werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have  
had a need for the cover.
Mr and Mrs R say they had sufficient sick pay and savings to cover their repayments  if one 
or both of them were  unable to work.  And theyve also said that they had borrowed 
cautiously and wouldve  been able to make the mortgage repayments if one of them  wasnt 
working. But I still think they wouldve felt the impact of one of them  losing their income. Its 
likely the mortgage  wouldve  been  their most important financial commitment, and upon  a 
successful claim  the PPI wouldve helped them maintain their repayments  for up to 12 
months in the event  that one, or both, of them  were  too sick to work or made redundant. So 
this gave them some  additional security, and also meant that they couldve used their sick 
pay and savings for other debts or expenses.  So I still think  they couldve found the policy  
useful. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put them off taking out the cover.  And I 
dont think Mr and Mrs R have lost out as a result  of anything BoS may have done wrong. 
my final decision
For all the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the PPI policy  Mr and Mrs R took out in 2002  
was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4666310