K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain because ERGO Reiseversicherung  AG (ERGO) has declined a 
claim under their travel insurance policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs H had an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy,  provided by ERGO.
Mr and Mrs H were about to go on holiday when they found out Mrs Hs mother had been
taken into hospital  unexpectedly. Mr and Mrs H cancelled their trip and made  a claim under
their policy with ERGO.
ERGO wrote to Mr and Mrs H and said their claim wasnt covered. ERGO said this was
because their policy didnt  cover claims arising from pre-existing medical conditions of close
relatives which were known to the policyholder.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs H complained to ERGO. They also complained  to the business  who
administers their policy, saying theyd been given  incorrect information when theyd called to
ask for details about what they were covered for.
ERGO doesnt appear to have responded to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about  their declined
claim. Mr and Mrs H brought a complaint to this service about  both businesses  involved.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said she didnt think ERGO had done
anything wrong. Mr and Mrs H then provided  further information, which our investigator
reviewed, but this didnt change her opinion.
As Mr and Mrs H didnt  agree, their complaint about ERGO was passed  to me. I made my 
provisional decision about the complaint in February  2020.  In it, I said:
ERGO is the underwriter of Mr and Mrs Hs policy and is responsible  for the decision to
decline their claim. ERGO  is also responsible for the information contained on 
Mr and Mrs Hs key facts  document.  When making  this decision Ive only considered  what, if
anything, I think  ERGO  has done wrong.
Mr and Mr H have also complained about  the information they were  given on the telephone
by the business who administers the policy. This business  is regulated  by the Financial
Conduct Authority  in its own right and is independent of ERGO, offering  policies  provided  by
a number of insurance  companies. This business  acts in a non-advisory capacity on behalf
of the customer,  so ERGO isnt responsible  for the information given  to Mr and Mrs H during
the telephone calls theyve complained about. The business who administers the policy  has
sent its own final response letter to Mr and Mrs H.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service can only consider a complaint about one financial
business under each  complaint reference  number. So, Ive arranged  for one of our
investigators to set up a new complaint for Mr and Mrs H about the business who
administers their policy, and he will be in touch  with Mr and Mrs H directly  about this.
Turning to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about ERGO,  the terms and conditions of their policy
say;
Ref: DRN43333792Section  1 Cancellation
Cancellation applies for booked trips taking place within the period of cover that
you are forced to cancel  because of one of the following, which are beyond your
control, and of which you were unaware at the time you booked  your trip or
purchased the cover  (whichever is later).
What is covered:
We will pay up to a maximum ofbecause  of the following:
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom  you have
arranged to stay during  the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury  or, death.
The Important limitations section of the policy, which applies to cancellation  cover, says:
This policy will NOT cover any claimsarising  directly or indirectly from any pre-
existing medical condition known to you prior to the commencement  of the period
of cover affecting any close relative or travelling companion not insured under
this policy.
The policy defines  a pre-existing medical  condition as including:
any cardiovascular or circulatory condition (e.g. heart condition,  hypertension, blood
clots, raised cholesterol,  stroke, aneurysm,  brain  haemorrhage) that has occurred at
any time
The medical certificate completed by Mrs Hs mothers  doctor  says the illness  leading to
cancellation was blackout (cardiac syncope) without warning. In answer to a question
asking whether the patient has suffered from this, or a similar condition,  in the past the
doctor has written:
Yes, Aortic stenosis known since 2015  but asymptomatic.
In response to a question  about whether the present condition was related in any way to the
past condition,  the doctor  has answered:
Yes, progression of this disease over years.
As a doctor has certified that this claim is related to a previously diagnosed heart condition,
then the claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs insurance
policy.
Ive considered whether I think ERGO has applied these  terms and conditions  to the
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs claim in a fair and reasonable way.
I fully appreciate Mrs Hs mothers doctor  noted the blackout was without warning, that she
had no recent changes in medication and had no symptoms over the previous six months.
So, I understand the appearance of symptoms was sudden. I have no doubt  that 
Mr and Mrs Hs claim  was genuine  and, from their point of view, unforeseen.
But the risk which an insurer  agrees  to accept in return for the payment of a premium isnt
Ref: DRN43333793unlimited  in particular, the risk presented by non-travelling close relatives who arent
insured under a policy can be very uncertain.  An insurer is entitled to limit their exposure to
that unknown  risk. Although the claim here was unexpected,  the condition  which  led to the
claim was known to Mr and Mrs H and it therefore wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask
ERGO to provide cover  for this situation.
Ive reviewed the newspaper article which Mr and Mrs H have  provided.  The Financial
Ombudsman Service reaches conclusions based  on the specific  facts  of each individual
case, which can vary significantly. And I think the facts  of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint do vary
from the facts of the case set out in the newspaper article. I understand Mr and Mrs H would
like me to comment on the decision of the business mentioned  in the article to alter its policy
wording. However,  my role is limited to deciding whether I think  ERGO has acted fairly and
reasonably in the circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Hs specific case and I cant  comment  on
other cases or on the commercial practices  of the businesses involved more  generally.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs H have said about  the content of the key facts document.
In common with most  if not all - travel insurance policies on the market,  Mr and Mrs Hs
policy doesnt cover  pre-existing medical conditions of non-travelling  close relatives. This is
not an unusual  exclusion. But I agree with Mr and Mrs H that its a significant exclusion,  so I
therefore think it should be highlighted within the key facts document  provided by an insurer.
Mr and Mrs Hs key facts  document  refers  to exclusions for pre-existing medical conditions
of the policyholder, their travelling companions or anyone else upon whom travel  plans
depend. But the document doesnt specifically  refer to pre-existing medical conditions  of
close relatives.
However, although the specific policy exclusion wasnt highlighted to Mr and Mrs H, it
doesnt automatically follow that ERGO should pay their claim. I need to consider what  I
think Mr and Mrs H are likely to have done  if the exclusion had been  highlighted to them,  and
whether theyve been disadvantaged by ERGOs failure to do this.
I think its extremely unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have been able to find a travel  insurance
policy elsewhere which did cover  them for the circumstances  they found  themselves  in. So, I
dont think it would be fair for me to ask ERGO  to pay their claim.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs H. Its clear they feel strongly  about  what  happened and I
think its apparent they took great  care to try to understand their insurance  policy  and what it
would and wouldnt provide them with cover  for. I have sympathy for the situation they found
themselves in, but I dont intend  to recommend  that ERGO needs to do anything further.
ERGO replied to my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add. 
Mr and Mrs H responded  with additional  comments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The comments which Mr and Mrs H have made  about the business  that sold and 
administered their policy will now be considered by this service  under a separate  complaint 
reference number.  But, regardless  of what information this other business gave to them, 
Ref: DRN43333794Mr and Mrs H were entitled  to have their claim considered by the underwriter of their policy.  
Its the underwriter who is responsible for deciding whether  or not a claim is covered, but a 
medical certificate will generally be needed for claims of this nature.  
Id like to reiterate to ERGO that I think a policy exclusion  for pre-existing medical  conditions  
of close relatives is a significant one, which should be highlighted within a key facts 
document provided by an insurer. However, the Financial Ombudsman  Service  doesnt have 
the power to require  a business  to alter its processes or to change the content of the 
documentation it issues. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulates  the financial services  industry  in the UK. 
We share information with the FCA where we consider it appropriate to do so. Mr and Mrs H 
can contact the FCA directly about  the issues theyve raised if they wish,  although  the FCA 
doesnt generally investigate individual cases and is unlikely to keep Mr and Mrs H updated 
on the progress  of any action it may choose  to take.  
No insurance policy  will cover every  eventuality and claims are subject to the limitations and 
exclusions set out in the terms  and conditions. If Mrs Hs mother  had experienced a medical 
situation which was unrelated to a pre-existing medical condition,  then its likely any resulting 
claim would have been covered under Mr and Mrs Hs policy.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Hs frustration but, based on the specific circumstances of their 
complaint, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask 
ERGO to pay their claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2020.
 
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4333379