K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  is about their mortgage  account with Birmingham Midshires, a 
lending business  which is part of Bank  of Scotland plc. I will refer to the lender as BM.
Mr W, whos conducted the complaint, says that BM has miscalculated the mortgage and 
was mistakenly claiming that the mortgage  is in arrears. Because  of this, Mr W also says 
that the monthly repayments were incorrect. 
background
Mr and Mrs W have  a mortgage  and three  further  advances with BM, with the original 
borrowing totalling approximately £494,500. 
The main  mortgage  was taken out in December 2003. Mr and Mrs W borrowed £145,399  
over 11 years.
In April 2007 Mr and Mrs W borrowed a further  £151,000 over 7 years 9 months.
In October  2007 they borrowed £100,000  over 7 years 3 months.
In January 2008 they borrowed £98,000  over 7 years.
All the borrowing is on an interest-only  basis. The loan terms have now all expired but BMs 
system is set up to auto-extend a term for 12 months in order for borrowers to arrange  for 
repayment of the capital  balance. 
In December 2018 Mr W complained to BM about the way the accounts were being  
administered. He thought BM had miscalculated  the mortgage repayments, as a result of 
which BM was claiming the accounts  were in arrears. Mr W also believed  BM was charging 
too much  interest,  because of the errors made in claiming there were arrears.
In its final response letter  dated 18 January 2019, BM explained that where a mortgage  term 
is due to expire, the payments are recalculated in the final year to ensure the account 
balance is reduced  to the original amount of the interest-only borrowing. But BMs system 
will not automatically recalculate payments after the term has expired. Because fees and 
charges had accrued on the accounts,  these werent taken into consideration when  setting 
the monthly repayments.
BM recalculated the monthly payments, agreed  to amend Mr and Mrs Ws credit files and 
paid £500 compensation.
But Mr W wasnt happy with this, and still believes  BM has miscalculated his mortgage  
accounts. He brought his complaint to us.
An adjudicator looked at the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that BM had explained how the accounts were operated, and that its offer of redress  was fair 
and reasonable.  She also explained that its not our role to audit the accounts.
Mr W didnt accept the adjudicators findings.  He provided a letter  dated 18 July 2013  saying  
the accounts were  up to date. Mr W said that on one account only one payment had been 
missed from then until February 2014.  So he couldnt understand why repayments  were 
Ref: DRN41408842recalculated at that point to be £606.02 and he didnt  accept  that BMs figures in its January 
2019 final response letter were correct.
In the summer  of 2019 Mr W paid off the arrears on his accounts.  He says that hed been 
told by BM that if his calculations turn out to be correct, he will be reimbursed.
Mr W is also very unhappy  that BM has now contacted him again  about commencing 
possession action. He thought all action was on hold while the Financial Ombudsman  
Service looked at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will start by explaining  that the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt  provide  an auditing  
or actuarial service for consumers. We dont recalculate accounts. But Ive reviewed 
everything Mr W has said and also looked at the due and received ledgers provided by BM.
I also note that BM made an adjustment to the accounts on the direction of the regulator, 
because of the way it (and other  lenders in the same banking group) was administering  
arrears. But that doesnt affect the issues in this complaint.
The starting point  here is that these are interest-only accounts. The terms have expired and 
have been auto-extended  for 12 months at a time.  Where arrears  accrue,  fees and charges 
are added to the account, including (but not limited  to) arrears  administration  fees and legal 
fees, as per BMs tariff of charges.
Arrears of mortgage repayments  and fees and charges (and interest  accruing on them) dont 
form part of the mortgage balance. They have to be paid off on a repayment basis, before 
the end of the mortgage term  whether that is the term under the original contract  (if it 
hasnt expired) or, as in Mr and Mrs Ws case, by the end of any term extension.
The reason  for this is to ensure that at the end of the mortgage  term, the capital balance  to 
be repaid is the amount originally borrowed.
Mr W is relying on a letter  dated  18 July 2013 as his proof that there are no arrears on the 
accounts. But that doesnt include fees,  charges or interest on them. And in the six-and-a-
half years  since  that letter  was sent, the position on the accounts changed. From October 
2013 the accounts fell into arrears again and remained so until the arears were cleared in 
June of 2019.
Ive reviewed the payments due and received statements received from BM, updated to the 
end of 2019. Im satisfied  these accurately reflect payments made  to the account. As 
explained above, Im not going to audit the accounts. If Mr and Mrs W want to appoint their 
own independent auditor,  they are free to do so, but this will be at their own expense.  If their 
auditor is able to identify  any errors  that are the fault of BM, then Mr and Mrs W will be free 
to complain about that and claim the reasonable costs of obtaining  an auditors report. But 
from the figures provided, Ive seen nothing in the payments due and received ledgers to 
suggest theres been a mistake by BM.
Ref: DRN41408843This means  that Im unable to uphold the complaint. I appreciate Mr and Mrs W will be 
disappointed, but I can assure them  that Ive given careful  consideration to everything 
theyve said. I understand  Mr Ws strength of feeling  about  this, but in all the circumstances, 
Im unable to find that BM has done  anything wrong.
In closing, I would be remiss  if I did not remind Mr and Mrs W that, because these 
mortgages have  now expired, they will need  to make arrangements to repay the capital 
balances, in line with the mortgage  contracts. The terms have been extended to 6 August 
2020 for the main mortgage, and for the further  advances to 9 August  2020, 16 July 2020 
and 28 July 2020. BM is under no obligation  to continue to grant  any further  extensions.
Given this, Mr and Mrs W should be thinking  now about how they will repay  the capital by 
the due dates. They may want to take independent  financial  advice  about  their options. I 
must also remind Mr and Mrs W that, in the event  they are unable to repay  the capital, BM is 
entitled to pursue recovery through the courts. Where a mortgage term has expired,  the 
courts powers to assist  borrowers are very limited. In the circumstances, I would urge 
Mr and Mrs W to maintain  an open dialogue with BM about their repayment plans, in order  to 
avoid recovery action.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4140884