K820x#14complaint
Miss D says that Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a regular premium payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
Miss D took out a mortgage with Lloyds  in 1997 and at the same time took out a PPI policy. 
In 1999 Miss D took out a further advance on her mortgage and increased  the cover  on her 
PPI policy  in line with the further  lending. The policy covered her mortgage payments if Miss 
D was unable to work  due to accident or sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think their complaint should be upheld.  He thought she made it clear in 
the mortgage application she wanted  the policy and it wouldve suited her needs at the time.  
Miss D disagrees, she says she didnt need  the cover.
So her complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ds complaint.
The policy was sold during a meeting with a sales adviser.  Lloyds had to make it clear the 
PPI was optional  and not a condition of the lending. Miss D says this wasnt done but hasnt 
given us much detail about what  was said during the meeting to make  her think  this. But I 
think thats understandable as the PPI was sold a while  ago. So Ive relied more on what the 
documents from the sale show.
Ive seen a copy  of Miss Ds initial mortgage application form. Within the application form 
theres a separate section that deals with PPI. It gives the option to either  select  to take PPI 
or decline it with a tick box next to both options.  I can see that a tick has been  placed in the 
box to select PPI
.
Given the importance of the financial commitment Miss D was making I think its likely  she 
read the application form before signing it. And because Miss D signed  the mortgage  
application form after the section on PPI I think its likely  she wouldve seen the different 
options available in relation to PPI and understood  she had a choice in taking it.
And Miss D again chose  to take PPI in 1999 because in the further advance application she 
was given the option to select or decline PPI and I can see that the box was ticked to take 
PPI and Miss D then went on to sign the application  form. 
Lloyds advised  Miss D to take the policy. What  this means is that Lloyds not only had to 
provide information  about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Miss D could 
make an informed choice  about buying PPI. It also had to make  sure that if it was to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for her needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN43357992I dont know if Lloyds  did take all the steps it shouldve.  But I think PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss D for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been  caught by any 
of the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made it 
difficult to make  a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Miss D says she were  entitled to a good level of sick pay and had 
savings she could  use to make her repayments  if she couldnt work. But a successful 
claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top of this and covered her for up to 12 months 
if she was unable  to work  due to accident or sickness, or if she lost her job. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Miss D in her circumstances 
especially considering  she was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if she was unable to meet her repayments I think  
she wouldve been interested  in protecting them.  
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to Miss D at the time. 
And if she decided she no longer wanted  the policy she couldve cancelled it.
I also need to consider  whether Lloyds  gave Miss D information in a way which was clear,  
fair and not misleading so that she could make a proper choice about whether or not she 
wanted to take the policy  out. I dont  know  if Lloyds did give all the information as it 
shouldve. But for the same reasons  that the policy  was suitable and based on what  Miss D 
has told us about  her circumstances at the time, I think she wouldve still taken out the policy  
if shed been given all the proper information.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Miss D.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint  against Lloyds Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 October  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4335799