K820x#14complaint
L, a limited company, complains that National  Westminster Bank Plc did not allow it to retain 
the net proceeds of the sale of a property held as security  for borrowing resulting in financial 
loss.
background
L had existing  borrowing  facilities  with NatWest, largely on overdraft. NatWest told it in 2012 
that it would  not agree  to increase that borrowing. L says that it had discussions with the 
relationship manager about selling a secured property and freeing up funds. L considered 
that the relationship manager  had agreed. But when the funds were received in February  
2013 NatWest  retained most of them. And so it told L that this meant it would be reducing 
the overdraft facility. L says it could not pay an overseas  supplier and lost business. L wants  
significant compensation for its financial loss which it said could amount to a six figure  sum 
but would  need to be confirmed by forensic accountants. NatWest disputes that it made this 
commitment to L and is responsible for any loss.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-He wouldnt be in a position to determine  what was said in the meeting with the 
relationship manager  who had left NatWest in 2013 and had not given his account  of 
what had happened.
-There were  no notes  in the business  file at NatWest about the discussions with the 
relationship manager  and L and what, if anything,  NatWest had agreed to. 
-Hed reviewed emails  between Ls solicitor, L and NatWest around  the time of sale. 
There was nothing  in these to show that L was going to be able to retain all of the 
money. And Ls solicitor neither questioned  nor stated  what  was expected.
-There was no correspondence  about L questioning what  had been said until a 
complaint some  years later.
-L was issued  with an overdraft facility letter for the reduced amount  dated 27 
February 2013 and which it accepted on 9 April 2013. This suggested L then agreed 
to what had been proposed.
L did not agree and has legal representation in this complaint. The representative  said that L 
was not able to retrieve  all the relevant emails  from that time and it showed evidence  that a 
computer had been damaged. But it expected  NatWest to have  kept these especially as it 
knew about the issue. It did provide an agenda for a meeting with NatWest in September 
2012 which included  items covering the sale of the property and contracting  with the 
important overseas supplier. L maintained that using  the sale proceeds as working  capital 
was discussed.  And that it was asked to produce cash  flows  showing amongst other things 
how the funds  from sale would be used - copies  of which it has supplied to this service.  The 
importance of using these proceeds  was shown and that L had already placed orders with 
the overseas supplier  and was seriously financially exposed. When NatWest  was asked in 
January and February 2013 about the sale proceeds  its answers  were  misleading at best. 
The representative also said that there  were  a few factual errors with the investigators 
opinion but that it reserved all rights on these  going forward.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN41258272There is a substantial amount of detail about the history of this borrowing provided as part of 
this complaint by both by L and NatWest.  L has not made clear which parts  of the factual  
summary of the history by our investigator  it disagrees with and bearing in mind these events 
now took place  some seven years  ago. And I dont  consider I need to go into detail about 
that history in any event  but can focus on what I need to make  findings on to resolve this 
complaint. Ill do that based on the balance of probabilities as I wont  be able to say exactly  
what happened.
The key issue to me here is whether  there was any commitment on the part of NatWest 
regarding the sales proceeds from the property. While Im satisfied based  on what  Ive seen 
that retaining proceeds was discussed by L with NatWest Ive not seen anything  to convince 
me that there was any commitment given.  There are no notes about this in the business file 
and frankly given the import for L I would  have expected any binding arrangement to have 
been documented. Having said that I dont doubt  that L wanted and expected  to be able to 
use these funds to help finance working  capital and so had produced  the projections Ive 
seen showing the improvement in trading this could bring.
There are a number of related points which I think important in setting the context for what 
happened here. L had given security including a debenture to support all its borrowing from 
NatWest. The majority of that borrowing was effectively on demand through an overdraft and 
my understanding is that it was due for review in January 2013.  And L accepts  that there 
was a delay in the sale of the property and that 2012 was a difficult trading year. It is 
possible that NatWests  credit appetite for providing  borrowing changed during the period 
and that only a credit application at the time of review would confirm its then stance.
L exchanged contracts on the sale on 18 January 2013 but the emails about the use of 
those proceeds that Ive been referred to come after that. The reality was that NatWest was 
in theory  entitled  to all of the funds from the sale of the property given it was held as security. 
And that it was also not compelled  to continue the existing level of borrowing in any event.  
Thats despite any positive indications that L was I accept likely given during 2012. 
It may also be that L felt compelled to accept what NatWest was then prepared  to offer 
formally in 2013. The time that the funds remained on a savings account and before the new 
facility letter  was signed is indicative of some further discussion. Ive not though seen clear 
evidence as I might have expected of L then explicitly  documenting that NatWest  had gone 
back on its commitment  given what  it says are the serious implications. And that might  have  
then been easier  to resolve and evidence  with all the contemporaneous information. But I 
also understand that it might be easier for L to make and refer this complaint to us now as 
its been able to refinance its borrowing.  During  a period of financial strain  it was reliant on 
maintaining a relationship with NatWest. And the documentation shows that NatWest  did in 
2014 offer L higher overdraft borrowing again  in line with the level in 2012.  Ls bank 
statements show L used  this facility and increased  borrowing by January 2014 back to the 
level seen in January 2013.
Taking all these factors into account Im afraid I dont have a basis  to say that NatWest made 
a mistake as I dont find it made a commitment that L could hold it to. And so I cant  then 
reasonably go on to consider the financial impact  for L of not being able to use the sales  
proceeds for working capital. 
I know that L has previously indicated it might  take legal action and it remains  free to do so if 
it doesnt accept  my decision subject to any relevant time limits.
Ref: DRN41258273my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4125827