K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1995 Mrs S bought PPI at the same time as she applied for a mortgage in one of the
banks branches.  The policy gave her protection against accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment. She paid a monthly  amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed so the complaint  was passed 
to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete (as some 
of it is here), I base  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what  I 
consider is most likely given the available evidence and what  we know about how Halifax  
sold PPI at the time. 
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint and I know  she will be disappointed  by this. I 
note Mrs S felt the adjudicators review  was very one-sided and unjust. However,  we are an 
independent and impartial organisation and we dont  act on behalf of either  a consumer or a 
business. There is no benefit for us to find in favour of one party over another.  
Ill explain  why Ive reached my decision.
Halifax had to make it clear to Mrs S that the PPI was optional, and she had to agree to take 
it out. Mrs S says she didnt realise she had a choice. The bank disputes this, saying its 
more likely than not that the optional nature was verbally explained in good  time before the 
sale concluded.
I cant know what was said in the meeting and Halifax no longer has Mrs Ss paperwork from 
the sale. But thats not surprising or unreasonable as it was over 20 years  ago. Ive thought 
carefully about Mrs Ss comments, but I also have  to take into account  how long ago the 
meeting was and how that might affect  what she recalls. Understandably she hasnt been 
able to give much detail about  the sale. 
Overall, without stronger evidence that Halifax  didnt  make Mrs S aware the PPI was 
optional and she didnt  agree to take it out, I cant fairly uphold  Mrs Ss complaint on this 
point.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs S and I think it seems to have been  right for her based
on what Ive seen. Mrs S was entitled  some sick pay but the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any work benefits  for up to 12 months for all accident  and sickness claims. It also 
gave her up to 12 months redundancy cover.
Mrs S told us she had life insurance  but this offers a different kind of protection  and wouldnt 
help with monthly mortgage repayments  in the same way as PPI. She also said family and 
Ref: DRN48465732her partner would have helped but thats not suitable alternative protection,  its not 
guaranteed and peoples  circumstances  can change.
Mrs S was borrowing quite a large sum over a long period, secured on her home. Given how 
serious the effects of not keeping up with her mortgage repayments could have been, I think 
the PPI would have been useful for Mrs S if she was sick, had an accident  or lost her job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mrs S all the information she needed before she decided to 
buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was made  clear  but the PPI was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable. And Mrs S doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the 
main exclusions  or limitations  (such  as those affecting people  with pre-existing medical 
conditions or on certain types of employment contract). Overall, I dont think better
information wouldve  changed her decision.
It follows I dont think Mrs S has lost out because  of any problems  with this sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept
or reject my decision before 19 August 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4846573