K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Inter Partner Assistance  SA (IPA)  declined a claim made on his travel 
insurance policy.
background
In early 2019 Mr M booked a three  day break in the UK, paying  for the accommodation  up 
front. On the day he was meant to travel, he says the road travel agency  issued  a severe 
weather warning, and advised  that travel within the area he was meant to be staying in 
should be avoided  unless absolutely necessary. He also says the roads  around  the area 
where he lived were hazardous. So he didnt set off for his trip.
Mr M tried to claim back the cost of the accommodation under his travel insurance  policy. 
That claim was declined  because IPA said the policy didnt cover unused accommodation 
costs if a trip is cancelled  due to adverse weather conditions. 
Mr M says IPA has unfairly applied the terms of the policy so complained  to us. Our 
investigator didnt  think  IPA had done anything wrong. Mr M disagrees so his complaint has 
been passed to me to look at everything  afresh and to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. Ill 
explain why.
Subject to the remaining  terms of the policy, IPA will pay for any irrecoverable unused  travel 
and accommodation  costs (as well as other pre-paid changes  which  the policyholder has 
paid or is contracted to pay) if:
a)cancellation of the trip is necessary and unavoidable; or
b)the trip is curtailed before completion;  as a result of any of the following changes  in 
circumstances, which is beyond your control, and of which you were unaware  at the 
time you booked your trip:
1.    unforeseen illness, injury or death of you or a close relative;
2.    your compulsory quarantine, jury service attendance  or being called as a witness at a 
       court of law
3.    the withdrawal  of your leave as a member of the Armed Forces  provided that such  
       cancellation or curtailment could not reasonably  have been expected at the time of 
       receiving these benefits or booking your trip (whichever is the later).
Mr M says the severe weather conditions  meant  it was necessary and unavoidable to cancel 
his planned trip, particularly  given  the advice from the road travel  agency. So he says IPA 
should honour his claim under section (a) referred  to above.
I completely understand why Mr M chose  not to travel given the circumstances. But section 
(a) cant be read in isolation;  it forms part of a wider clause. 
Im satisfied that the use of the semi-colon  after the words the trip is curtailed before 
completion (the semi-colon) in section (b) means that the rest of the clause immediately 
Ref: DRN41486812after the semi-colon  also applies to section (a). And as Mr M didnt cancel his trip for any of 
the reasons set out at 1-3 of the clause, I dont think IPA has unfairly declined his claim.
When making this finding Ive taken on board what Mr M says about the ordinary person 
reading the clause.  And that they would understand section (a) to be a standalone reason for 
cancelling the policy and not in any way connected  to the reasons  set out at 1-3, later in the 
clause. I disagree.
If (a) was a standalone section there would be no need for the semi-colon.  Further,  I dont 
think the third reason  would mention cancellation  - as well as curtailment - if that reason (and 
reasons 1 and 2) only related to section (b), which is about curtailment.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4148681