K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  her payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
in connection  with her mortgage.
background
In 1996 Miss L took out a mortgage with Halifax - which later became  part of 
Bank of Scotland  during a meeting at one of its branches. At the same  time Miss L took out 
PPI to cover her income and protect  her mortgage  payments in the event she couldnt work 
through accident, sickness or if she lost her job.
The policy cost £9.66 a month  and it provided a benefit  to approximately match Miss Ls 
monthly mortgage payment of £200  per month.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
Miss Ls mortgage and the PPI policy ended in 2010.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Ls complaint. The adjudicator said the evidence showed 
that Miss L chose to take out the PPI and there  was nothing to indicate  shed lost out as a 
result.
Miss L disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Bank of Scotland says this was an advised  sale. So it not only had to provide Miss L with 
enough information about the policy so she could make an informed decision about it. It also 
had to ensure  the policy was right or suitable for her based on her needs  and circumstances  
at the time. Ive taken this into account  in my consideration of the case.
This isnt an easy complaint to decide.  There is limited evidence  available  from the time of 
the sale, around 23 years ago. So, I must  carefully  weigh  up what  is available  to me when  
reaching my decision.
did Bank of Scotland make it clear to Miss L that she had a choice  about PPI?
The PPI policy was sold in April 1996. Both Bank of Scotland  and Miss L say it was sold in a 
branch. I dont know what Bank of Scotland said to Miss L but I do have the mortgage  and 
PPI application  forms from the time. The mortgage application form shows  that Bank of 
Scotland recommended the PPI to Miss L, and there  are two options on the form to say yes 
she wanted it or no she didnt. Miss L has marked the yes box and signed next to it. She has 
also signed the PPI application  form which details the cost and benefit of the PPI. 
Ref: DRN42754002This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Miss Ls complaint) it is more  likely 
than not Bank of Scotland presented the policy to Miss L as compulsory or that it didnt tell 
her about  the policy at all. So I think Miss L understood she had a choice  and chose to take 
the PPI.
did things  happen  as they should have done  was Miss  L properly advised and 
informed?
if not  has Miss L lost out?
I dont know what Bank  of Scotland said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Miss L. I 
also dont know what information  Miss L was given  about PPI, for example, whether she was 
told about the significant exclusions and limitations  of cover.  I find it unlikely Miss L agreed to 
take the cover out without knowing anything about it, but I dont know if she received 
everything she needed to know to allow her to make an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when 
Bank of Scotland recommended to Miss L that she take out PPI. I accept Miss L may not 
have been treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Miss L has lost out as a result.  I say this 
because, given Miss Ls circumstances  and needs at the time, I think  the policy cover was 
suitable for her. And I find it unlikely that Miss L would have acted differently and not gone  
ahead with the cover if Bank of Scotland had given her more  information. My reasons are as 
follows:
Miss L was eligible  for the cover and all its benefits
Miss L was employed and in good  health  at the time, so it doesnt appear  she would 
have been affected  by any of the key exclusions  / limitations  of the cover such as 
existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms.
Miss L was buying the house on her own. I note that Miss L had up to 6 months of 
sick pay entitlement from her employer,  which could have  helped  her make  the 
mortgage payments  if Miss L was off work  ill. But the policy  would have paid out in 
addition to Miss Ls sick pay and for longer than her employer if necessary  up to 12 
months for each  claim. Miss L had no savings and had limited  other  means to help 
her if she lost her job. So I think Miss L had a need for cover and that it would have 
been useful to her if Miss L found  she was unable  to work. It could have helped her 
financially at what would be a difficult time - it could have helped her protect  her 
home.
I find it unlikely Miss L would have agreed  to something without having some  
understanding of the cost and I note that the cost is shown clearly  on the PPI 
application form she signed. And I think  its unlikely she would have declined it solely 
on the basis of its cost had it been  made  clearer to her. Ive already said she had a 
need for it and at approximately £10 per month it appears to have  been  affordable.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and 
Miss L may not have been  treated fairly and reasonably by Bank of Scotland in its dealings  
with her, I find shes not lost out. This is because, on balance,  for the reasons  Ive detailed 
above, I think Miss L would have  been in the same position if Bank  of Scotland had done 
more and properly  advised and informed  her - I think she would have still taken out the PPI.
Which means Bank of Scotland  doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss L.
Ref: DRN42754003But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss L because:  
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss L about that. Because Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Miss L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss L.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Miss L any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss L to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4275400