K821x#15Complaint
Miss H complains that Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited (trading  as Very) made a 
mistake when she asked  to reduce her direct  debit payment which  led to her account  being 
defaulted. 
Background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 25 March  2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought Miss Hs complaint should be upheld. I 
invited both parties to send me any additional information  or comments  they wanted me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.  
Miss H responded  to say she accepted my provisional decision. Miss H told us she paid off 
the outstanding balance  when she was made  aware  it had been  passed to a third party. As a 
result, the part of the settlement where  I said Very needed to retrieve the debt and discuss  
an affordable repayment  plan isnt required. Miss H reiterated that the impact  on her credit 
file is the important issue for her. 
Very responded  but didnt accept my provisional decision. Very accepted  that it failed to 
make Miss H aware  that she needed to make a manual first payment after agreeing the 
payment plan. But it says Miss H should have noticed the error when it failed to take the £36 
payment from her bank  account. Very also says it sent Miss H statements that showed the 
payments werent  being made.  Very asked me to reconsider  my provisional  decision to 
uphold the complaint. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I still remain  of the view that Miss Hs 
complaint should  be upheld.  
Im not persuaded its fair to expect Miss H to highlight  the various mistakes made by Verys  
advisor after she called to agree a payment arrangement. There were a number of errors. 
The advisor failed  to clearly explain that Miss H needed to start the payment arrangement  by 
making a manual payment  on 2 December 2016.  The advisor then failed to set up the 
payment arrangement where by Miss H would pay £36 a month. As a result  of the plan not 
being set up, Very failed  to write to her setting out the details of the payment arrangement it 
had agreed. As a result, there was no clear set of instructions provided so I can understand 
why Miss H failed to make the agreed  payments.  
Very says Miss H should have noticed it wasnt taking £36 a month  from her current  account 
and contacted it. But the sum in question is reasonably modest and there was no advice  
from the advisor Miss H spoke to that said she should check  her statements in the months  
that followed to ensure  Very had correctly set the plan up. I understand Very sent Miss H 
statements but Ive already said in my provisional decision that she has told us she wasnt 
always staying at the registered address so wasnt  aware  of the letters  Very sent. Im 
satisfied Miss H should have been able to rely on Very to provide a clear  set of instructions 
and follow  through  on what was agreed.  Its clear Very failed to do that here. Im also 
Ref: DRN47900362satisfied the impact of Verys failure  to correctly  explain and set up the payment arrangement  
led to a default being recorded on Miss Hs credit  file. I remain of the view that the fairest 
way to resolve this complaint is for the adverse information reported, after Miss H spoke with 
Very, to be removed  from her credit file. 
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision and above,  I still intend to uphold  
Miss Hs complaint and direct Very to remove any adverse information it has reported after 
28 November 2016 and pay her £150  for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
actions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited (trading as Very) to do the following: 
-Remove any adverse  information reported on Miss Hs credit  file after 
28 November 2016
-Pay Miss H £150  (less  any compensation already  paid) for the distress and 
inconvenience caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN47900363Copy of Provisional Decision  dated  25 March 2020
Complaint
Miss H complains that Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited (trading  as Very) made a 
mistake when she asked  to reduce her direct  debit payment which  led to her account  being 
defaulted. 
Background
On 28 November 2016 Miss H called Very as she wanted to reduce her regular direct debit 
payment. During  the call, Miss H confirmed she had previously agreed to make  payments of 
£100 a month to her account.  The first person Miss H spoke  with cancelled the existing 
direct debit and then transferred her to the team that deals with payment plans. 
Miss H discussed her income and outgoings with the payment plan team.  An agreement for 
Miss H to pay £36 for eight months  was made.  The call handler at Very said the first 
payment was due on 2 December 2016.  But due to an error, the payment plan wasnt set up 
and no payments were  collected from Miss H. 
Over the following months Very wrote to the address it had for Miss H as her account went  
into arrears. After payments werent made, Very took the decision of defaulting the account.  
Miss H later complained and Very responded on 9 May 2017. Very didnt uphold the 
complaint. Whilst it agreed  an error had been made,  Very noted that Miss H had failed to 
make the first payment due on 2 December 2016 which  means her payment  plan would 
always have failed.
Miss H referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator agreed that Very had made mistakes but thought its decision to default the 
account was reasonable.  Miss H responded to say she hadnt been living at the registered 
address permanently so didnt  know about  Verys letters  until it was too late. Miss H asked to 
appeal so her complaint  has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I can understand why Miss H is upset. She called Very to request a temporary reduction in 
her regular monthly payments and was told that had been  done. But errors  at Very meant 
the new payment  arrangement of £36 wasnt put in place. Very didnt provide clear guidance 
to Miss H after agreeing  to set up a new payment arrangement and didnt write to her with 
details of the new payment arrangement as promised. Instead  of reducing her payments to 
an affordable level,  Miss Hs account  was defaulted which  has impacted her credit  file. 
Ive listened to the 28 November 2016  call and Miss H was told a new arrangement of £36 a 
month would  be put in place. But I dont think the process  for setting up a new payment 
arrangement was clearly  explained. During the first part of the call, Verys  call handler said 
she would  cancel the existing direct debit  as the amount  it collected  couldnt be changed. 
That call handler went on to transfer Miss H to a different person who completed an income 
and expenditure  assessment and said a new payment arrangement of £36 had been set up. 
Ref: DRN47900364Whilst Verys call handlers told Miss H that a payment of £36 was due by 2 December  2016,  
they didnt make it clear  that she would have to pay that manually. Ive listened  to the section 
of the call where payments were discussed  several  times. Id have expected  to hear the call 
handler specifically  tell Miss H how she needed to make a manual payment by 
2 December 2016 and run through  the different ways she could do that. Id also have 
expected Very to tell Miss H how to set up a new direct  debit  payment. But that information 
wasnt provided. 
This situation was compounded by the call handlers  failure to set up the agreed £36 
payment plan after Miss Hs call. At the end of the discussion  about the new payment 
arrangement, the call handler  said she would write  to Miss H to confirm  the new details and 
what would  happen  next. But Very didnt  put the details of the payment arrangement or the 
requirement to make  a manual payment by 2 December 2016 in writing to Miss H so she 
couldnt check shed  followed  the instructions correctly. In addition,  I dont think  Verys call 
handlers made it clear  Miss H needed to set up a new direct debit to make future payments. 
After the 2 December  2016 payment wasnt made  Very started writing to Miss H. And as the 
arrears level built, Very continued to send Miss H important information  about her account.  
In February 2017,  when  no payment  had been made for around three months,  Very took the 
decision to default  the account.  
Miss H has told us that she doesnt  always stay at the registered address which meant  she 
wasnt aware that Very had written to her. I appreciate Very did write to Miss H about  the 
arrears and subsequent decision to default. But I also have to take into account that Miss H 
thought a payment arrangement had been set up and believed her account  was in order. 
She wasnt actively looking for post about arrears or a possible default at this time. In 
addition, Miss H wasnt actively  using  her Very account, she was trying to repay  the 
outstanding balance via a payment arrangement. So I dont  think she wouldve seen that 
payments hadnt  been received. 
If Very had made it clear  to Miss H that she needed  to make a manual payment by 
2 December 2016 and had checked  she understood the different ways of paying, Id agree 
that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. But, having  listened to the call, Im satisfied Very 
failed to clearly explain  the next steps to Miss H. It also failed  to send that information  to 
Miss H in writing as promised. Had Verys  call handler done that, I think Miss H wouldve 
made the payment by 2 December 2016  and set up a new direct debit to cover the rest of 
the payment arrangement.  
I intend to uphold Miss Hs complaint and put her back  into the position she would have been 
in had the payment arrangement been clearly explained and put in place by Very.  Had those 
two things happened, Im satisfied Miss H would  have repaid her outstanding balance 
without missing payments  or defaulting  her account. So I intend  to tell Very to remove  the 
default and arrears information from Miss Hs credit file. Very sold the debt to a third party  in 
2017. Very should take steps to recover  the debt from the third party  so that a new payment  
arrangement can be considered for Miss H. Very should then complete an income and 
expenditure assessment with Miss H and, if affordable, agree a new repayment plan. 
Ref: DRN47900365In its final response dated 9 May 2017 Very said it had sent Miss H a cheque for £25 to 
apologise for the failure to set up the payment arrangement. But I dont  think  that fairly 
reflects the length of time this situation  has gone  on or the default thats been registered 
against Miss H. Its clear Miss H is concerned  about her credit  score and Im satisfied she 
received poor service  when she called Very for help. As a result, I intend to increase the 
level of award for the trouble and upset caused  to Miss H from £25 to £150.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold Miss Hs 
complaint and direct Shop  Direct Finance Company Limited to do the following: 
-Remove any adverse  information reported on Miss Hs credit  file after 
28 November 2016
-Take steps to retrieve the debt from the third party  it was sold to in 2017
-Review affordable  options for repayment of the outstanding balance  with Miss H and 
set up a new payment  arrangement
-Pay Miss H £150  (less  any compensation already  paid) for the distress and 
inconvenience caused
Miss H and Very have until 25 April to send me any additional comments  or information they 
would like me to consider  before I make my final decision. 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4790036