K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that a car he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited  (SMFL) was not of satisfactory quality. He wants the car 
repaired at no cost to him and a refund for the repairs  and diagnostics  reports  he's already 
paid for.
background
Mr H entered in a HPA with SMFL on 17 April 2018. He says that on his first journey in the 
car, when  it went over 40mph it began to shake. He says he stopped the car and called the 
dealership, and it told him the wheels most likely needed rebalancing. So Mr H took the 
wheels to be rebalanced, but was told this was not the issue.
Mr H contacted the dealership again, and a warranty claim was opened during which  Mr H 
continued to use the car. He says he was then told that the warranty company didn't have an 
approved repairer  in the area and so he went to a third party garage for a diagnostics check. 
This garage  suggested  the issue could be with the dual mass flywheel. So, following  further  
contact with dealer,  it was agreed the car would be tested. After this was done, although a 
possible issue with the dual mass  flywheel  was identified, Mr H says the dealership refused 
to pay for this given  the miles he had driven.
On 13 June, Mr H says he was stopped  by the police because  his rear wheels were  
wobbling and at an odd angle.  He took the car to a garage and was told the rear bearing 
suspension arms had collapsed and the rear tyres  were wearing  unevenly.  He was also told 
that the car shaking was believed to be due to the dual mass  flywheel and clutch.
SMFL says that the car Mr H acquired through a HPA had a recorded  mileage of over 
95,100. It says Mr H first contacted it about  his concerns in June 2018, and that he had 
taken the car to have the wheels rebalanced but this hadn't resolved the issue of the car 
juddering. It says Mr H took the car for a diagnostics  test on 18 June,  but did not liaise with 
dealer before doing this. It says at this point Mr H had driven the car 3,500 miles. The 
garage reported issues with the upper suspension arms and a tyre wearing unevenly.
SMFL says that, given  the miles Mr H had covered, these issues were due to wear  and tear, 
and not because the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to him. It also 
says that there was no evidence that the dual mass flywheel  and clutch needed to be 
replaced. 
Further diagnostics were  carried out on 20 June, and a fault traced to the dual mass flywheel 
was found. But again this was considered  wear  and tear. An independent inspection was 
then carried out, and this was unable  to confirm a fault with the clutch  operation  or gear 
selection.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He believed the most detailed  report  was the 
independent inspection report, and that this did not find an issue  with the clutch  or dual mass  
flywheel. So he said he could not conclude that there  were  issues  with the car that were  
present at the point of supply.
Mr H did not accept our investigator's  view. He made the following points:
Ref: DRN42567352that he was told the car underwent a 100 point check  before delivery, but this couldn't be 
the case given  the issues he had experienced;
he reported the fault straight away and has been told on a number  of occasions that it is 
still safe to drive,  which is why he has covered the mileage he has;
the inspection  report was not thorough and the underside of the car was not checked.
He said the car was not fit for purpose  at the point of supply and he shouldn't be required to 
pay for the repairs to make it so.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr H experienced the car shaking on the day he took it home, and this issue  has 
continued (I noted the reason for the police stopping Mr H and that the inspection 
report noted vibration  at certain speeds);
Mr H continued to drive the car and had covered around 3,500 miles by the time the 
independent inspection report took place,  but as he was not told to stop driving  the 
car I found his actions  reasonable;
two months after acquisition, the suspension  arms  needed  to be replaced;
issues continued and a diagnostics report suggested a fault with the dual mass  
flywheel/clutch;
the clutch could  be considered a wear and tear item. But given Mr H raised  the issue  
of the car vibrating on day one of possession, and having had to have the 
suspension arms replaced after two months,  I found it reasonable to accept that 
there were faults with the car that were  present or developing at the point of supply;
the inspection  report did not confirm the issue with the dual mass flywheel and clutch,  
but said that further investigation was needed;
Mr H provided  opportunities for the car to be repaired and I thought  the fair resolution  
was to now allow Mr H to reject  the car; 
along with being allowed to reject  the car I thought it fair that Mr H be refunded the 
cost of repairs he had carried out and the cost of diagnostics  tests; 
Mr H mentioned that he had to pay for a hire car while his own car was unavailable. I 
thought this cost,  subject to an invoice being  provided, should also be refunded.  I 
also thought he should be paid £100  compensation.
SMFL did not accept  my provisional  decision.  It said there was no evidence that Mr Hs car 
was shaking on the day of acquisition  and that Mr H raised his concerns two months later 
having driven over 3,500 miles.  It said the evidence provided does not support the issues 
being present  or developing at the point of supply  and noted that the car passed an MOT in 
April 2018. It reiterated the comments in the independent inspection report  that said on the 
balance of probabilities the conditions with the car would not have been  developing at the 
point of supply.
Ref: DRN42567353In regard to my comment that Mr H should  be allowed to reject  the car, SMFL said that he 
had raised his complaint more than 30 days after acquisition. It said that if evidence was 
provided of the issues being present at the point  of supply then the dealer had a right to 
carry out repairs.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
My role is to consider each case based  on its merits. I take relevant  regulations  into 
consideration but my decision is made  based  on what  I consider fair and reasonable given 
the unique circumstances of each complaint.
Mr H entered into a HPA with SMFL  to acquire  a used  car. Under  the regulations, SMFL is 
liable if the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes 
into account the age and mileage of the car. In this case, the car was registered in 
September 2013 and had been driven  95,100 miles at the point of acquisition.
I have considered the comments  made  by SMFL both through  the investigation and in 
response to my provisional  decision. 
SMFL says that there is no evidence that the car was shaking when Mr H first drove  it. 
However, Mr H has explained that he noticed the issue on his first drive and contacted the 
dealer about this. He was told to have  the wheels rebalanced but when  he did this he was 
told this was not the issue.
Then within two months of acquiring the car he was stopped by the police due to the car 
wobbling. He then had repairs to the suspension carried out on 18 June, two months  after 
acquisition. 
Based on the evidence  I have seen I accept Mr Hs comments  in regard to the issues and I 
find that this is supported  by his actions of having  the wheel balancing checked and then the 
repairs to the suspension.
SMFL said that there is no evidence that the issues were developing at the point of supply 
and has reiterated  the comments in the inspection report conclusion. However the inspection 
report does record a vibration and although it comments  on the miles driven  before  the 
report I accept that the issue  occurred much  earlier. I also note that Mr H has gained  other  
diagnostics that go against the results of the inspection  report.
As I set out in my provisional  decision the evidence is conflicting in this case. But on 
balance, I find it more  likely than not that the issues were present or developing at the point 
of supply. I say this given  the short period between when  Mr H acquired the car and when 
the issues were noted.   
Finally, SMFL says that instead of Mr H being allowed to reject the car the dealer should be 
provided with a right to repair. I know that Mr H did not raise  his issues with SMFL within the 
Ref: DRN42567354first 30 days  however he has said he contacted the dealer  straight away  and then acted on 
its advice in regard  to the wheel rebalancing. 
In this case, I think that Mr H has provided enough opportunities for the issues to be 
repaired. He has raised the issues on different occasions and had diagnostics tests  carried  
out. He has then had repairs carried out at his own cost. Because of this I think it is now fair 
that he is allowed  to reject the car.
Therefore, as I set out in my provisional decision, I think  it fair that Mr H is allowed to reject 
the car. Along with this, Mr H should  be refunded the costs  of repairs  and diagnostics test he 
has paid for and any hire car charges he incurred while his car was not available.  Mr H has 
continued to have use of the car so I find it reasonable  that he has continued to make his 
repayments.
Mr H has been caused inconvenience through this process as he has had the wheels  
rebalanced on the suggestion of the dealer which did not resolve the issue. He has then had 
to have diagnostic  tests carried out along  with repairs.  So I find that £100 compensation is 
reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve matters.  Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited should:
1.cancel Mr H's HPA with nothing further  to pay;
2.collect the car at no cost to Mr H;
3.there is no deposit recorded on the agreement but in the event a deposit  was paid this 
should be refunded;
4.refund  Mr H's the cost of repairs and diagnostics  test carried  out (subject to invoices 
being provided);
5.refund  the cost of the hire car Mr H paid for while his own car was unavailable (subject to 
invoice);
6.pay Mr H £100 compensation for the trouble and upset he has been caused.
Items 3, 4 and 5 are subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
If Specialist Motor Finance Limited considers  that it's required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr H how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4256735