K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc unfairly terminated and defaulted her 
finance agreement  when she fell behind with repayments  due to illness.  She wants the 
agreement reinstated  and the default  removed from her credit file.
background
Mrs H tells us that due to an illness she was unable  to meet the contractual  payments on her 
conditional sale agreement. She says that when she came to repay the arrears,  she found 
that the debt had already  been transferred to a debt collector and the agreement terminated. 
She explains that she didnt receive  any notice that Santander  intended to take these 
actions.
Santander told us that Mrs Hs agreement had entered into arrears  in December 2018. It 
said it had tried to contact Mrs H through letters and voice mail. And that a default letter had 
been sent. It said Mrs H hadnt  advised  it of her illness prior to these actions being taken. 
Santander said its collection  agents  had managed to contact Mrs H on 25 February 2019 
and had been told shed call back.  Santander said that no return  call had been  made.  And 
that despite its agent later visiting the house and leaving a letter no contact from Mrs H was 
made. It said the agreement was then terminated on 19 March 2019  and a letter  confirming 
this was sent to Mrs H. Santander said it had carried out the correct procedure. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said Santander had 
tried to contact Mrs H and even after contact had been re-established  no payments were 
made until April 2019. By that time the agreement had been terminated and the default 
applied. He didnt  think Santander had done anything  wrong.
Mrs H didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mrs Hs illness  led to financial difficulty and I accept that it mustve been a 
difficult time for her. 
Mrs Hs complaint is that Santander didnt treat her fairly after her account fell into arrears.  
And that she wasnt told her account  was being terminated.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
Ref: DRN42090672When a customer falls into arrears  we would expect a business to act fairly and to work with 
the customer to try to bring about  a satisfactory resolution.
Its not in dispute  that Mrs H missed payments in late 2018 and early  2019  due to illness.  Ive 
seen information  that Santander  tried to contact  her by text, letter and voicemail.  But when 
no contact was made Santander issued a default notice in January 2019. When  this wasnt  
satisfied Santander  passed the account to its collection  agents.
Mrs H attempted to make an online payment on or around 18 February 2019. But this wasnt 
successful as the account was already in arrears and Santander said the system  displayed a 
message asking Mrs H to contact the arrears management team.
Contact was resumed  in late February 2019 and Santander records  show  that Mrs H agreed 
to call back and make a payment with the collection agents. Unfortunately, no call was 
received, and no payment made.  
Ive seen information to indicate that Santander  collection  agents called at Mrs Hs address 
and left a letter. Mrs H says she didnt receive  this and believes the agents  called  at the 
wrong house. Eventually when no further  contact  was established,  and no payment made 
Santander terminated the account on 19 March 2019.
A few days  later contact  was re-established,  and Mrs H told the collection agents she could 
pay the arrears in full. As the agreement had been terminated, Santander declined to agree 
to reinstate it. It said it had already passed the account to its solicitors  to seek a recovery of 
goods order.
Ive recently been  supplied  with information  from Santander that a court subsequently made 
a recovery of goods order in its favour. And I understand this was executed in February 
2020.
As a court has issued a judgment,  I cant do anything that would have the effect of interfering 
with or overruling that court order. This means  that even if I upheld this complaint, Im not 
able to require  Santander to reinstate the agreement.
What I am able to look at is whether  Santanders  decision to record the original default was 
fair. As Mrs Hs complaint was made before the court judgment and Ive seen nothing to 
show the judgment directly related to the default  itself  as opposed to recovering  the vehicle 
 I see no reason not to issue a decision on this aspect.
Whilst I empathise with Mrs H regarding the issue with her health, the fact remains  that 
contractual payments were missed  and arrears accumulated. I cant  see that Santander was 
initially informed of Mrs Hs health  difficulties.
Wed normally expect  a business to default an account when payments were between  three  
and six months in arrears.
Mrs H was aware in February 2019 of the amount of arrears and seems to have promised to 
make a payment.  This promise wasnt kept.  As there then followed  a further period of lost 
contact and no payment,  I cant say Santander was wrong when it terminated the account.
Ref: DRN42090673It remains the responsibility of the consumer to ensure payments are made. Or, if this is not 
possible, to try to reach arrangements with the business. Im satisfied on a balance of 
probabilities that Mrs H did agree to make a payment in late February  2019.  But that 
payment wasnt made within a reasonable time.
The notes Ive seen  show the collection agents  twice  visited  the address given by Mrs H. 
And that a letter regarding  the arrears was hand-posted.  Im not able to say why Mrs H didnt 
receive this but that doesnt affect  my decision.  
Mrs H knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that as she was in arrears it was likely  the 
business would seek to act to recover those  arrears. And section 7 of the agreement states 
this could include terminating the agreement  and seeking to recover the goods.
In summary,  I find that Santander followed the correct process  before defaulting the account. 
It sent the required notices and tried to make contact by other  means. When  payments  
werent made  even  after contact was re-established in February  2019   it was entitled  to 
terminate the agreement and seek recovery of the vehicle. Accordingly, Im not upholding 
this complaint.
In conclusion, Im aware that Mrs H will be disappointed by my decision not to require  
Santander to remove the default  from her credit file. But she is entitled to apply to the 
relevant credit reference agencies and seek to have  a notice of correction placed  on her 
record. This allows her to explain to future prospective lenders the circumstances 
surrounding her health that contributed to the default.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 November  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4209067