K820x#14complaint
Mr W, on behalf of Company T, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc refused to open a 
business account for that company.
background
Mr W is the sole director and employee of Company T. He has had a personal bank account 
with HSBC for a number  of years.
Mr W asked HSBC to open a business account in the name of his company, so that he could 
trade stocks  and shares using the services  of his chosen stockbroker. Mr W tells us the 
stockbroker required transactions to be carried out through a business  account.
HSBC invited Mr W to a meeting and asked that he bring various documents  with him. 
Before the meeting was due to take place, HSBC contacted Mr W and told him they would  
not be providing a business account  for his company.
Mr W says HSBC told him this was because his business was speculative. He felt HSBCs 
attitude during  the call was dismissive. And he thought it was unfair that they wouldnt 
provide him with a business  account.
Mr W complained  to HSBC. They explained that this was a commercial decision. They said 
they were required  to ask about the nature of his business  and that they had assessed his 
request against  established criteria, in line with their usual process. They  also apologised for 
any misunderstanding during their call to Mr W.
Mr W was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and thought HSBC had done nothing wrong.
Mr W disagreed  and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC are entitled to make commercial decisions about who they do business with. Its not 
for us to tell them to open accounts  for particular customers  or to question their commercial 
decision making. Mr W is entitled  to seek banking services for his business  elsewhere.
That said,  we would  be concerned if there were any suggestion that HSBC  hadnt acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr W in the way they handled his request for a business 
account.
However Im satisfied Mr Ws request was handled in line with HSBCs usual processes and 
procedures. Theres no suggestion here that they decided not to offer their services to 
Mr Ws company  for any other reason  than the one given to him. His request has been  
assessed against the existing criteria  and HSBC have decided  not to provide their services   
as they are entitled  to do.
Ref: DRN47690262The call HSBC made to Mr W to tell him their decision wasnt  recorded because  it was made 
from the branch  at which Mr W made his request. So, I cant be sure what was said.
Mr W says the HSBC  employee was dismissive.  I cant be sure whether that was the case or 
not. However, I do know that HSBC have apologised to Mr W for any misunderstanding that 
may have  arisen  during the call. The rest of HSBCs communications  with Mr W appear to 
have been entirely  professional and polite.
So, even if the relevant  call to Mr W wasnt handled  perfectly, Im not going to ask HSBC to 
do anything more to add to the apology theyve already provided.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W, on behalf of 
Company T, to accept  or reject my decision before 28 February 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4769026