K821x#15complaint
Mrs K says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about six payday loans  that Quick Quid provided  to Mrs K from October  
2009 onwards.  Mrs Ks last loan was provided in August  2010.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ks complaint and thought that she shouldnt have been provided  
with any of the loans from loan three onwards. Quick Quid disagreed. So the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs K 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans three to six would most likely 
have shown that the repayment required for these loans  would  have taken a significant 
portion of Mrs Ks monthly income.  In these circumstances, there  was a significant  risk that 
Mrs K wouldnt have  been able to repay these loans  without  undue difficulty or borrowing 
further.
Ref: DRN41208532Mrs K had to pay interest and charges on loans that Quick Quid  shouldnt  have provided her 
with. So I think that she lost out because  Quick Quid provided loans three to six. This means 
that Im upholding Mrs Ks complaint about  loans three to six and Quick  Quid  should  put 
things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs K paid on her loans;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Ks complaint. Casheuronet UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mrs K compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4120853