K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about a secured, second  charge, loan he had with Blemain Finance Limited.
Mr K has raised a number  of complaint points over time in relation to his loan with Blemain. 
In his current complaint  Mr K has made  the following main points:
no statements were  sent for the first five years of the loan;
the loan had an incorrect start date, resulting in him being charged an additional  six 
days of interest;
hed been  sold the loan on the understanding the interest rate would be 7.8% for the first 
year, but the rate increased  during this time;
hes received threatening contact from Blemain;
he received a £50 charge for cancelled insurance during October 2007, when hed not 
actually cancelled  the insurance;
he believes other administration charges should  be refunded;
the terms and conditions havent  been followed in relation to how the interest rate can 
be varied, and that the term is unfair.  Mr K has highlighted point  29.7 of the legal charge 
schedule in relation to this. He says this means the interest rate should  be 5% above 
another banks rate. He says the rate hasnt changed in line with market conditions.
background
Mr K borrowed £45,000  from Blemain on in October 2006. The interest rate was 7.8%  for the 
first ten months of the loan term, then increased  to 8.3%. It remained at that rate for four 
months, before increasing again  to 10.3%. Since  then, theres been no change to the rate.
Our investigator said that a number of the points raised by Mr K werent  ones we could 
consider. This was because the loan was unregulated and loans like Mr Ks werent 
regulated until 1 April 2014. So, our service  had no jurisdiction to consider those events Mr K 
complained about which  occurred prior to 1 April 2014.
Our investigator explained that for this reason she couldnt consider: how the rate was set on 
the loan before April 2014; the sale of the loan; the sending  of annual statements for the first 
five years of the loan;  the calls Mr K had received as they were  made  before  April 2014; and 
any charges applied before April 2014.
Our investigator said that the only part of the complaint she could look at was in relation to 
how the interest rate could be varied  after 1 April 2014. The investigator  explained that she 
felt it was clear the interest rate was variable and the reason for any variations was linked to 
the cost of funding.
Although she pointed out that there was some potential for unfairness in the way interest  was 
applied, having  considered the available evidence, she concluded that, because from April 
2014, the point at which Blemain came under our compulsory jurisdiction, Mr K was able to end 
his contract with Blemain  with no unreasonable cost, overall Mr K had not been  treated  unfairly.  
That is because there was no significant barrier  to prevent him moving  the remaining balance  to 
another lender, with the possibility of obtaining  a rate he was happier with by doing  so.
Ref: DRN45083342Mr K did not agree  with our investigators view. In summary, he said that as base rates had 
decreased, so should the rate on his loan, in line with these  and in similar fashion to other 
mortgage lenders.  He said that there was nothing in the terms and conditions  about the cost 
of borrowing  to Blemain  being a determining factor  with regard to the variable rate. He said 
that no consideration had been  given to the cost of taking out a new loan elsewhere.  Further 
to this, he said that the consideration here was for the terms and conditions of his contract 
and how they had been applied.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  its been referred to me for a final decision.
what I can and cant  look at
Before our service can look at the merits of a complaint,  we must first look at whether we 
have the power  to investigate it. This can be because of timescales set out in the rules that 
govern us or regulatory rules  over time which set out what  agreements are regulated  or not.
As explained by our investigator, a number of the points raised by Mr K arent ones we can 
consider. This is because  the loan was unregulated  and loans like Mr Ks werent  regulated 
until 1 April 2014. So, our service has no jurisdiction to consider those events that Mr K 
complained about that occurred prior to 1 April 2014. I agree with that analysis.
On 1 April 2014  loans like the one taken  out by Mr K were included in our compulsory 
jurisdiction. That means  that whilst our service  is unable to consider  anything that happened 
on the agreement  before this date, we can consider events on and after this date.
This also means that our service cannot consider the complaint points about any charges 
that occurred  before  1 April 2014.  This includes telephone charges and building insurance  
fees which were applied and refunded prior to our ability to consider complaints about  them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so, Ive reached similar conclusions to 
those set out by the investigator, for what are broadly the same  reasons. I do not consider it 
would be fair or reasonable to require Blemain to do anything more.  Ill explain why.
To start with, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account 
of relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes  of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the relevant 
time. This goes wider than the rules and guidance that come under the remit of the FCA. 
Ultimately, Im required to make a decision  that I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
As outlined  above,  I wont be considering any complaint points that relate  to events which  
took place before April 2014.
Ref: DRN45083343When considering  Mr Ks complaint about  the way the specific  variation term has been  
applied and whether he has been  treated  fairly  and reasonably  Ive also thought carefully 
about whether  he could  have reasonably left the contract.
It has long been  established that when considering contractual terms and their fairness, the 
right to dissolve the contract without facing any unreasonable barriers is of fundamental  
importance.
I agree  with the investigator that there  was some potential for unfairness in the way interest 
was applied by Blemain as it has not always taken a consistent  approach  when the costs of 
funds have increased or decreased. So, I need  to carefully consider whether Mr K was able 
to dissolve the contract without facing any unreasonable  barriers.
From the point this service is able to consider the loan, I dont think there were  any 
unreasonable barriers  to dissolve the contract  for Mr K. I say this because  the terms of 
Mr Ks agreement  state:
The borrower may end this agreement early at any time by paying to the lender (i) 
the Balance Outstanding of the Total Loan  Facility and a fee calculated in the same  
way as the fee under 7 above and (ii) all other  amounts  owing under this agreement 
and the Legal and Documentation Fee shown  as H Overleaf
Mr K entered into this contract in October 2006 and by the time we have jurisdiction  to 
consider this agreement, from April 2014  onwards, the most Mr K would have had to pay on 
top of the balance and fees would have  been one months interest  until October  2014  when 
there would have been no interest to pay. It follows that there wasnt  a substantial financial 
barrier to transferring  the remaining balance elsewhere from April 2014  onwards.
Im aware that shopping around  and applying for a re-mortgage can be a rather inconvenient 
and time-consuming  process, especially for a second charge mortgage. However, in a case like 
this the potential benefits clearly outweigh any inconvenience or associated costs (which  for the 
avoidance of doubt I do not consider amount  to an unreasonable barrier  to dissolving the 
original contract) involved  and, as Ive pointed  out above, the ability for Mr K to dissolve the 
contract without facing any unreasonable barriers is of fundamental importance and weighs 
against upholding the complaint on the basis of Blemains application of the variation term.
In terms of the other aspects of Mr Ks complaint,  I agree  with what  the investigator has said.  
There have not been any charges added to the loan since April 2014, so there  isnt anything 
I can review in terms of charges applied to Mr Ks loan from April 2014  onwards.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint about Blemain Finance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2021.
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4508334