K821x#15complaint
Mrs H has complained Capital One (Europe) plc is holding her liable for a credit card debt 
when she never applied for or used the card.
background
In February 2017  CapOne received an online application from Mrs H. This was in her name 
but used an email address that wasnt hers. It quoted an annual  salary of £22,000.  CapOne  
accepted the application,  granted  a credit limit of £1,500 and sent a card and PIN to Mrs Hs 
address. Quickly a large amount of payments were made on the card. Two attempts to pay 
the bill on two different  debit cards in amounts on just over £1,500  were  made  in March 
2017. The issuing  banks refused to accept those payments as they claimed the payments  
were fraudulent.
As the credit card bill totalled over £6,000, CapOne started to write to Mrs H for repayment. 
One of her sons,  on her behalf,  tried to explain that shed  never  applied  for the card.  As the 
card had been sent to Mrs Hs address,  CapOne  was not prepared to accept this was the 
case. They closed  the account, added a default to Mrs Hs credit  record and also added  a 
fraud marker  to her CIFAS  record.
Mrs Hs son brought her complaint to the ombudsman  service on her behalf. Our adjudicator 
carried out a detailed investigation. CapOne was able to show the application had been 
made from the same IP address as another application by one of Mrs Hs sons. He also tried 
to drill down into individual transactions to see whether goods had been delivered to Mrs Hs 
address. He wasnt able to get this evidence.  Nor was CapOne  able to confirm any details 
about whose debit card was used to try and make payments to the account.
However our adjudicator  felt overall  CapOne were able to expect  Mrs H to pay this debt. 
There seemed little doubt the card had been  sent to her home address and he didnt think 
any application was made by an unknown  third party.
Mrs Hs son disagreed with this outcome and asked an ombudsman to consider his mothers  
complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 28 October. I laid out why I didnt think  CapOne could 
ask Mrs H to repay the debt and told them to write it off.
Mrs Hs son confirmed his mother accepted this outcome. CapOne didnt confirm  whether 
they accepted or rejected  it. I now have all I need  to complete a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so and receiving nothing 
from either party in response to my provisional  decision which suggests I need to reconsider 
anything, Ive followed the wording  of my provisional decision.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
in this type of case whether the transactions were distance-related. So when we look at 
whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
Ref: DRN48735212consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them.
Our adjudicator was right to say it isnt our role to discover neither who applied for the credit  
card nor who made the transactions. But if Im to uphold this complaint I do need to be 
satisfied that Mrs H didnt  apply for the card or made or authorised the transactions  herself.
To help me decide this, Ive considered the evidence provided by CapOne, including  a copy 
of the original online application (including IP address information), customer  notes and 
credit card statements.  CapOne has not been  able to confirm whether the card used to 
attempt two payments  to the account  were in Mrs Hs name  although based on the name 
of the issuing banks and what  I know about Mrs Hs banking relationship  I think this is 
extremely unlikely. Nor do they still hold any copies  of calls made  by Mrs H and her son 
when they raised  their concerns with CapOne.
Mrs Hs son has been able to give us copies of Mrs Hs bank statements and copies of her 
wage slips from a couple of years ago. These  confirm Mrs H was never earning £22,000 a 
year. Nor was her email  address the address used to apply for the card.  In fact that email 
address was similar to the one used for the card applied a few months  before by one of 
Mrs Hs sons. I find it surprising   bearing  in mind that first card wasnt being  paid  that 
CapOne issued  another  card to the same address (including IP address) using similar  
details. This obviously  didnt flag any of their risk parameters.
After the card and PIN were sent out, the recipient set the account to switch off paper 
statements. This explains why Mrs H may not have known anything about  the card until 
CapOne closed  the account for non-payment and started writing to Mrs H to default  the 
account. And what we do know is that after getting  this correspondence, Mrs H, through  her 
son, immediately  got in touch with CapOne  to explain shed never  applied  for or used this 
card.
Its been difficult to get evidence  about  how or where the transactions  on the account  were 
carried out. CapOne has not provided this. This could have helped  me assess whether  these  
transactions looked like ones  Mrs H would have  made. But I do have copies of the credit 
card statements along with Mrs Hs bank statements.  I have  compared  the two.  
Mrs Hs use of her bank  account is very home-based. She made  transfers to her children 
and took out cash from local cash machines. There were few instances of debit card spend. 
The person  using the credit card account used cash machines a few times  but generally  
from 2 March to 21 April 2017 spent on meals and general retail purchases, along with four 
large wholesale outlet purchases. This is very different usage. Whilst this doesnt mean 
alone this wasnt  Mrs H using the card, it does suggest to me it wasnt.
What is also true is the usage  including  the retail spend for make-up, dry-cleaning, car 
repairs and on restaurants  doesnt suggest these payments were being  made  by an 
unknown third party.  
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the card and PIN werent sent to Mrs Hs home address. And 
then used by someone  whod  applied  for the card using lots of Mrs Hs personal details, 
which were obviously well-known to them, but carefully avoiding  using  Mrs Hs email 
address or similar. Its quite difficult to conclude other than a member  of Mrs Hs family 
applied for and used the card. I appreciate  that Mrs Hs son denies this but Im not sure what 
other conclusion  can be drawn.
Ref: DRN48735213So I have  also considered whether Mrs H knew about or was a party to the use of the card. 
Unfortunately Mrs Hs complaint has been managed by her son so weve not spoken to her 
herself to understand what she thought was going  on. But I have  reviewed the letters sent to 
CapOne about this debt,  and CapOnes own contact notes. This amounts to her 
recollections and arguments why this wasnt her. Ive seen  nothing  to show this isnt true.
Overall, and on the balance of possibilities,  I believe the evidence doesnt  show Mrs H 
applied for or used  the card. Neither  do I believe she knew about  the usage.  
CapOne defaulted this debt and asked Mrs H to repay it. As they feel she was involved in 
first party fraud theyve also placed  a CIFAS  marker  on Mrs Hs record.  As I dont think 
Mrs H applied for or used  the card, I am instructing CapOne to remove that marker.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Capital One (Europe) plc to:
Stop pursuing Mrs H for this credit card debt;
Remove any reference to this credit card from Mrs Hs credit  record;  and
Take off the CIFAS  marker they placed against  Mrs H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4873521