K821x#15complaint
Mr P says PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 4 loans Mr Lender  provided to Mr P. Mr Ps borrowing history with 
Mr Lender is detailed  below:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment Deferrals
1 13/03/2014 04/04/2014 1 £250.00 £325.00 0
2 14/04/2014 05/08/2014 1 £400.00 £520.00 2
3 12/09/2014 03/10/2014 1 £207.00 £258.75 0
4 23/02/2015 20/05/2015 3 £500.00 £322.66 0
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and thought  that Mr P shouldnt have been given 
loans 2 to 4. Mr Lender disagreed and said the adjudicator hadnt properly explained his
reasoning. It also said it carried out adequate checks  and Mr P had sufficient income to 
afford the loan. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the case was passed me  an ombudsman  for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of
income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult
to meet  a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of
Ref: DRN44773342time during which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loan  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Lender needed to do any more  when  it lent Mr P loan 1. 
Mr P didnt disagree with this so I wont be making further findings on this loan, but I have 
considered it when looking at Mr Ps borrowing  history and his financial situation  overall.
Mr Lender says it carried out adequate checks on Mr P when he applied for loan 2.
This included getting details  of his income and expenditure. I can see from evidence 
submitted by Mr Lender that it did carry out checks on Mr P. However, I think  if Mr Lender 
had properly considered Mr Ps financial  situation  and the lending  I think  it would have seen 
that Mr P was not in a position  to take on this borrowing.
I say this because  Mr P was borrowing £400,  which was due to be repaid in one payment.
This meant that Mr P would be repaying £520  from his monthly  income of £1,300. The loan 
repayment therefore took away a significant  amount of his income, leaving him with 
considerably less for the remainder of the month.  As the repayment  represented a significant 
proportion of Mr Ps income,  I think Mr Lender  ought to have realised this and the potential 
for Mr P to struggle to make the repayment.
Given Mr Ps income and borrowing, it seems there was a significant chance of Mr P
having to borrow  again to meet his commitment under this loan. Mr Lender was under a
duty to ensure the lending  could  be sustainably repaid and in Mr Ps case I dont think it
was. And I think this wouldve been  clear to Mr Lender at the outset when it gathered
information from Mr P.
Mr Lender says it knew Mr P would be left with £440 for unforeseen expenses  and as he 
lived with parents this shouldve  been adequate. But in my view the loan repayment still left 
Mr P for very little flexibility should  he have needed  to rely on his disposable income.  And 
Mr Ps expenditure details  may not have been an accurate  reflection of his actual spending. 
Mr Lender has also referred  to loan 3 and that it was for a lower amount and this shows Mr P 
wasnt reliant on short term lending.  But its likely  Mr P was taking  out loan 3 to help cover 
Ref: DRN44773343the hole loan 2 left in his finances.  Mr P also appears to have had issues  repaying  loan 2 on 
time as it was deferred twice. So by loan 3, although  the amount borrowed was lower than 
loan 2 Mr Lender had enough information about  Mr Ps financial situation to see that he was 
not able to sustainably repay any further  borrowing. 
Loan 4 was taken out four months later and Mr Lender says this means  it should  constitute a 
new lending  chain.  But I dont  consider  this interim  period enough time to be considered  a 
significant break in the lending chain. Mr P was also borrowing £500  double what  he 
borrowed when he first started borrowing from Mr Lender. And I think  this indicates Mr Ps 
finances werent improving. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 2 to 4 and Mr Lender should put things right.
putting things right  what PDL Finance Limited needs to do
Mr Lender shouldnt have  given Mr P loans 2 to 4.
A)Mr Lender  should  add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans,  including payments made to a third party  
where applicable, but not including anything it has already  refunded.
B)Mr Lender  should  calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by 
Mr P which  were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint  is settled.
C)Mr Lender  should  pay Mr P the total of A plus B.
D)Mr Lender  should  remove any adverse information  it has recorded on Mr Ps credit 
file in relation  to loans 2 and 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  you to deduct tax from this interest.  Mr Lender should  give
Mr P a certificate showing  how much tax its deducted,  if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons given  above, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. PDL Finance Limited  should 
pay put things  right for Mr P as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Mr P to accept  or reject my decision
before 27 March 2020. 
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4477334