K821x#15complaint
Mr E is unhappy with the settlement paid to him by AXA Insurance  UK Plc following his 
home insurance claim for fire damage  to his property
background
In December 2017 Mr E suffered a fire in the kitchen of his property which  caused 
considerable damage to both buildings and contents. AXA accepted  the claim and arranged 
for Mr E and his family to stay in alternative accommodation, initially  a hotel. Sadly, for 
causes unrelated to the fire, Mr Es wife passed away  in January 2018. 
Mr E and his son moved to temporary  accommodation, a flat, and AXA paid the rent for it. 
The work was scoped  by AXA and the loss adjuster prepared papers for tenders to be sent 
out. Mr E advised that he wanted  to have an extension built at the same time as the repairs.  
As this wasnt a part of the claim,  it was agreed that AXA would pay a cash  settlement  to 
enable Mr E to have all the repairs and extension  built by a contractor of his choice. A cash 
settlement of in total just over £109,000  was agreed on 27 September 2018.  This included a 
payment for 26 weeks alternative accommodation.  Mr E was satisfied with the way the claim 
was dealt with up until the point of agreeing  a settlement.
The settlement  took until 24 October to come through, during which time Mr E had to chase 
it up several times. Mr Es accommodation had run out as the landlord wanted  the property 
back. So for the period  up until then he had to ask his builder to prepare rooms  at the 
property for him to stay in with his son. He says he had to rely on friends to assist him during 
this period.
AXA apologised for the delay in making  payment which was due to the necessary checks  
being made. It paid Mr E £200 for the inconvenience caused. It wouldnt agree  however  to 
pay for the accommodation during  the time he was waiting for the settlement. It said that the 
cash settlement included 26 weeks accommodation from 27 September. If the work  took 
longer than that it would  consider whether  to make a further payment at the time.
Mr E made an application for planning permission  in November 2018. He points out that he 
could have instructed  contractors earlier  if he had had the funds. As of July 2019 the full 
works hadnt started as he had been in dispute over the terms of the planning permission. 
He appreciated  that AXA couldnt be liable for storage of his contents  indefinitely so agreed  
to take them  back  from 2 September 2019.
AXA made further payments for the contents including  sofas  damaged by smoke.
On review by this service  our investigator  thought that AXA should  pay Mr E a further £300 
compensation for the difficulties caused to him by having to return  to a partially restored  
home. He didnt think, as Mr E had requested, that AXA should pay interest on the 
settlement or make any further payment for alternative accommodation. AXA agreed to the 
increased compensation.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that AXA should pay interest  on the settlement for 
a period of 20 days, and that it should pay a disturbance  allowance  for the 27 days  from 
agreement of the settlement up until the date it was paid.
AXA accepted my proposed findings.
Ref: DRN43504062Mr E didnt agree. He said that interest should  run from the date of the settlement, and that 
there was no basis for AXA having seven days to pay. He also said that he was entitled to 
alternative accommodation for those 27 days under the terms of the policy.  So AXA should 
pay for that period at a rate of the average of the previous figure agreed by the loss adjuster 
 of £827 per week. He further said that AXA should say what  its prepared to pay beyond  
the 26 weeks as the works werent completed in that period.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
delay in paying  settlement
Payment was agreed on 27 September 2018. Mr E didnt receive payment until 24 October. I 
think this was too long. In my view it shouldnt have taken more  than a week  to send the 
payment, on the basis that the loss adjuster  had authority to make a settlement. And 
payment was made by direct bank  transfer.  Mr E has received a payment for £200,  to be 
increased to £500  (as Ive set out below) for the distress and inconvenience  caused to him 
by the delayed payment. 
For such a large project most contractors would require some form of payment up front, so I 
think there would  have been  a delay in Mr E being able to instruct contractors to at least start 
the repairs and draw up the planning  documents. And I do understand that the delays 
caused by the planning  application werent  AXAs fault. Nevertheless I think it would be 
appropriate for AXA to pay interest on the cash settlement. As Ive said I think AXA shouldnt 
have taken longer  than a week to make payment. So I think it should  pay simple  interest  on 
the settlement  at 8% per year for the period of 20 days.
alternative accommodation
Once the settlement was reached, although it was aware that his accommodation had run 
out, I cant see that any steps  were taken by AXA to advise Mr E about what  he could do. 
The settlement  was intended to cover 26 weeks of alternative accommodation from the date 
(27 September 2018) it was agreed. This was the time estimated to complete the repairs.  
But Mr E didnt receive that payment  until some  27 days later.  I note in several emails to 
AXA chasing  up the payment he asked for an interim payment, which wasnt forthcoming.  
Mr E says he had to ask his builder to make  some rooms in his home  ready so he could 
move back  in with his son, and rely on friends to help him out.
It wouldnt be appropriate for me to make AXA pay Mr E the cost of alternative 
accommodation for those  27 days. He hasnt paid for such accommodation during that 
period. But I do think  he has had a financial loss. When a consumer stays in their home 
without adequate cooking and/or washing facilities it would be appropriate to pay a daily 
disturbance allowance to cover  the increased  cost of living there. As the kitchen  was, I 
understand, completely out of use, I think AXA should pay Mr E the standard disturbance  
allowance which is £10 per day for adults and £5 per day for children. This is £15 per day for 
27 days, a total of £405. 
Ref: DRN43504063I note that there was a delay in getting  the repairs under way  I dont know the present 
position. But thats a matter for Mr E. He has the funds to pay for accommodation as and 
when he needs  it.
compensation
Our investigator proposed that AXA pay a further £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr E for not having accommodation or the means  to pay for it. I 
think thats reasonable in the circumstances  of this case.
I have determined Mr Es complaint  by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. I have to bear in mind  that this services 
function is to act as an alternative dispute  resolution  service and to resolve matters between  
the parties informally.
There was no specific agreement about  how long the payment would take to reach Mr E
I think it was fair and reasonable to allow seven  days for the payment to be released to him. 
This in my view would have allowed for the settlement  to be processed and the payment 
sent out. To the extent  that AXA would have kept interest on those funds for the remaining 
20 days. I again think it was fair and reasonable for AXA to pay the proposed  interest for the 
said 20 days.
In assessing compensation  I look at what happened  rather than what  might  have  happened.  
Mr E didnt stay in a hotel  for the 27 days until he reached settlement. He instead  opted to 
stay in his home. I agree  that he was entitled to receive an accommodation allowance at 
least for that period but that can take the form of  a disturbance allowance  (which Ive set out 
in my provisional findings above) which is what I have proposed  that AXA pay (and it has 
agreed to). And he isnt entitled to betterment from the claim  so making AXA pay based on 
costs he didnt incur wouldnt be fair or reasonable. To the extent that the delayed  settlement 
caused Mr E inconvenience  that has been allowed for in the compensation payment.
If the work took longer  than the 26 weeks allowed, AXA has made clear  that it would be 
prepared to consider  payment for further alternative accommodation. But that doesnt form 
part of this complaint.  If Mr E wants AXA to consider that further he should approach  it 
directly.
I remain persuaded by my provisional findings. Those findings are now final and form part of 
this final decision.
 
my final decision 
I propose to uphold the complaint and to require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to pay to Mr E:
8% simple interest* on the settlement figure of £109,292.39 for the period of 20 days.
£405 disturbance  allowance.
A further  £300  compensation.
*AXA Insurance UK Plc is required by HM Revenue  and Customs to deduct tax from any 
interest paid. Should Mr E request it, AXA Insurance UK Plc should provide him with a 
certificate showing how much tax has been  taken off so that, if appropriate, he can reclaim it.
Ref: DRN43504064Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4350406