K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ks complaint is about the handling  of a claim under  her Home Electrical Cover 
insurance policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
The parties will see that Ive changed  the respondent from British  Gas Services Limited to 
British Gas Insurance Limited. This is because we have no jurisdiction over British  Gas 
Services Limited for a complaint about the handling  of the insurance policy;  its only an 
insurance intermediary,  not an insurer. 
This is an important legal technicality but it does not affect the outcome of the case and as 
British Gas Services Limited responded to the complaint on behalf of British  Gas Insurance  
Limited, theres no need for it to review the matter  again or issue  a further final response.
background
In December 2018, Mrs K made a claim under her policy  when her electrics became faulty  
I understand the power in her property kept tripping  off and would not stay on. British Gas 
sent an electrician out who told her that the wiring in her property was incorrectly  installed 
and unsafe. The electrician told Mrs K shed have  to have the house rewired  and this would 
not be covered  under  the policy.  British Gas agreed  to send someone else out to look at the 
electrics but he also said the wiring  in the property  was unsafe and so he could not identify 
where the fault was. 
Mrs K decided to instruct  her own electrician to look at the wiring. Her electrician said the 
breakdown was due to a faulty  socket in the kitchen and repaired it. Mrs K says that British 
Gass electrician misdiagnosed the problem and so asked British Gas to reimburse the costs 
of her electrician (£342) and also the cost of some  gas fires she bought  to provide heating 
while waiting for the repairs to be done (£136.44). Mrs K also told us British Gas had 
previously done  a safety test on the electrics  in her property in 2015, while fitting smart 
metres, including  the socket  which was faulty and had passed.
British Gas doesnt accept it has acted incorrectly. It says its electrician found several faults
and due to poor wiring  and multiple junction boxes, he was unable to find the fault to repair.  
It provided a quote  for over £7,500 for the rewiring of the property.  British  Gas says it didnt 
cause the problem with the electrics and so is not responsible for the inconvenience  caused 
to Mrs K while this was not working but it did offer £30 compensation for the delay in sending 
the second electrician  out.  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and decided it should be upheld. She said the 
policy includes cover  for repairs to electrical  sockets  and so the work  should have been 
covered. The investigator therefore recommended that British  Gas reimburse Mrs K for the 
cost of her electrician and also the cost of the gas heaters (which she had only bought 
because British Gas told her it would take two to three weeks before it could provide a quote 
for the rewiring so she would have otherwise been  without any heating). The investigator 
also recommended  that British Gas pay £75 compensation for the trouble caused by the 
handling of the claim.  
British Gas didnt  accept the investigators  assessment. It says:
It visited the property  in June 2018  to carry out an annual  service of the boiler but the 
electrics would not have been looked  at. It does not provide an annual check for the 
Ref: DRN49846422electrics and so unless and until there is a problem, it would not be aware of any 
defects in the way it was installed. 
Mrs Ks electrician  repaired  this without the need for wiring,  however,  it has strict 
guidelines and rules and regulations that it has to follow to make sure that any work 
is left safe for customers.
The policy doesnt cover pre-existing faults  or the improvement or upgrade  of any 
part of the electrical  system. Mrs Ks electricians  invoice clearly states that there was 
no earth sleeving in place, which is an installation fault; and it advises  that if an 
improvement is necessary, it may not continue to make repairs  until that work has 
been carried out. This was the case in this scenario and the engineer  followed the 
correct procedure.
As the adjudicator was unable to resolve  the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ks policy covers  various specified  events which might arise  with a home electrical 
system, including: All repairs to the mains  electrical system and wiring on your  property  including: 
The fuse box, light fittings,  switches, sockets, isolation switches  and your
immersion heater timer switch
It excludes  any pre-existing  faults and any improvements or upgrade  of any system. 
Mrs Ks electrician  attended and managed to complete  the repair of a socket, which he says 
was the cause of the electricity tripping in the whole property. His invoice says he did the 
following work: 
 
called out to investigate  power tripping
upon investigation we found  that there was a faulty  socket under the kitchen cabinets and 
one of the sockets in the kitchen had no earth  sleeving and the neutral  was possibly 
touching the earth
we did not find this out until we had separated all of the socket on the ring and put them  back 
together one at time replaced faulty socket.
The cause of the problem was therefore the faulty  socket. Mrs Ks electrician would be 
subject to the same codes  and standards as British Gass electrician and there is no 
evidence that what he did was not correct  or safe. He did not state  that the whole system 
needed to be rewired. Mrs Ks electrician also found  that one socket was lacking an earth  
sleeve but this was not apparently the one causing  the fault. 
Based on this, I am satisfied that Mrs Ks engineer carried out a repair  that should have been 
carried out by British Gass electrician  under  the terms of her policy.  I share Mrs Ks concern 
that instead she was left without power for around a week and then quoted just over £7,500 
for rewiring which was not required.  I therefore agree that British Gas should  reimburse  Mrs 
K for the cost of the repairs, together with interest  at our usual rate. 
  
Mrs K was without power for approximately a week,  which meant  she had no heating  or hot 
water, and had to get her own electrician  to come and repair  it when she had taken  out this 
policy to avoid the need to do so in exactly this kind of situation. I therefore  also agree that 
Ref: DRN49846423British Gas should reimburse  the cost of the gas heaters, also with interest. I also consider 
that some  additional compensation is warranted for the trouble caused by this repair not 
being done at the first attendance. I think this should  be higher than the investigator 
recommended. I consider  the sum of £200 to be more appropriate to reflect  the difficulties 
this caused Mrs K, which could have  been avoided. This includes, being without heating; 
arranging her own electrician; and having  two more appointments to have  this resolved, 
which should not have been  necessary.   
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to pay Mrs K the 
following: 
£342 for the cost for the electrical work  she had done, together with interest at 8% 
simple per annum  from the date she paid for the work to the date of reimbursement;
£136.44 to reimburse  the cost of the temporary heaters, together  with interest  at 8% 
simple per annum  from the date Mrs K bought  the heaters  to the date of 
reimbursement; and 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4984642