K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the interest  rate charged by GE Money  Home  Lending  
Limited. Theyre unhappy that it didnt reduce in later years  despite general market  rates  
such as the Bank of England (BOE) or LIBOR base rates  being  at record lows.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a loan from GE Money  Home Finance Limited  who were trading as 
First National  in April 2007. They borrowed £25,000 over a period of 64 months with a 
variable annual rate of interest starting  at 9.25%. The initial  repayments were  £541.50.  The 
loan was repaid  in full on 20 March 2013.
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the rate and amount  of interest paid to their loan. The 
investigator who issued  his opinion didnt uphold the complaint.  He said GE Money  had 
applied the interest  rate changes fairly to the loan and it didnt need to follow another rate 
such as the Bank of England base  rate. The investigator  also said GE Money  had 
demonstrated the rate variations were due to changes to business costs and risk. And that 
this wasnt unreasonable.
In response to the investigators opinion, Mr and Mrs W said it isnt fair for businesses  to 
increase their interest  rates to the detriment  of their customers. 
Because Mr and Mrs W havent accepted the investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr and Mrs W have  asked that I take a 
holistic approach  when considering their complaint and give particular consideration to what  
is fair for the customer.  I think  its important  to initially set out here that when considering  
complaints, Im impartial and dont  act for the consumer or business. 
Whether Mr and Mrs W have been  treated fairly  is of course a consideration, and a 
requirement of GE Money as a Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) regulated  business.  Ive 
referred in more detail  below  to this but having considered Mr and Mrs Ws complaint I 
believe I will disappoint them further as I have  come to the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator, for what  are broadly the same  reasons. 
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the amount of interest they paid on their loan and believe 
they shouldnt  have been required  to pay as much. Its not my role, or the role of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  to dictate the level of interest  a mortgage lender charges any 
given customer.  The type, term and amount of the loan are factors  that will impact  on the 
rate a business charges  for that particular loan product. The risk profile of a consumer is also 
something that will impact on the interest rate charged. And different lenders will charge 
different rates  of interest for what is arguably  the same or similar product. 
Some forms of credit  do have restrictions on the level of interest that can be charged,  such 
as high cost short term credit (payday or similar  loans), but no such  restrictions  apply  for this 
type of credit  or loan that Mr and Mrs W had. My role is to look at the rules, regulations and 
best practices of businesses to ensure GE Money  adhered to those rules.  And, as Mr and 
Ref: DRN40654752Mrs W have mentioned, I need to ensure GE Money  have treated them fairly in line with the 
regulators principles. 
Ive looked at the terms of Mr and Mrs Ws agreement,  it is clear  the interest  rate is variable. 
And it should vary in-line with any changes  to the GE Money Base lending Rate (GEBLR). I 
think the term is clear and fairly set out. I think it should  have  therefore  been clear to Mr and 
Mrs W when they agreed to take out the loan that the initial interest  wasnt  fixed, it might 
change and if it does  change what would impact that change. 
The GEBLR rate was publicly available, and weve obtained the historic  rate changes  during 
the period of Mr and Mrs Ws loan. Im satisfied any changes to the GEBLR  were  directly 
applied to their loan in-line  with the terms. I cant say GE Money have  breached the terms of 
the agreement  and I wouldnt expect the rate to follow another  rate, such as the Bank  of 
England base rate, where this isnt stated in the agreement.
I understand Mr and Mrs W are unhappy the business increased their interest rates to cover 
increased costs and risk to the business  during  the financial  crisis  and that this was at the 
expense of their customers. But I dont agree  with Mr Ws opinion that this is unfair. The cost 
of running a business will change and can increase. It is broadly accepted that businesses  
might therefore need to increase interest rates to meet  those costs.  
The regulator, the FCA, published  guidance that accepts costs of business  as an acceptable  
reason to increase or decrease variable interest  rates. And whilst this guidance was 
published after the completion  of Mr and Mrs Ws agreement, the rate variations by GE 
Money followed their general  business  cost and risk changes.
Mr and Mrs W believe this isnt fair because if Mr W did the same in his line of work then 
clients would  choose to go elsewhere. But the way businesses operate in the financial 
industry is based on companies  balancing  their prices with their costs. And GE Money 
doesnt have a monopoly on secured lending. Ive considered whether there were any 
unreasonable barriers  that prevented Mr and Mrs W from exiting their agreement  if they 
were unhappy  with the rates. The terms say the customer can settle the agreement at any 
time as long as the balance is cleared plus a fee equal to one months interest on the 
balance outstanding on the day immediately  before  settlement. I dont think  this restricts Mr 
and Mrs W from leaving  the agreement and they were therefore  able to move to an 
alternative lender  elsewhere offering more preferred rates.  
I realise Mr and Mrs W remain unhappy about the interest  applied  to their loan but I dont 
agree that the lending system is rigged to protect  businesses and their profit  margins.  I also 
dont accept Mr and Mrs Ws view that their rate has been inflated by GE Money. There are 
many factors  that impact the rates charged  by lenders and the BOE or LIBOR  rates  being 
exceptionally low are not sole factors that directly  impact the costs  associated with Mr and 
Mrs Ws loan.  There are other loan products that do track the BOE or LIBOR  rates  but that 
was not a feature or requirement of Mr and Mrs Ws loan with GE Money.  Overall,  I dont  
believe that GE Money have acted unreasonably  or unfairly in this instance. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against GE Money Home 
Lending Limited.
Ref: DRN40654753Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2020.
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4065475