K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Barclays Bank UK Plc incorrectly recorded adverse information  
on their credit file. And they are unhappy about  the way in which  Barclays  dealt with their 
complaint.
background 
Mr and Mrs P had an interest only mortgage with Barclays that matured in September 2015. 
There was an outstanding balance on the mortgage  account and additional  borrowing on the 
linked mortgage  current account (MCA). 
Mr P complained to Barclays  on a number of occasions about information it reported to the 
credit agencies after the mortgage  matured.  And Barclays  took action to remove  some of the 
information from his credit file. But Mr P felt that further incorrect information had been 
recorded. As he wasnt happy  with the response he received from Barclays he brought  his 
complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator felt that Barclays  hadnt  acted fairly in relation to some aspects of the 
complaint. She said, in summary:
Following the involvement of this service Barclays had now concluded that certain 
incorrect information had been recorded, and had cleansed the credit file of the 
inaccurate markers. It apologised for this inaccuracy;
There had been an issue  over certain  missing payments made  in October and 
November 2015. Barclays had confirmed that these had been made to the MCA 
rather than the mortgage, as the standing order Mr and Mrs P had set up had been  to 
the MCA. Barclays had accepted  that Mr and Mrs P may have been provided with 
incorrect information at some point, and had therefore agreed  to remove the arrears  
markers applied to both the mortgage and MCA.
In addition, Barclays had considered  the length of time the investigation had taken 
and the fact that Mr and Mrs P had made several  requests previously to amend their 
credit file. It had apologised, and agreed to pay them £250  for their trouble and upset.
Although Mr and Mrs P accepted Barclays offer to cleanse their credit files, they didnt feel 
that the compensation offered was sufficient to compensate them  for the losses  they had 
suffered. Mr P said in particular that his business activities  relied  heavily on funding.  And he 
explained that he had recently  incurred a bill for £1,500 from an adviser he had asked for 
assistance in raising  finance, where  the attempt had failed due to his poor credit score. 
Following further discussions with the adjudicator Barclays increased its offer of 
compensation to £500, and agreed  to pay a further  £1,500 in respect  of the financial  
advisers invoice. But Mr and Mrs P remain of the view that the compensation offered is too 
low so the complaint  has been referred to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that, following the intervention of this service, Barclays  has now agreed to remove the 
incorrect information from Mr and Mrs Ps credit files. It has also offered to pay them  a total 
Ref: DRN49680982of £2,000 - £500 to compensate them for the distress and inconvenience that they have 
suffered, and £1,500 in respect  of the bill Mr P incurred  from the financial adviser. 
I appreciate that Mr P feels that the compensation offered is insufficient. He has explained 
that he and his staff have  spent a lot of time on the complaint, and that he has no doubt  lost 
business opportunities as a result. But, as the adjudicator has explained, we do not 
compensate hourly  rates for staff or make awards  for possible lost business opportunities. I 
do, however, think it is fair that Barclays  has agreed  to compensate  Mr P for the financial 
advisers bill of £1,500.
Mr P also says that the offer of £500  for inconvenience falls far short of the actual 
disturbance, stress and limitations posed  on their lives over the last three years.  He feels 
that a figure of at least £2,500 would be more proportionate.
Ive considered what Mr P has to say but, although I appreciate that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs P, I dont  agree. Having  considered  all the circumstances Im 
persuaded that compensation  of £500  is reasonable in this case and in line with the 
approach this service  takes to compensation payments.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay 
Mr and Mrs P £2,000 compensation in respect of their trouble and upset and the financial 
advisers fee.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4968098