K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that fees applied to her current account were unfair. Mrs H also complains 
that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  gave her unclear  information when she called 
to talk about the account and didnt make  allowances  for her circumstances. 
background
Mrs H had a Halifax current account with an overdraft limit of £300. But the account fell into 
arrears after payments into it stopped in August 2015. When monthly account fees and over 
limit charges  were  applied  during  the following months the amount Mrs H owed increased. 
Halifax wrote  to Mrs H about the situation and outstanding balance.  But as no payments or 
agreement to bring the account balance down were  received Halifax wrote to Mrs H at the 
end of October 2015 to say it intended  to take legal  action  which  would affect her credit file. 
Mrs H called Halifax in December 2015  to discuss the account and explained that she was 
about to give birth. She also said shed previously  complained about the charges on her 
account and asked for copies of her statements. Halifax  said that the charges were  applied 
correctly so didnt  agree itd made  a mistake. But it paid £30 to Mrs H in recognition of the 
service shed received  and asked her to call back to discuss payment options  after a couple 
of weeks. 
Mrs H next spoke with Halifax at the end of January 2016 and again complained about the 
charges applied to her account. Halifax didnt agree the charges were wrong but paid Mrs H 
£75 for the service  shed received and failing to send copies of statements. 
Earlier this year Mrs H referred her concerns  to the Financial Ombudsman Service  to look at. 
An investigator looked at whatd happened  but didnt  agree Halifaxs  charges should be 
refunded. He thought Halifax couldve been  clearer when Mrs H called in December 2015 to 
discuss her account as it didnt tell her it had already defaulted by that point. The investigator  
thought Halifax  had dealt with Mrs Hs complaint fairly so didnt  ask it to take any further 
action. Mrs H didnt agree so her complaints been  passed to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H says she feels the level of charges that have been applied to her account are unfair 
and too high. But, like the investigator, I have to take into account the Supreme Court ruling 
from 2009 that looked at account fees.  The court said that fees and charges cant be 
challenged on the basis that the amount  charged  is too high or unfair.
As a result of the court case I can only look at whether charges have been correctly  applied, 
in line with the account terms.  
Ive carefully looked at the available evidence, including account statements, and from what  
Ive seen Im satisfied the charges applied  to Mrs Hs account have been  done so correctly  
and in line with the account terms. So I havent found grounds to tell Halifax to refund them 
here. 
Ref: DRN40588892Mrs H has also raised concerns about  the default  she received after she wasnt  able to 
maintain her overdraft payments. Mrs H has explained that she thinks  Halifax shouldve 
offered more help when  she called in December 2015. But, like the investigator, I think  the 
important point here is that the overdraft had already  been defaulted when Mrs H called in 
December 2015.  Halifax has provided  evidence to show  it wrote to Mrs H on 
27 October 2015 asking  for full repayment in 14 days after which the account  would be 
defaulted.
The 14 day deadline had run out several weeks before Mrs H called Halifax and the account  
was defaulted.  So there was no way for Mrs H to avoid the default  when she called in 
December 2015.
And I also note that Mrs H hadnt  paid any money into her overdrawn account for several 
months before Halifax took the step of defaulting  the account.  I appreciate  Mrs H was 
pregnant during this period and had health concerns. But Ive heard a call from Mrs H to 
Halifax which confirms her partner  had stopped paying funds into her account which was 
why it fell into arrears. Im sorry to disappoint  Mrs H but I think  the default is an accurate 
reflection of how her account was run so Im unable to tell Halifax to amend  her credit file. 
Halifax paid Mrs H £30 in December 2015  and £75 in January 2016 in relation to the service 
she received when she called. Ive listened  to the calls and I agree the information  Mrs H 
couldve been clearer. Ive carefully considered the service Mrs H received and Im satisfied 
the £105 total figure Halifax paid fairly reflects the impact on her. 
Having looked  at all the available evidence Ive not found any evidence  that fees and 
charges have been incorrectly applied  to Mrs Hs overdraft. And Im satisfied  Halifax  acted 
reasonably when it defaulted  Mrs Hs account. Halifax  has paid a total of £105 for the service 
Mrs H received and I think thats fair in all the circumstances. So Im not telling Halifax  to 
take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 10 February  2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4058889