K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the advice he was given by BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd 
(BlackStar) to transfer his pension into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). He says the 
funds he was advised to invest in posed  more risk than he was prepared to take. 
background
Mr S was introduced to BlackStar by a third party in October 2014. He wished to receive 
advice on his pension  arrangements. BlackStar  recommended that he transfer his benefits  
from his existing personal pension into a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP). It also 
recommended the investments that the SIPP should  be invested in. These included 
investing in Colonial Capital Corporate Bonds and Dolphin Capital GmbH. 
The transfer took place in April 2015  and £13,000  of the pension  fund was invested in 
Colonial Capital, but the Dolphin Capital investment didnt take place and the money  
intended for this remained  in cash.  The balance of the SIPP  fund was invested  in a general  
investment account  (GIA). 
In August  2016,  BlackStar wrote  to Mr S. It said it had been  advised  by its regulatory body, 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA),  that it wanted to see a tightening  of criteria to clients  
such as Mr S who are interested in investing  in non-mainstream investments. BlackStar said 
that under  the new guidelines, the proposed investment in Dolphin Capital would be deemed 
unsuitable. But the investment in Colonial Capital had already been  completed, and wasnt 
affected by the changes. BlackStar  recommended  that the money  which was to have been 
invested in Dolphin Capital should be invested  in the GIA instead. Mr S didnt respond and 
the capital remained  in cash. 
In March 2017, Mr S complained to BlackStar.  He said hed received notification  from the 
administrator of Colonial Capital, and wanted  to complain about the advice hed been given. 
BlackStar didnt uphold the complaint.  It said Mr S had been referred by the third party with a 
view to receiving advice  on some  specific investment objectives. BlackStar said the advice 
was compatible with Mr Ss attitude to risk, capacity for loss and objectives for his pension  
benefits. The actual  investments would  be arranged by the third party, who had introduced 
them to Mr S. 
Mr S remained dissatisfied and referred  his complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  succeed. He noted that Mr S had no significant  
savings or investments, and wanted  to take the cash sum from his pension  to reduce his 
mortgage. But while it may have been  necessary  to transfer his existing pension  to a new 
scheme to achieve  this, Mr S shouldnt have been advised to invest  in Colonial Capital and 
Dolphin Capital. These were unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS) which  
werent suitable for him. 
But the adjudicator noted that the intended  investment  in Dolphin Capital never went  ahead, 
and Mr S didnt respond to BlackStars later recommendation that the capital should be 
invested in the GIA. As such, he didnt think BlackStar should liable for any loss in respect  of 
that part of the pension  fund. 
Ref: DRN44937722Mr Ss representative said it mostly  agreed  with the adjudicators view.  It questioned why 
BlackStar had left it until August 2015 to contact Mr S about the missed investment. The 
capital was receiving  only minimal interest  during the 15 months since the transfer. It also 
questioned whether the GIA was suitable for Mr S, and suggested  he should also be 
compensated for this investment. 
BlackStar didnt agree  with the adjudicators view. Hed said that the two investments 
referred to were UCIS.  This wasnt correct  - they were  non-readily realisable securities 
(NRRS). These types of investments werent  included in the regulators restrictions  applying 
to UCIS. BlackStar had undertaken due diligence on certain NRRS investments. The 
investments in Colonial Capital and Dolphin Capital were recommended  to Mr S as part of 
his overall pension portfolio. 
The adjudicator considered the points made by the parties. He explained it was still his view 
that the complaint should be upheld, but now thought that the risk posed by the GIA was 
greater than Mr S wanted to take. He also thought Mr S shouldnt  have been advised to 
invest in Dolphin Capital  at the outset. Overall,  he thought Mrs S should be compensated for 
the SIPP as a whole, and not just the investment in Colonial Capital. 
BlackStar told us it still didnt agree. It said it wasnt responsible for the delay in the Dolphin 
Capital investment. This was due to be arranged  by the third party introducer. So this part of 
the pension should be excluded from the compensation. The adjudicator  had decided  that 
while the advice  was generally suitable, the construction of the portfolio wasnt.  This was 
simply his opinion, and didnt take account  of the law and regulations  at the time.  BlackStar  
didnt think this was fair. 
The matter  has now been passed to me for consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S was referred to BlackStar by a third party, who I understand werent authorised  to give 
financial advice. I note BlackStar said, when responding to Mr Ss complaint, that the 
investments were arranged by the third party. 
But BlackStar accepted Mr S as a retail client,  and wrote to him with its recommendations. It 
arranged the transfer from his existing  pension plan into the SIPP.  Im therefore satisfied that 
BlackStar is responsible  for the advice Mr S was given. I also note that the application for the 
investment in Colonial Capital showed  BlackStar  as the advisory firm, and BlackStar  sent the 
form to Mr S for signing. 
Mr S wished to consider  his retirement provision in 2014. He had an existing  personal  
pension plan valued at around £80,000. He had no other pension  benefits, although his wife 
was a member of an occupational pension scheme. Mr S had no savings or investments. He 
was assessed  as having an attitude to risk of 9 on a scale of 1 to 10. But Mr S later told 
BlackStar that he thought this should be 6. 
Ref: DRN44937723BlackStar advised Mr S to transfer his personal  pension plan into a SIPP,  and invest the 
transfer value  as follows:
£13,000 in Colonial  Capital Corporate  Bond
£12,000 in Dolphin  Capital GmbH
£53,285 in a range of collective funds
Mr S then wrote to BlackStar to say he wanted  to take the maximum tax free cash  sum 
available to him (25%).  BlackStar sent Mr S an amended recommendation taking this into 
account. The revised investments it recommended were:
£38,977 in collective funds
£10,000 in Colonial  Capital
£8,340 in Dolphin Capital
£2,000 in cash
In addition, £2,690 would  be applied  to initial fees.
On the whole, I dont  think  the advice BlackStar  gave  Mr S was suitable, and Ill explain why. 
Blackstar assessed Mr S as having a high attitude  to risk (9 on a scale of 1 to 10). I dont find 
it likely  this was an accurate assessment. It seems Mr S had little or no investment 
experience, and his personal pension was invested in a with-profits  fund. This would 
generally be viewed  as posing  a cautious degree of risk. I think its unlikely Mr S would  have 
wanted to radically  increase the risk he was taking with his pension fund, particularly as he 
was only seven years or so away from retirement. 
In fact, Mr S contacted  BlackStar to say that its assessment  was wrong.  He seems to have 
thought his risk tolerance should  be re-categorised as 6 on BlackStars  scale. But while 
BlackStar acknowledged this, Im not convinced it took it into account in its 
recommendations. 
Part of the SIPP was to be placed  in unregulated funds. BlackStar has said the Colonial 
Capital and Dolphin  Capital  investments werent  UCIS, as described by the adjudicator, but 
rather they were NRRSs. But while I understand this distinction, and that such investments 
werent included  in the regulators  restrictions applying to the promotion  of UCIS, they were 
nonetheless high risk unregulated investments. 
Colonial Capital was a new start-up with no track record. It invested in distressed residential 
property (which had been  foreclosed)  in the USA.  I understand that Colonial Capital Group  
went into administration in March  2017.
Dolphin Capital was German-based company which invested in the conversion and 
refurbishment of listed buildings (in Germany) for residential use. 
Both these  investments were very specialised and non-mainstream. They  involved  similar 
underlying assets,  which  were based  overseas. I think they presented  a high degree of risk. 
Also, there was no ready  market for the investments, and so were  potentially illiquid. As 
such, Mr S may well have  experienced difficulty in redeeming the investments. This could 
have impacted on his pension  planning. 
Ref: DRN44937724On balance, I dont  think these investments were suitable for Mr S. And while BlackStars 
suitability report did make some reference to the risks involved, I dont think these were  
explained thoroughly. Im therefore not convinced Mr S fully understood the nature  or extent 
of the risks.  
I appreciate these investments made up only part of Mr Ss pension fund. But they still 
represented around 30% of the investable  fund, once the tax free cash  and initial fees were  
deducted. So a significant proportion of his pension would be reliant on these investments. 
BlackStar also recommended that a large  part of the pension  fund should be invested  in the 
GIA  which  was comprised of a range of conventional investment funds. But while I accept 
these didnt pose  the same  nature  or level of risk as the two NRRS investments, I dont think 
the GIA was suitable for Mr S. While it contained  an element of lower  risk funds,  a major 
portion were  funds investing in equities. These  included overseas equities  such  as Asia and 
Europe.  
I think the investment  strategy proposed by BlackStar for Mr Ss pension, when considered 
overall, presented  more  risk than he was prepared,  or in a position, to take. 
Im aware that the proposed investment in Dolphin Capital didnt go ahead. Its not clear why. 
I note BlackStar say that while  it was responsible for advising Mr S, it was the third party  
introducer who was responsible for actually arranging the investments. But Im mindful that 
BlackStar seems to have  been instrumental in arranging  the investment in Colonial Capital. 
In any event, as Ive noted  above, Dolphin Capital wasnt a suitable investment for Mr S, and 
so shouldnt have  been recommended in the first place. While  Mr S wasnt exposed to the 
risks posed  by the investment, on the other hand  this part of his capital would have had 
received minimal growth. 
Im also mindful that BlackStar has said the investments it recommended  were part of a 
general portfolio  for Mr Ss SIPP. In the circumstances, I think  it would be fair and 
reasonable to treat the SIPP as a whole in relation  to how Mr S should be compensated. 
Had it recommended  a suitable investment portfolio, there would be no reason to uphold the 
complaint.
Ive set out below how compensation should be calculated.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably  
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr S would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Ss circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
Ref: DRN44937725what should  BlackStar do?
To compensate Mr S fairly,  BlackStar  must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ss investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
BlackStar should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, BlackStar should  pay into Mr Ss pension  plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If BlackStar  is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ss pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ss actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would  
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr S £250 for the trouble and upset hes been caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If BlackStar  deducts  income  tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr S how much has been taken  off. BlackStar should give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Ref: DRN44937726actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. BlackStar should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If BlackStar  is unable to purchase  any of the investments,  the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. BlackStar may require that Mr S provides 
an undertaking to pay BlackStar any amount he may receive from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. BlackStar will need to meet any costs in drawing 
up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if BlackStar totals all those payments and deducts that figure 
at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr S wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ss circumstances  and risk attitude.
Ref: DRN44937727my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that BlackStar  Wealth Management Ltd should pay 
the amount calculated  as set out above.
BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd should provide details of its calculation  to Mr S in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4493772