K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mrs R took out with a store  card in 2002. Its been 
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Mrs R that she had a choice about it. But 
Mrs R says the policy was added without any discussion with her.
FICL has sent us a copy of Mrs Rs application  form for the store card.  This included a 
section on PPI, with a space for her to sign if she wanted to take it out. And Mrs R has 
signed in the space.
If Mrs R didnt want the PPI, I think she couldve left the space blank. So I think  FICL made it 
clear to her that she had a choice about  the PPI. And that Mrs R chose to take it, knowing 
she didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Mrs R any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Mrs R. But it did have to make  sure she got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the cover. The policy  couldve  paid out for longer  than Mrs R says she wouldve been 
entitled to full sick pay. And shes told us she didnt  have any savings or other  means she 
couldve used to make  her repayments if she wasnt earning. So it looks like the PPI couldve 
been useful to her if something went wrong.
And so I dont think better information about  the PPI wouldve put Mrs R off taking  it out.
Ref: DRN48664692my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4866469