K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through a hire purchase 
agreement with Motability Operations Limited  (MO).
background
Mr H took receipt of a new car in June 2014. He financed the deal through a hire agreement 
with MO in which MO were  responsible  for the servicing and maintenance of the vehicle. But 
in October 2016  the Department  of Work and Pensions reassessed Mr H and decided  he 
was no longer eligible for mobility allowance. So in line with the terms and conditions  of his 
contract the finance  agreement was terminated.  
Mr H therefore decided  to buy the car from MO. He paid for the car with cash  but ten months  
later he complained to MO. He said their tyre supplier, Ill call them K, had fitted the wrong 
tyres to the car when  theyd been  replaced  during  his hire period. Theyd  fitted the 
manufacturers star rated  tyres  to one axle but had fitted a different type to the rear axle.
He said hed had problems with the cars  gearbox since  he bought it and had now been told 
by one of the manufacturers dealerships that this was because star rated tyres hadnt been  
fitted to all wheels.  The manufacturer had explained this was imperative  on such a four 
wheel drive car. Theyd repaired the gearbox as a gesture of goodwill but Mr H had to pay 
for the tyres  and a diagnostic  and he wanted  MO to refund these charges.
MO disagreed. They said they were independent of K and not responsible for their actions.  
But regardless, they said that Mr H must have been aware  different  tyres had been fitted 
when he decided to buy the car off them but it was his decision to proceed  with the purchase 
and as hed bought the car as is they could not be held responsible for a fault he was 
aware of when the car was sold. They also said that as he hadnt brought his complaint 
about the tyres to them until hed had the car for ten months he was outside of the six 
months within which they said he may be able to claim under  the Consumer Rights  Act 
2015.
So Mr H referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided his view.  He 
thought it was fair to suggest K was acting  as an agent of MO and he was persuaded by the 
dealerships testimony  that the wrong  tyres had been fitted to Mr Hs car. He thought this 
was likely as he noted Mr H reported  the juddering, that had been apparent  on his car, was 
much better once theyd  been replaced.  So he suggested MO refund the cost of the tyres; 
pay for the diagnostic that had been  completed at Mr Hs expense and pay him £200 
compensation in recognition of the trouble and upset hed been caused.
MO didnt agree with the investigator and for the reasons Ive already given they asked for a 
final decision  by an ombudsman. And Mr H still thought it would be fair to consider refunding  
the gearbox repair costs  that the manufacturers  dealership had paid for as he said his 
goodwill with them would be diminished  if they didnt get their money back. He also wanted 
MO to pay for repairs  to the brakes that he recently had done and he thought  they should 
pay interest of any settlement as he had been deprived of the money.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN48162882I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint MO so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H initially acquired his car under a hire agreement. Thats a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service would have been able to look into complaints about  it. 
The agreement said that MO would replace tyres that had become unsafe or unsuitable 
during the period of hire.
They did so during the period of the lease and I think  its fair to say they were  therefore 
responsible for putting things right if anything  went wrong with that work. Im persuaded that 
its likely  something was wrong with that work  at the time, when Mr Hs contract  was still 
active, but that the problem has taken  a time to manifest. I say that because its clear  that 
since Mr H changed the tyres the problem has resolved itself. So I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for MO to put this right.
MO have referred to the Consumer Rights Act 2015  and have suggested that, as the 
problem Mr H referred to them was referred more than six months after his agreement  
commenced, his claim  was invalidated. The legislation says: 
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
But this complaint isnt about  whether the car conformed to the contract or in other words 
whether it was of satisfactory quality at the inception of the agreement. Its about whether the 
service that was contractually  required of MO (the replacement of tyres) was done properly. 
And here Im not persuaded that it was.
Mr H hasnt provided invoices for the replacement tyres hes had fitted  but I think  if he does 
provide them  MO should refund his cost, adding 8% interest from the date Mr H incurred the 
expense. 
Hes also been inconvenienced  by this matter;  particularly  as hes needed  to raise a 
complaint and pursue it through this service.  So, in the circumstances, I agree with the 
investigators suggestion that MO pay him £200  to compensate  him for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced.
I dont think it would  be fair to ask MO to refund any gearbox repair  charges. These have 
been completed free of charge and Ive not seen sufficient evidence  that Mr H has incurred  
any financial  loss. Its his claim  which derives  from his agreement with MO. So it wouldnt be 
reasonable to compensate a third party and Im not persuaded that theres sufficient 
Ref: DRN48162883evidence a failure to refund the costs would impact on Mr Hs relationship with that third 
party in the future.
I dont think it would  be reasonable to ask MO to refund the recent costs  Mr H has incurred 
repairing the brakes on the car either. They are wear and tear items and Ive not seen 
evidence that the repairs are related  to any issue Mr H may have had with the car when his 
agreement with MO started  in June 2014.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Motability Operations 
Limited to:
refund  the cost of two replacement tyres when provided with receipts for the work by 
Mr H and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment  to the date of settlement
refund  the cost of Mr Hs diagnostic report when provided with the receipt and add 
8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of settlement
pay Mr H £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced as a result of this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4816288