K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Ss credit  card account  when she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Mrs S mainly  complains that she never  asked for PPI and she says she didnt need it. She 
also told us that she never had a conversation about  PPI.
Mrs S has asked  for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Ive taken into account that Mrs S thought she mightve taken out the card by post and she 
has no memory of PPI being mentioned  to her. 
Halifaxs records show that she applied  for her credit card and PPI in a Halifax branch. And, 
looking at her completed application, I think  thats probably what  happened.  This doesnt  
look like a postal application  form. So its possible that Mrs S did have a conversation  about 
PPI  although its completely understandable if shes now forgotten this. 
I dont know what was discussed when Mrs S took out her credit card. But on the application 
form Mrs S completed to get this card theres  a pre-printed cross in the box to have PPI 
added to the account. So I think she wouldve seen that it was up to her to say if having  PPI 
was something she wanted.  
And I think the way that the form was completed  before  being  printed off for her to sign 
probably reflects what Mrs S told the advisor she wanted. If she hadnt  wanted to have PPI 
with her credit card, Mrs S couldve left the PPI box blank. 
Mrs S signed the declaration on her completed  application confirming that the information 
shown on the form was correct.
So, on balance, I think that Halifax made  Mrs S aware that the PPI was optional and that she 
chose to take it. 
Halifax and Mrs S told us it recommended the PPI to her. So, this means  that Halifax  had to 
check the cover it advised Mrs S to have was suitable for her. 
Ref: DRN46862362Mrs S was eligible for the PPI when she took it out.
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But Mrs S chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. Mrs S told us she was entitled  to statutory sick pay. But the policy  wouldve 
paid more than her minimum credit card repayments  in addition to this sick pay, for up to 
12 months if she couldnt work, giving Mrs S a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
And it wouldve paid out if Mrs S lost her job unexpectedly. She doesnt  appear  to have had 
significant other means she couldve relied on. Being entitled to redundancy benefits  
wouldnt have helped  Mrs S if she was off work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to 
any redundancy money she mightve  got if shed lost her job, giving her some  additional 
financial security in those  circumstances.  
Taking everything into account,  I think that PPI was suitable for Mrs S. 
Mrs S wasnt  affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
reasonably priced  and apparently affordable when she signed up to it. Mrs S couldve 
cancelled the policy at any time without incurring any extra cost if she decided  she didnt 
want to pay for PPI. 
Looked at overall, I think it unlikely Mrs S wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided.  On balance I think shed still have taken out the policy.  
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs S paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs S back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mrs S.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4686236