K822xcomplaint
Ms A has complained about  poor customer service from Barclays  Bank UK PLC when she 
switched her mortgage to a new product.
In this decision, where I refer to Barclays, this includes  its solicitors,  who were  agents of the 
bank in this transaction.
background 
The background to this case is relatively  simple. In August 2017  Ms A wanted  to rearrange 
her mortgage with Barclays onto a new product. This took much  longer than Ms A had 
anticipated, completing in January 2018.  Ms A complained to Barclays about poor customer 
service from the bank and its solicitors.
Barclays didnt uphold  the complaint, so Ms A brought  it to us, where an adjudicator looked 
at what had happened. At first he didnt  think Barclays  had done anything wrong. But after 
reconsidering, he accepted that Barclays service fell short  of an acceptable standard. He 
asked Barclays to pay compensation  of £200, which it agreed  to do. Ms A didnt accept  this, 
and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its not disputed  that there were shortcomings in the service Ms A received from Barclays. 
There were difficulties with communication that the solicitors failed properly to grasp,  
address or respond to. I dont need to go into detail about everything that happened, 
because thats  not in dispute. All I need to decide  is the appropriate level of compensation 
for this.
Im satisfied the transaction took longer to complete than normal, and that, in part, the 
solicitors were responsible for some of the delays. Equally, there were occasions when Ms A 
didnt respond  to attempts by the solicitors to contact her. So Im not persuaded that 
Barclays is 100% responsible for the length  of time it took to complete the remortgage.
Im satisfied Ms A was caused  trouble and inconvenience by the delays that can be 
attributed to the solicitors. In the circumstances, Im satisfied  that a payment of £200 for this 
is fair, reasonable  and proportionate.
my final decision
My decision  is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC must pay Ms A £200 in full and final settlement of 
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42498042
Ref: DRN4249804