K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Gain Credit  LLC (trading  as Lending Stream) lent him money that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
Mr P wants  Lending Stream to refund the interest  that he paid on loan two.
background
Mr P took out two loans with Lending  Stream  between August 2011 and March 2012.   Loan 
one was for £365 and loan two was for £750.  Lending Stream expected Mr P to repay both 
loans by six monthly instalments. 
Mr P declared his net monthly income  to be £3,300 for loan one and £2,500 for loan two. 
Lending Stream recorded Mr Ps monthly expenditure to be £2,000 for both loans.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ps complaint be upheld.  He thought that Lending 
Streams checks  went far enough  before both loans.  And that based on the information Mr P 
gave about his circumstances both loans  appeared affordable.
Mr P disagrees with the adjudicators assessment of loan two. Mr P questions  why he 
wouldve increased his level of borrowing so much if he wasnt in financial difficulties. 
Mr P says he was borrowing from multiple lenders at the time. Mr P says that due to reasons 
beyond his control his salary was actually lower than he declared to Lending Stream. He 
asks why Lending Stream didnt ask for proof of his income.
Mr P says he was thousands of pounds in debt at the time. Mr P thinks that if Lending 
Stream had carried out the rigorous affordability  assessment that it says it did, Lending 
Stream wouldve discovered that he was in financial difficulties. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr P could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
I agree  with the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loan one. As Mr P has indicated 
that he agrees  loan one was probably  lent responsibly, I dont consider I need  to say 
anything more about it. 
loan two
Ref: DRN46422202I appreciate what Mr P says about  increasing the level of borrowing when he took out loan 
two. However, Lending Stream  didnt expect  him to repay all of this in one payment. Mr P 
was able to repay loan two over six months.
Mr P hadnt  missed any payments on loan one so I cant say that Lending Stream  shouldve 
reasonably been alerted to any possible financial difficulties.
As Lending Stream hasnt given us any of the credit  search results  I cant say whether it was 
aware of any information that shouldve led it to ask more  questions than it did. A lender 
doesnt always have  access to the same  level of detail that a consumer can see on their own 
report. I should also say that around the time of loans one and two, not all short term lenders 
routinely shared information with the credit reference agencies.  This means  that its likely 
Lending Stream wouldnt  have been  aware  of some or all of Mr Ps other short term lending 
commitments unless  he told it about  them.
Lending Stream has given  us evidence that it asked  Mr P for details of his income  and 
outgoings. Based on the information  that Mr P gave, it looked as though he had a disposable 
income of around  £500. The maximum monthly repayment on loan two was £375 so it 
appeared as though Mr P could afford  the repayments.
I understand that Mr Ps financial situation was worse  than he told Lending Stream  but I 
dont think with what I consider to have been proportionate checks Lending  Stream  wouldve 
been aware of this. I wouldnt, for example, have expected Lending Stream to go as far as 
asking Mr P about his other short term loans. And I dont think  it wouldve been proportionate 
to expect Lending Stream to verify the financial information that Mr P gave by asking to see 
bank statements for example.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr P but I dont uphold his complaint about  either  loan.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4642220