K822xComplaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation),  following  
a claim against it under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA)  1974.
Background 
Mr M was contacted by a company,  Ill refer to it as P, which  supplied and installed solar  
panel systems. Following  a subsequent  meeting at his home,  Mr M agreed to enter into a 
contract for P to supply  and install a solar panel  system costing £9,940.  To fund this he also 
agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
Mr M made a claim under section 75 (s75) of the CCA via his representative. The 
representative said that P had told Mr M that the solar panels would be self-funded  and that 
his monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set  by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income 
as well as any savings  hed make by using the electricity generated by the panels rather 
than buying it from his energy provider. But that hadnt happened.  Instead, the monthly  loan 
repayments had been much higher  than any income and savings Mr M had made.
In its initial  final response letter,  Creation  said that it didnt have enough information to 
conclude that the benefits of the solar panel system had been misrepresented  to Mr M. 
Because of this, it didnt uphold his complaint. Unhappy with this response,  Mr M referred his 
complaint to our service.
Following our involvement, Creation made an offer of compensation to resolve the 
complaint. It said it had worked out the potential income and savings to Mr M over the term 
of the loan. It then said it would  restructure the loan to ensure that he didnt pay any more  
than this over the original  10 year term. As Mr M had settled  his loan early this meant 
Creation offered to refund directly to him around  £2,900. This was made up of any 
overpayments Mr M had made as well as 8% simple interest. Creation also offered to pay 
him £100 to recognise the trouble and upset  caused.
One of our investigators  looked into the offer put forward by Creation. She was satisfied that 
it was fair. Mr M, via his representative, didnt agree. It had provided  its own calculation  as to 
how the refund should be calculated and worked out that Mr M should receive a refund of 
around £7,000.  
Our investigator recently  wrote to both Creation  and Mr Ms representative. She explained  
that as Mr M had refinanced his loan with Creation  with another provider  that Creation 
should also refund the proportion of interest that he was charged that relates  to the amount  
he used to pay off the Creation loan.
Neither party responded to the investigators  further  view so the case  has been passed to me 
to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says that he was cold-called  and during a subsequent sales  meeting told that the solar 
panels would be entirely self-financing. As neither  Creation  nor Mr M dispute that P 
Ref: DRN47404132misrepresented the benefits of the solar panel  system  this decision will deal with what I 
consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  and with minimum formality. In cases  like 
this one, determining  fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair 
and reasonable outcome taking into account  the particular circumstances.
Self-funding offer
Ive considered whether it would be fair to put Mr M back in the position he would  have been  
in if there  had been no misrepresentation.  However,  here, I dont think it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the solar  panels from his home.  I think  the fair 
outcome here is to put Mr M in a position  where the solar panels are self-funding  over the 
original term of the loan.  By allowing him to keep the panels,  Im satisfied that he will likely 
benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward (i.e. after the term of the 
loan has finished).
Mr Ms representative accepts that making  the panels self-funding  over the original term of 
the loan is fair. However, it doesnt agree with the method that has been  used  and has put 
forward its own calculation which it says provides a fairer outcome.
Ive reviewed the calculation that Mr Ms representative has put forward. Ive noted  that its 
calculation doesnt  include  any electricity savings.
So, Ive gone  on to consider whether its fair and reasonable  to take electricity  savings into 
account when  deciding fair compensation.  I think its fair to take into account the electricity 
generated by the solar panel  system.  On the one hand Mr M has to pay their loan and for 
any electricity  used  in addition to that generated by the solar panels. And on the other, he 
can off-set those payments by the FIT income  payments and the savings associated  with the 
electricity generated  by the solar panels. I consider it would be unfair to ignore the electricity  
generated and used  by Mr M when calculating fair compensation. 
I have carefully considered the methodology Creation has submitted to this service  to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar panel  system.  This methodology is based on the 
actual performance and estimated future  performance of Mr Ms solar panel system.
Creation has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr Ms solar 
panels, it will use a number of assumptions. These  include a self-consumption rate of 37%. 
Self-consumption is impacted by the period  of time that someone spends in their home  and 
is able to use, or self-consume, the electricity generated  by their solar  panels. It is self-
evident that determining an exact  figure  over the period of the loan is difficult.  
Im satisfied that using  a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair and reasonable in this case. Im 
of the view that this takes into account changing  consumer  occupancy habits over the 
lifetime of the solar  panels. Once the loan has been repaid, Im satisfied it is highly likely that 
Mr M will continue  to benefit  from the system as a result of a reduction in his electricity bills 
because of the electricity  generated by the panels and the FIT payments.
Ive also considered the other assumptions used by Creation.  These include electricity  price 
inflation, the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI). Im of the view that 
these appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the 
Ref: DRN47404133actual average RPI for the last four years doesnt  seem to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions  that have been used by Creation provide a fair 
and reasonable basis  for calculating fair compensation.
Mr Ms representative has also included  a payment of £1,000 to cover  the cost of replacing  
the inverter, in its calculation of what it considers to be fair compensation.
Ive looked at the current information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that 
solar panels  dont need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter  will need replacing 
sometime during  the lifetime of the panels at a cost of about £800.
I accept that a consumer  could  have  some maintenance and repair  costs  over the lifetime of 
the solar panels.  The proposed approach to put things right for the consumer is to make the 
solar panel  self-funding over the original  term of the loan. Once the loan has been repaid 
Mr M is highly likely to enjoy  significant benefit  from the solar panel  system by way of 
savings and FIT income going forward. In addition, as Mr M has settled his Creation  loan 
and will get back a lump  sum to cover the overpayments  together with the interest.
Based on the available information Im satisfied  that the potential  benefit will more than cover 
any future maintenance costs and Mr M will be able to use his compensation payment to pay 
for a replacement inverter if necessary. 
Because of the reasons  Ive given above Im satisfied that Creations  offer to make  the 
panels self-funding over the term of the loan is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
Refinanced loan
Mr M has refinanced his Creation loan with a new lender. At the time he did this he also 
borrowed some  additional money for a new purchase.
Our investigator thought that Creation, in addition to its offer to make the panels self-funding, 
should also refund Mr M the proportion of interest  he was charged  on his new loan that 
related to the amount  he used to pay off his Creation loan.
Ive thought carefully on this point. Mr M agreed to enter into the contract with P on the basis  
that his monthly  loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and any savings  
associated by using  the electricity generated by his panels rather  than buying it from his 
energy provider.  And this hasnt happened. Neither Creation nor Mr M dispute that P had 
misrepresented the benefits of the solar panels  and Im satisfied it was this 
misrepresentation that induced him to enter  into the contract.  
Im satisfied that if Mr Ms solar panel  system had been self-funding,  he wouldnt have 
refinanced the Creation loan as his solar panel  system would have been performing as he 
had expected and agreed it would. Therefore he wouldnt have incurred the additional  
interest he was charged. Therefore, Im satisfied that the additional interest he has been 
charged forms part of the overall cost of the solar panel system and he should  be refunded 
this in addition  to the self-funding offer.
As the solar panel system  wasnt self-funding  Mr M has been charged additional interest. So, 
Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable for Creation to refund him the proportion  of interest 
he was charged on the amount he borrowed to pay off the Creation loan for the reason I 
have explained  above.
Ref: DRN47404134Summary
In summary  Im satisfied  that the offer put forward by Creation to make  Mr Ms solar panels  
self-funding over the original term of the loan is fair.
In addition to its offer, Creation should also refund Mr M the proportion of interest  that he 
was charged on his new loan that relates  to the amount he borrowed to settle his Creation 
loan.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information  available at the time that Mr M first 
contacted Creation that means his claim should have been upheld. The fact that this didnt 
happen undoubtedly caused  him trouble and upset and Ill consequently make  an award of 
£100 to cover this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
allow Mr M to keep  the solar panels,
estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr M from the panels over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mr Ms electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
add 8% simple interest* to any overpayments  from the date of the overpayment  to 
the date of the settlement,
pay Mr M the proportion of interest he was charged on his new loan that relates to 
the amount he borrowed  to settle  his Creation loan; and,
pay Mr M £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer  Finance  Ltd consider that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should 
also give him a certificate showing  this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN4740413