K820x#14complaint
Mr B says that when  he applied to his mortgagee Lloyds Bank  PLC for a mortgage  product 
he was told by letter that hed be exempt from further checks for a suitable repayment 
vehicle for the length of his mortgage.
However he says that when the product came to an end in 2017  he tried to make a further  
application and this was refused. He says Lloyds denied  all knowledge of the agreement to 
make him exempt. No longer having the letter, he had to accept a worse  rate. 
When he later found the letter Lloyds told him that it had meant to say the length  of the 
mortgage product  not the term of the mortgage. Mr B believes hes lost out on a significant 
amount of interest  by having to take a worse deal, which hed like Lloyds to refund. Hed also 
like his ongoing losses to be taken into account.
background
In 2011 Mr B took an interest-only mortgage with Lloyds, secured  on property 1. In or about 
August 2015 he applied  to Lloyds for an interest rate product.  I assume  that initially  Lloyds 
wasnt happy with his intended  repayment  vehicle because on 2 September  2015 it wrote  to 
him:
Following your complaint relating to your product transfer application,  we are sorry that you 
remain unhappy.My  understanding of your complaint  is that we are unable to accept  the 
properties held in joint names with your wife as a repayment vehicle, as this mortgage  
account is held in your sole name.
I have discussed  your application  with our Mortgage Policy  department.  As an exception, 
they have agreed  that we can use these properties as a repayment vehicle, provided they 
have sufficient equity  to support your interest only mortgage.
So Mr B got a fixed rate product until 31 October  2017. It follows,  I think, that Lloyds  must  
also have accepted the jointly-owned repayment  vehicle  in 2011.
Following expiry of that product Mr B applied for a further advance and another  product 
commencing in November  2017.  It seems Mr B wasnt happy with how that application was 
dealt with, because  on 24 January 2018 Lloyds replied to a complaint hed made.  It said:
I understand youre concerned about  the additional costs you have incurred when  
completing a product  transfer as well as a mortgage with Lloyds due to issues that Lloyds 
had with the interest only status of your mortgages. You want  to be recompensed for these 
costs that have been incurred due to this being of no fault of your own.
Lloyds said that the background to this was that in 2017 Mr B wished to secure new interest  
rates on both property  1 and another property he owned, property 2. But as Mr B was 
planning to sell property  2, an interest product wasnt appropriate since it would carry an 
early repayment charge  (ERC). 
However, the interest only repayment strategies to be used, which  were  other  properties,  
were all in joint names,  and as such not suitable as property 1 was in the sole name of Mr B. 
Lloyds said this was something Mr B was already aware was a problem as when he 
Ref: DRN42517152completed a product transfer in 2015, this was an issue he encountered  and he made a 
complaint where  a one off exception was granted as a resolution  at executive level. 
In 2017 a further advance  on property 1 wouldnt be agreed as Mr B wouldnt have an 
acceptable repayment vehicle for this transaction. He would have been requesting new 
borrowing.
Lloyds said the alternate  plan was to then carry out a new product on property 1 and a new 
mortgage on property  2. As Mr B did have to have  a new mortgage rather  than a further  
advance, it was correct that he incurred solicitors costs and the application for the new 
mortgage would take longer than a further advance. But Mr B was never entitled to complete 
a further advance or port a mortgage, and Lloyds  hadnt said he could. So it wouldnt cover  
any costs he incurred  for the mortgage  on property 2.
Lloyds said that when completing  the new product on property 1, Mr B was unhappy  that he 
couldnt increase  the mortgage  to qualify for a lower rate which was available for mortgages 
above £100,000. Unfortunately he didnt meet the criteria to extend the borrowing any 
further, regardless of the amount. He had made  overpayments, but he didnt have the type of 
mortgage which would allow  these to be requested back.
Although the new product application  was begun in October 2017, Lloyds hadnt actioned a 
necessary review until November, meaning a months payment had been taken at the higher 
standard variable  rate (SVR). To put this right Lloyds would reconstruct the account so the 
new product began in November. 
Mr B then complained further to Lloyds about  its failure to accept  the jointly-owned 
repayment vehicle  for a further advance of £55,000 on property  1. Hed had to take out the 
mortgage on property  2 instead.  This had left him out of pocket. Lloyds responded on 
13 March 2018.  It acknowledged  that the letter of 2 September  2015 should have made it 
clear that the exception  was for the 2015 transaction  only and not the whole term of the 
mortgage. For this Lloyds had made a compensation  payment  of £100. Mr B wasnt happy  
with this amount  and had asked for it to be increased to £200. Lloyds wasnt willing  to do 
that.
Mr B then complained to our service. He said that when his rate came to an end in 2017 he 
had tried to apply for further borrowing and another product but Lloyds  had refused. He said 
Lloyds had told him hed been  red flagged  since  2015 and that he knew  this. Lloyds had 
said the September 2015 letter should have  made  it clear that the concession  was only for 
the length of the 2015 product, i.e. two years, not for the whole term of the mortgage.
Our investigator didnt  recommend Mr Bs complaint  be upheld. He said the decision by 
Lloyds in 2015 would have been  made  with the current mortgage situation in mind. It didnt 
agree to waive any further checks if changes were to be made to the mortgage. As Mr B 
wanted further borrowing in 2017,  this would need to done in line with Lloyds current lending 
criteria.
The investigator said Mr B had explained that he made overpayments to his mortgage and 
then every so often he borrowed more money again  to pay for certain things. The terms and 
conditions of the mortgage did confirm  that Mr B was allowed to make over payments and 
underpayments. The underpayments were  acceptable as long as the borrower had 
previously over paid by the same amount. On this mortgage there  wasnt  the ability  to 
drawdown on the balance that had been overpaid. 
Ref: DRN42517153Mr B didnt agree. He said:
Where I felt and even now feel aggrieved and therefore what  I would like to be addressed  
and answered  is that following an in depth investigation in 2015 Lloyds deemed  and 
expressly informed me that ongoing  the jointly held properties would be accepted as an 
acceptable and bone fide repayment  vehicle in respect of the £100k mortgage solely in my 
name.If I had been aware I would certainly  not have overpaid the mortgage and let the 
balance drop below the key £100k  level as this is a historic band  threshold for a lower  rate
So the complaints  been passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B said in his complaint  to us that when his rate came to an end in 2017 he made  another 
application for a better interest  rate and this was refused, so he had to accept a worse  rate. 
But in fact I think from the documents that hes actually making two complaints:
1.Lloyds reneged on an agreement to accept  the jointly-owned repayment vehicle and 
refused the further advance on property 1 because the vehicle was inadequate.
2.Lloyds refused to allow him to claw back his overpayments in order  to qualify for the 
£100,000-plus rate.
Ill deal with these  in turn.
1.I dont agree with Mr B that Lloyds expressly  stated in writing that the account was to be 
exempted for the duration of the mortgage. The letter of 2 September 2015 didnt say 
that the jointly-owned  property would be an acceptable repayment vehicle for the 
remainder of the term. Nor did it say that it would only be acceptable  for the duration  of 
the 2015 product. The letter didnt expressly deal with the issue  at all.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOB)  sets out in its rules  that for interest only mortgages,  it expects  
stringent assessments  of repayment strategies, before lenders agree to vary mortgages. 
The transitional arrangements  say those  requirements neednt be applied where the loan 
was taken out before April 2014,  hasnt been  increased since then, doesnt  involve  
additional borrowing, and the proposed varied loan would  be in the borrowers best 
interests.
However Mr Bs 2017 proposal did involve additional  borrowing so it was right for Lloyds  
to make an assessment  and consider  whether  Mr B had a credible repayment  strategy.  
In line with its current lending criteria, Lloyds had concerns  about  the repayment  vehicle. 
Ultimately the mortgage was solely  in Mr Bs name and the repayment vehicle was in 
joint names. If it came to the end of the term and Mrs B didnt want  to sell the property 
then there  would be problems in repaying  the outstanding balance.
Lloyds originally agreed to the joint repayment vehicle when the mortgage  was taken out, 
and again on the product application  in 2015. But that doesnt mean Lloyds would be 
Ref: DRN42517154required to increase its risk by lending further on the mortgage. I dont consider its 
refusal to do that was unfair and I note that Mr B was able to make  the further borrowing 
he wanted against property 2 which was in joint names.
2.In his complaint  to us, Mr B said Lloyds had refused his 2017 application for a better  
interest rate. But I dont  think  that can be right, because it made him an offer dated 
2 November 2017 for a product at an initial fixed rate of 2.04% until 31 January 2020 on 
the interest-only property 1 mortgage  with no specified repayment plan. 
Mr Bs email to Lloyds of 9 August 2018  suggests  that this didnt proceed because Mr B 
was looking for the lower  above £100k rate. Hed made overpayments and wanted to 
draw these back in order  to increase his mortgage  balance over £100,000  and obtain  the 
lower rate. However, he didnt have a flexible  mortgage which would allow  overpayments  
to be drawn back unequivocally. The overpayments reduce the amount outstanding and 
any payment calculations are based  on the lower  outstanding balance.  I dont consider 
Lloyds acted unfairly towards Mr B here either.  Nor did it have any duty to warn him 
against making overpayments.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4251715