K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 2004. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Mrs H says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
background
I sent Mrs H and FICL a provisional decision explaining I planned to uphold the complaint. 
I said Id consider anything else Mrs H or FICL  wanted to give me by 8 May 2019. Ive 
received nothing new from FICL or Mrs H.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Hs complaint  because  I dont  think FICL gave her clear  enough 
information about the policy. I say this because I dont think FICL gave Mrs H clear enough 
information about the policy costs.  For example Ive nothing to make  me think  FICL  told Mrs 
H the PPI premium would  be added to her card balance and could  attract interest. And Ive 
nothing to make me think FICL told Mrs H shed have to continue  paying the PPI premium 
during a claim.
I think this would have  mattered to Mrs H because at the time of the sale she was entitled to 
sick pay from her employer of six months full pay. So she couldve met the card payments 
for a while without the PPI. I say this taking  into account that Mrs Hs questionnaire told us 
she was entitled  to six months or more pay from her employer.  Also shes said:  I did not 
require the cover as my employer covered my pay for six months  should  I have  fallen sick.
I dont think Mrs H would have wanted to take the policy  if she had better understood  its cost 
and limited benefit. Taking everything  into account, I dont think  Mrs H wouldve bought the 
policy if FICL had given her enough information about it. So I think she has lost out because  
of what FICL did wrong.
The PPI was added when Mrs H applied for her card in a shop. If Mrs H wanted PPI she 
could indicate  this in a separate  part of her card application form. Mrs H has told us the shop 
assistant automatically completed the box and then crossed  it out after Mrs H said she 
didnt require the cover because  of the work sick pay she had. Mrs H has said:  It may have 
been a long time ago but I can remember the conversation, and the fact she crossed it out." 
Shes said she thinks she could find the original form if FICL doesnt have it.
Ive thought about this carefully.  The sale was around fifteen years ago. So I wouldnt expect 
Mrs H to recall  the details vividly. With this in mind  what  Mrs H has said isnt enough on its 
own to make me think things happened in the way she remembers.  But Ive also looked at 
the copy of Mrs Hs card application  form FICL has given us. There isnt a PPI box on it that 
someone else couldve filled in for Mrs H  the PPI section needs the customers own 
signature if the PPI is wanted. And Mrs Hs signature is in that box on her form. So I think  
Ref: DRN46216962Mrs H did sign for the cover. But I can also see that the signature has been  crossed  out. So 
it isnt clear that Mrs H actually wanted the cover.
Taking into account what Mrs H has said about her agreement  for the cover having been 
crossed out at the time after shed  decided she didnt want it, what I have on balance  makes 
me think the PPI was added to Mrs Hs account without her really wanting  it. So this is 
another reason why Ive decided to uphold her complaint.
putting things right
I understand Mrs Hs card account is closed.
FICL should put Mrs H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs H would  have  owed  when she closed her card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs H owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the compensation amount.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs H would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until the refund is paid. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs H would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs H 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs H paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs H 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs H what its done to work  out A, B and C.
FICL can deduct from the redress shown any commission redress repaid to Mrs H by the 
lender if the commission  redress relates  to this PPI sale.
 FICL has to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs H can reclaim the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Ref: DRN46216963Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4621696