K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Vanquis  Bank  Limited  didnt carry  out proper affordability checks  
before it approved her application for a credit  card. Shes been assisted in bringing  her 
complaint by her father, Mr L.
background
In or about November  2014 Mrs M applied online for a credit  card with Vanquis. She had 
only recently been discharged from bankruptcy, although Vanquis  wasnt involved in that and 
wasnt listed as a creditor. Following  a brief telephone call with Vanquis, during which Mrs 
Ms own income, household income and outgoings  were discussed, she was given a credit  
card with a credit limit of £500. That credit  limit was increased to £1,000  in April 2015, 
£2,000 in September 2015  and £3,000 in February  2016. 
Until 2016 the credit card account was operated within its spending  limits, and payments 
were made on time, usually for significantly more  than the minimum balance. But Mrs M then 
began to find things  difficult, and from September  2016  Vanquis  froze  the account, 
suspending interest  and charges. 
Mrs M has provided Vanquis and this service with evidence that she suffers  from mental  
health conditions  which can lead to excessive spending and affect  her ability  to make  
rational decisions.  
Mrs M and Mr L say that Vanquis  shouldnt have agreed to let her have a credit  card,  given 
in particular that she had only recently  been discharged from bankruptcy.  Vanquis didnt 
agree. It said it had properly assessed  her ability to repay debt and that it operates a low 
and grow model  providing  customers with a low credit limit and only increasing  it when  
they have shown they can manage the account well. That, Vanquis says, is what happened 
with Mrs M. Vanquis also says it wasnt told about Mrs Ms mental  health  issues until she 
started having difficulty making repayments.  Mrs M referred the matter  to this service.  
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint, but took the view that Vanquis had treated 
Mrs M fairly.  He didnt believe it would be fair to require Vanquis to write  off the debt, as Mrs 
M and Mr L had asked. They didnt agree with the adjudicators conclusions, and so the case  
has been passed to me to review  as the final stage in our consideration of it.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the adjudicator did  in the sense that I shant  be requiring 
Vanquis to write off the debt. 
Lenders, including credit card providers such as Vanquis, are under a duty,  before agreeing 
to lending, to assess the ability of the borrower  to repay any money they borrow. That 
applied here not only to the original decision to let Mrs M have  a credit card, but also to 
Vanquiss subsequent decisions to increase her credit  limit. In this respect, I note that 
Vanquis increased Mrs Ms credit  limit from £500  to £3,000 (a six-fold  increase) in just 15 
months; it doesnt appear though that her financial circumstances, or those of the household, 
had changed in that time. It appears that the final increase  from £2,000  to £3,000  in 
February 2016  triggered the difficulties  that Mrs M now faces. 
Ref: DRN46165792I understand Vanquiss argument that its business  model allows it to give low credit limits 
and gradually  increase  them if a customer is managing the account well. And it does appear 
that Mrs M did manage her account  well for a year or so. But the effect of that here seems to 
have been that Mrs Ms credit limit was increased up to the point where  she could no longer 
manage things, not to the point where  she could. I think  its notable  that, from early 2016, 
she began  to use the credit card to make regular cash  withdrawals  often  a sign of financial 
difficulty. 
So, whilst Im satisfied that a credit limit of £500  was affordable  for Mrs M, and that she 
appears to have managed the first two increases, borrowing of £3,000 was much  more 
difficult. 
I turn then to what Mrs M and Mr L have said about  her mental  health.  They  have, helpfully, 
provided medical evidence indicating that she might have difficulty  making  rational  decisions 
and might over-spend.  But, as the adjudicator noted, theres nothing to show  that Vanquis 
knew about any of this until 2016. Its not of course  for me to judge  Mrs Ms spending habits, 
but the way she used  her credit card doesnt  obviously suggest anything other than normal 
spending  on food, clothes, fuel and household items. So I dont believe I can fairly criticise 
Vanquis for not spotting any problem.
I should make clear of course that a mental health condition is not, of itself, a reason to 
refuse to provide  credit. Indeed, had Vanquis  known about  Mrs Ms condition in 2014 and 
refused her application  on that basis, it might have  been open  to accusations of unfair 
discrimination.    
I need to consider therefore what,  if anything,  Vanquis should do now. As Ive indicated,  I 
believe Vanquis was entitled to take the view in November 2014 that Mrs M could afford a 
£500 credit  limit, although I have some reservations  in particular about the credit limit 
increase to £3,000. That said, I note that Vanquis has taken steps to help Mrs M, by 
suspending interest  and charges and freezing  the account. Its done that because Mrs M had 
a repayment option plan in place (she paid a monthly fee and in return  Vanquis agreed it 
would freeze  interest and charges in circumstances such as these). Vanquis should  in any 
event treat cases of financial  difficulty in a positive and sympathetic manner, so this is the 
type of action I would expect  it to take, whether or not Mrs M had taken out that plan. I stress  
though that I havent considered the repayment option plan here. 
Nevertheless, Mrs M has of course had the benefit of the money shes  spent on the credit 
card. To write off the balance, as she and Mr L have suggested should happen, would have 
the effect of making Vanquis pay for the goods  and services shes used. I dont believe that 
would be fair in the circumstances  of this case. 
Overall, I share the adjudicators view that the action Vanquis has taken  by suspending 
interest and charges is sufficient at present. I would however remind Vanquis  of its ongoing 
duty to act in a positive and sympathetic manner towards Mrs M and would encourage both 
sides here to work towards a mutually  satisfactory  payment arrangement. If thats not 
possible, Mrs M may be able to bring  a new complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Vanquis Bank  Limited to do any more to resolve  Mrs 
Ms complaint that it didnt properly assess affordability of its lending to her. Under the rules  
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject  my 
decision before  28 July 2019.
Ref: DRN46165793Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4616579