K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 2001. Miss H says West Bromwich Building Society  (West Brom) mis-sold her 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, West Brom had to make it clear  to Miss H that she had a choice about 
it.
West Brom  has sent us a copy  of Miss Hs application form for the mortgage. This included a 
section on PPI, with a box to be ticked if she wanted to take it out. And there  is a tick in the 
box. West Brom has also sent us a copy of a separate PPI application form, signed  by 
Miss H.
Based on this, I think West Brom did make it clear to Miss H that she had a choice about  the 
PPI. And that Miss H chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
Miss H has said she only took the PPI because it was free for twelve  months,  and she didnt 
realise she would be paying for it after that.
West Brom  has sent us a copy  of the mortgage offer letter,  which gives  the monthly cost of 
the policy and says that this will be paid by West Brom for the first twelve  months.  And it 
says that at the end of this free period West Brom will write  to Miss H to confirm  the increase 
to her monthly repayment and that Miss H can cancel  the cover  at any time.  West Brom has 
also sent us a copy of the letter sent to Mrs H in 2002,  confirming  the free period has ended  
and what her new monthly repayment would be.
So I think West Brom did make it clear to Miss H that the PPI would continue  after the first 
twelve months and that she would be paying for it from then on.
West Brom  says it recommended the PPI to Miss H, so it had to check that it was right for 
her. And, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example, she doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for significantly longer than shes  told us she 
wouldve been entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant she didnt need to rely on her 
savings to make her mortgage repayments  if she wasnt  earning.
Miss H has said she had other insurance policies in place, so she didnt need the PPI. But 
the other policies shes mentioned were life cover and critical illness cover,  which protect 
against different  risks to PPI. So they wouldnt have stopped the PPI being right for her.
Ref: DRN45938662Miss H has also said she was self-employed  when she re-mortgaged  in 2006 so couldnt 
have claimed for redundancy. But the policy could still have covered her if she had to stop 
her self-employed business, as well as for accident  and sickness. And, in any event, West 
Brom only had to check that the policy was right for her at the time of the sale in 2001. It 
appears that the existing PPI policy just continued  when  Miss H re-mortgaged  in 2006 so 
there was no further sale of PPI. And it was Miss Hs responsibility  to make sure the PPI 
continued to be right for her after the initial sale.
As well as checking it was right for her at the sale in 2001, West Brom  had to give Miss H 
clear information about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave her wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment,  and Miss Hs property 
couldve been at risk if shed failed to make her repayments. So I think she couldve found 
the protection the policy offered appealing. And, for the same  reasons I think it was right for 
her, it seems  like it would have been useful for her if something  went  wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Miss H off 
taking it out.
Which means West Brom doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But West Brom will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss H because:
West Brom got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss H about that. Because  West Brom didnt tell 
Miss H, that was unfair.
To put that right, West Brom  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Miss H has also said she asked to cancel the PPI but West Brom didnt cancel it for some 
time. But the initial emails  she has sent us just say she thinks  the PPI was mis-sold, they 
dont ask to cancel the policy. And not all customers want their PPI policy cancelled when 
they make  a mis-sale complaint. So I dont think West Brom acted unreasonably in not 
assuming she wanted to cancel the policy.
The emails  show West Brom did then cancel the policy after Miss H said she wanted it 
cancelled. So I dont  think West Brom should have  to refund Miss H any of the PPI 
premiums as a result  of this.
what the business needs  to do
West Brom  has to pay back to Miss H any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. West Brom should also pay back  to Miss H any extra interest  
she paid because of that.
West Brom  should pay back to Miss H the extra she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. West Brom should 
also pay Miss H 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss H can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN45938663my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so West Bromwich  Building Society doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But West Bromwich Building Society does  have to pay back  to Miss H any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4593866