K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Coventry  Building  Society (CBS) mis-sold  them  a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2001.
Background
In 2001 Mr and Mrs C applied for a mortgage from CBS at the same  time they were sold a 
PPI policy. The policy cost £12.48 per month. The policy covered Mr C only against  being 
unable to work due to unemployment. In the event of a successful claim the policy would 
have paid a monthly  benefit of £460  for up to 12 months.
In 2008 Mr and Mrs C took out a further  advance on their mortgage. At the same time the 
policy was changed  to cover Mr C against  being  unable to work  due to an accident  or 
sickness as well as unemployment. The level of cover was also increased to £750  and the 
premium increased to £25.76 per month.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs C complained to CBS about  the sale of the policy.
CBS replied that in 2001 the policy should have been set up to cover the highest earner 
where it was taken to cover only one of two joint mortgage holders. Because  it couldnt show 
that Mr C was the higher earner in 2001 it agreed  to repay all the premiums  Mr and Mrs C 
paid between 2001 and 2008.  It also offered  to pay compensatory  interest  on those 
premiums. In total CBS offered Mr and Mrs C £1,869.55.
But CBS said that after the policy changed in 2008  it had evidence  that Mr C was the higher 
earner so it would not refund the premiums from that point on.
Unhappy with CBSs  offer,  Mr and Mrs C asked  this service to step in. Our adjudicator 
thought the complaint should  be upheld and asked CBS to refund all the premiums plus 
interest including premiums paid after 2008.
CBS didnt agree with the adjudicators findings,  so the complaint  was passed to me.
In April 2020 I issued  my provisional  findings on this complaint and invited both parties  to 
comment and send  me any additional evidence  they wanted me to think  about.  A copy  of my 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was not intending  to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, my 
main reasons were:
I thought that such were  the changes made to the policy in 2008 that there were in fact two 
separate sales, one in 2001 and another in 2008.
I thought CBSs offer to refund the premiums plus compensatory interest from 2001 to 2008  
was fair and had been calculated in the way Id expect.
I looked at the changes  that were made in 2008 to the policy. I thought  it most  likely 
Mr and Mrs C were aware in 2008 that they didnt  have to take PPI to get the mortgage  
advance and they chose to make  the amendments they did. The policy  was right for Mr C 
after 2008  and even if CBS had given  Mr and Mrs C all the clear information it should  have, I 
think they still would have gone  ahead  with the policy.  
Ref: DRN49051192So, I said in my provisional findings that I didnt intend to make any further award  against  
CBS.
Both parties  have responded  to my provisional  findings.
CBS has told us it has nothing further  to add.
Mr and Mrs C have said they were  led to believe they had to take the policy in order to 
obtain the mortgage in 2001 and felt they had to keep it in place in 2008 in order  to ensure 
the further advance was approved.
My findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs C have said. But the original mortgage offer in 
2001 was dated before Mr and Mrs C completed  the PPI application. So it looks  like 
Mr and Mrs C would  have been aware the mortgage application had been approved  before  
they agreed to the PPI policy. I do accept it is possible things happened  as they say, but 
based on the evidence Ive seen  I think it is most  likely Mr and Mrs C would have been 
aware the policy was optional,  and it wasnt necessary to take out PPI in order  to obtain the 
mortgage. It follows that when Mr and Mrs C applied for the further advance in 2008  they 
would likely  have been aware they didnt have to continue with a PPI policy.
Mr and Mrs C have also pointed to their employers sick pay scheme to show  they didnt 
require a PPI policy.  But the policy covered Mr C only and Mr Cs employer only guaranteed 
sick pay for 15 days. After  that it was at the company directors discretion, so not 
guaranteed. So I do think Mr C had a need for the cover provided  by the policy.
In summary  I think CBSs offer to refund the PPI premiums plus interest from March 2001  
until November 2008 is fair and has been  calculated the way Id expect.
I think it is most likely  Mr and Mrs C were aware in 2008 that they didnt have to take PPI to 
get the further advance and they chose to make the amendments they did. The policy  was 
right for Mr C in 2008 and even if CBS had given  Mr and Mrs C all the clear information it 
should have, I think they still would have  gone  ahead with the policy. 
Ref: DRN49051193My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional 
decision, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  and I dont make any further award 
against Coventry Building Society. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN49051194copy of provisional decision
Complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Coventry Building Society (CBS)  mis-sold  them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in 2001.
Background
In 2001 Mr and Mrs C applied for a mortgage from CBS at the same time they were  sold a PPI policy. 
The policy cost £12.48 per month. The policy  covered  Mr C only against  being unable to work due to 
unemployment. In the event of a successful claim  the policy would have paid a monthly  benefit of 
£460 for up to 12 months.
In 2008 Mr and Mrs C took out a further advance on their mortgage. At the same time the policy  was 
changed to cover Mr C against being unable to work due to an accident  or sickness  as well as 
unemployment. The level of cover was also increased to £750 and the premium increased to £25.76 
per month.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs C complained  to CBS about the sale of the policy.
CBS replied that in 2001 the policy should have been set up to cover the highest earner where  it was 
taken to cover only one of two joint mortgage holders.  Because it couldnt  show that Mr C was the 
higher earner  in 2001 it agreed to repay all the premiums Mr and Mrs C paid between 2001 and 2008. 
It also offered to pay compensatory interest on those premiums. In total CBS offered Mr and Mrs C 
£1,869.55.
But CBS said that after the policy changed in 2008 it had evidence that Mr C was the higher earner so 
it would not refund  the premiums from that point on.
Unhappy with CBSs offer, Mr and Mrs C asked this service  to step in. Our adjudicator  thought  the 
complaint should be upheld and asked CBS to refund all the premiums plus interest including 
premiums paid after 2008.
CBS didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Where there is limited information, I will make my decision based on whats more likely  to have 
happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties  have told me and what  we 
know about these types of sale.
I am not intending to uphold this complaint and I will explain why.
2001 sale
I have not looked in detail  at the sale in 2001. That is because CBS has already agreed to pay back  
all the premiums from March  2001  when the policy came into force until November 2008 when the 
policy was changed. CBS has also agreed to add compensatory interest to the premiums calculated 
at 8% simple.  This is what Id expect CBS to do if I found the policy to have been mis-sold. So I think  
the offer of compensation covering March 2001 to November 2008 is fair.
Ref: DRN49051195However, I do note that the mortgage offer was issued on 12 February  2001 and states that no PPI 
had been taken. CBS has shown us a copy of the PPI application which  has been signed  by Mr and 
Mrs C and is dated 16 February  2001. So, it looks to me that the offer of a mortgage was made before  
Mr and Mrs C applied for the PPI. So, Mr and Mrs C would have been aware the policy was optional,  
and it wasnt necessary to take out PPI in order to obtain the mortgage. 
2008 sale
The crux of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs C feel CBS should also refund all the premiums they 
paid after 2008.
Ive thought about this. The policy was amended significantly in 2008. The level of benefit  was 
increased, the cover  amended from unemployment only to accident, sickness and unemployment, the 
premium increased  and an amendment form completed. In my view such were the changes to the 
cover that it was, in effect a new sale. So, Ive looked to see if the PPI was mis-sold  in 2008. I dont 
think it was.
I think  it is likely Mr and Mrs C were aware they could  have the further advance  without amending  
their existing policy or taking out further cover. I say this as they applied for PPI in 2001 after CBS had 
offered them a mortgage. In addition CBS has shown us copies of communication with the policy 
insurer which  suggest Mr and Mrs C had requested the changes to the policy.
It isnt clear if Mr and Mrs C received advice  on the policy in 2008. If they did then CBS had a duty to 
make sure the policy was right for them. Ive looked at their circumstances at the time and I think it 
was right for them.
The policy covered Mr C only.  He was eligible for the policy so he could have made a claim if hed 
needed to.
Mr Cs employer only guaranteed sick pay for 15 days. After that it was at the company  directors 
discretion, so not guaranteed. The PPI policy  could  have paid a monthly  benefit of £750 for up to 12 
months per claim. So, I think Mr C would  have found it useful if he couldnt work  due to ill-health, 
particularly if he was off work for a lengthy period.
It would also pay the monthly benefit if Mr C lost his job, meaning  he could use any redundancy  pay 
for other  living costs.
Mr and Mrs C had some  savings, but they chose to keep those savings rather  than take a smaller 
mortgage. So, I think  any savings they had were important  to them.  And the PPI policy would mean  
Mr and Mrs C didnt need  to use their savings to pay the mortgage if Mr C couldnt work.
The policy did contain an exclusion for pre-existing  medical conditions.  But Mr C has confirmed that 
he had no existing medical conditions  in 2008 other than an allergy. Bearing  in mind  Mr and Mrs C 
were substantially  increasing their mortgage  I dont  think this exclusion made  the policy unsuitable for 
him.
Its possible that CBS didnt give all the information it should have  done. But thats not enough  to 
uphold this complaint. I next need to decide  whether or not Mr and Mrs C would  have changed their 
mind about  buying the policy if they been given  better or clearer information. I cant  say they would 
have done. The policy  was right for Mr C, and he seems to have had a need for the cover. And Ive 
not seen any evidence the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs C so any better information about 
the premiums is unlikely  to have put them off.
Summary
In summary I think  CBSs  offer to refund the PPI premiums plus interest from March 2001 until 
November 2008 is fair and has been calculated the way Id expect.
Ref: DRN49051196Ive treated the amendments made in 2008 as a new sale.
I think  it is most likely  Mr and Mrs C were aware in 2008 that they didnt have to take PPI to get the 
mortgage advance and they chose to make the amendments they did. The policy was right for Mr C in 
2008 and even if CBS had given Mr and Mrs C all the clear information  it should have,  I think they still 
would have gone ahead with the policy. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
not intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  and Im not intending to make any further award 
against Coventry Building Society.  
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4905119