K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr O complain about their reviewable whole of life policy administered by ReAssure 
Limited. They are unhappy  that theyve been  told the sum assured will decrease unless they 
increase their monthly premiums.
background
Mrs and Mr O took out the policy in 1989,  the policy  provider was a business  who were  
subsequently taken over by ReAssure. The policy provided an initial sum assured of £36,385  
for a monthly premium of £15. 
The policy was reviewed  in 1999, 2004, 2009,  2014  and 2019. It passed the first four 
reviews but failed the 2019 review. This meant that in 2019  they were  told an increased 
premium was needed to maintain the sum assured.
Mrs and Mr O complained  to ReAssure who said they needed to redirect  their complaint to 
the independent financial adviser (IFA)  who had sold them  the policy.  This was because the 
IFA was responsible for ensuring the policy was suitable for their needs and circumstances 
at the time of the sale.
Mrs and Mr O referred their complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators.
The investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought ReAssure were entitled to review 
the policy in line with the policy terms. And he hadnt  seen anything  to suggest they had 
administered the policy incorrectly.
Mrs and Mr O didnt agree with his opinion. In summary, they said ReAssure had taken over 
the previous business with a view to cut policy benefits  and increase customers premiums. 
They had paid into the policy for 30 years  and expected to receive what the policy said.
As theres  been  no agreement the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
this complaint. I will now explain why.
Im not considering  the suitability of the policy for Mrs and Mr O, any complaints regarding  
the suitability would  have to made against the IFA who sold them  the policy.  Ive only 
considered if ReAssure have administered it correctly, in line with the terms and conditions. 
And having looked closely at the documentation, Ive seen  nothing  that suggests theyve 
made an error in their administration.
Ive noted Mrs and Mr Os concerns about the potential reduction in the sum assured or 
increase in premiums  if they want to maintain the current  sum assured. But the terms of the 
policy say that the policy  will be reviewed on its tenth anniversary and every  five years after 
that. And if its considered that the premiums arent enough to support the charges  until the 
next review, then the premiums will be increased  or the level of cover  reduced.
Ref: DRN49898212So, Im satisfied the reviewable nature  of the policy was made clear to Mrs and Mr O in the 
paperwork they were  given when they took out the policy. I havent  seen anything to suggest  
the sum assured and premium  would be fixed for the entirety of the policy.
Generally, with these  types of policies, the cost of life cover  becomes  increasingly expensive 
over time. This is because the cost of life cover will increase with the ages of the 
policyholders. And the ability of the premiums to support  this increasing cost is dependent on 
the performance of the underlying investments. So its not unusual for some increase to be 
required at the point of a review, as the initial premium is only guaranteed up until the point 
of the first review.
When a review of this type of policy takes  place  the policy  provider will work out a premium  
based on several factors. These include  the amount already held in the policys  investment 
element, likely future investment returns,  and the likely future  cost of life cover. This premium 
amount will then be guaranteed until the next review when the policy  is re-assessed.
From everything Ive seen, Im satisfied Reassure have administered the policy correctly and 
in line with its terms and conditions. Theyve  reviewed the policy  at the correct  times and 
communicated the outcome  of each review. The outcome  of the last review was that the 
premiums that were being paid could not maintain  the sum assured of £36,385.  But this 
doesnt mean that the policy wasnt being administered correctly.
Whilst I can understand Mrs and Mr Os disappointment with the increased costs, Im not 
persuaded ReAssure have  acted  incorrectly or unreasonably  in their administration of the 
policy. This means I dont  consider they need  to do anything  further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr O to accept or reject my 
decision before  23 February 2020.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4989821