K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection policy 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out PPI on the phone in 2003  to protect their mortgage repayments. The 
policy covered them  for accident, sickness and unemployment. They  paid a monthly  amount 
for it.
The adjudicator didnt recommend Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs D disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D say they were advised the cover was free so they took it. Nationwide  has 
explained their policy was free for the first 12 months. I cant know how this was presented  
on the call. So Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Ds comments  and looked at the 
available paperwork from the sale. On their mortgage application  they indicated  they wanted  
the cover, selecting how they wanted the benefit split between  them  and the level of cover 
they wanted. On their mortgage offer it made clear they had selected PPI and said Your 
monthly premium would normally have been  £29.93.  However, your first twelve months  
premium will be free. You will be notified  of the monthly premiums  payable shortly before the 
free period  expires  .
So overall, I think Nationwide made  Mr and Mrs D aware that they had a choice about  
buying the PPI, that it was only free for the first year and they chose to take it. I can 
understand they might not remember this given how long ago the sale was. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI so it didnt have to check  if the policy was right for 
Mr and Mrs D. But it did have to make sure they got all the information  they needed to 
decide if the PPI was right for them.  
Its possible the information wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont  think  they 
wouldve been put off taking out the policy if they had received better information. I say this 
because:
Mr and Mrs D were eligible for the policy given their circumstances at the time and 
the policys terms and conditions.
Mr D has recently  said he had a PEMC  at the time of the sale. But from what hes 
told us I dont think its is something  he would have expected  to need to make  a 
related claim for. I say this as it was controlled by medication,  and whilst  it had 
Ref: DRN40848842caused him to take some  time off work, it was never for as long as the 30 day excess 
period on the policy. In addition his condition would only have been excluded for the 
first 12 months of the policy. So I dont think better  information  on the relevant 
exclusion would have  changed their decision. They  werent  affected  by any of the 
other conditions limiting the policys main benefits.  So overall I think it unlikely better 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations would have changed their 
decision to buy it. 
Mr and Mrs D were both entitled  to at least six months sick pay and had savings 
worth around six months salary, But the PPI would have paid out in addition to any 
work benefits and for up to 12 months.  It would have  allowed them to use any 
savings to cover other living  expenses  whilst  not working, or to protect them for their 
future needs. The PPI would have  paid out up to 12 months redundancy cover  in 
addition to any work benefits,  allowing  Mr and Mrs D to protect lump sum redundancy 
payments giving increased financial  stability at a difficult time. Given the 
consequences for Mr and Mrs D of defaulting on a large and long term debt secured 
against their home, I think the PPI would have  been useful for them if they were  sick 
or lost their job(s).
I dont know when  the cost was first made  clear  to Mr and Mrs D, but it was set out in 
their mortgage offer and the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable.  
And they could  cancel  it without further cost if at any stage they no longer wanted  it.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs D has lost out because of the problems with this sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4084884