K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited unreasonably declined a 
claim he made on his car hire excess insurance  policy. 
background
When Mr K hired a car from firm A in 2019  and had an accident in it, he thought hed be 
able to make  a successful  claim on his policy with Catlin. But it was rejected because  Catlin  
no longer covered any claim made  in relation  to car hire from firm A. Mr K said that wasnt 
made clear to him when he renewed the policy. Catlin disagreed. It said the renewal 
invitation and the policy documents set out an exclusion for claims about firm As hire cars. 
As Mr K didnt accept  what  Catlin said, one of our investigators considered his complaint. He 
thought Catlin had acted reasonably. He understood why Mr K expected his claim to be 
covered, as hed made claims in relation to firm As hire cars on Catlins  previous policy. But 
the investigator was satisfied that Catlin had set out the exclusion in the renewal invitation  
and in the documents sent to Mr K after renewal. 
Mr K said the exclusion was hidden within a lot of other information,  so it was easy  to miss. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
The renewal  invitation  sent to Mr K in November 2018 advised him to check  that the cover 
on offer was still suitable for his needs.  A one page renewal summary was provided  that set 
out the cover. Halfway down the page  were several  very short  declarations. A note at the 
side of them said that if the policy holder could no longer agree to one or more of the 
declarations, he or she should contact Catlin. The second declaration in the list said
You acknowledge no cover is provided  for Car Rental Agreements  with (firm A). 
Mr K received the renewal documents and had several weeks to read them before he 
renewed the policy in December  2018. I dont think its reasonable for him to say the 
exclusion for claims against firm As car was hidden  in the renewal documents. Although  its 
clear he didnt notice  it, I think it was for Mr K to ensure that the policy still met his needs.  
After the renewal Mr K was sent the policy documents.  The exclusion was set out on page 9 
of the policy  - where I think  it could easily have been missed.  But Catlin also provided a short  
policy summary. The exclusion  was set out on the first page of that document, near the top 
of the page, under what is not covered . It was also set out in the certificate of insurance.
I think Catlin gave Mr K sufficient notice of the exclusion for claims made  in connection with 
firm As hire cars, before  the renewal and immediately after it. I understand why Mr K may 
have assumed that claims against firm A would still be covered, as it seems they had been 
previously. But Catlin advised Mr K to check that the policy  was still suitable  for him at 
renewal. And he was asked to read the policy documents  carefully. So I dont  think it was 
Catlins fault that Mr K found that he wasnt covered when he made a claim against  firm A. 
Ref: DRN49479162I dont think Catlin acted  unreasonably in declining  Mr Ks claim, as it had advised him 
properly of the exclusion, so I cant uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4947916