K821x#15complaint
Miss P says CashEuroNet  UK LLC (trading as Pounds to Pocket)  irresponsibly lent to her 
and didnt carry out proper affordability  checks.  
background
Miss P took 1 loan from Pounds to Pocket  in December 2017. Miss P then refinanced  her fist 
loan and borrowed an additional £1,300  in June 2018. Based on the statement of account 
provided to me, it seems that Miss P has had some problems repaying  her final loan,  and an 
outstanding balance remains. 
A summary  of Miss Ps borrowing, based on the information given  to us by Pounds  to Pocket 
can be found below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived dateactual  
repayment 
datelargest 
monthly 
repaymentnumber of 
instalments
1 £300.00 17/12/2017 £44.75 12
1a £1,300.00 27/06/2018outstanding£216.80 12
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Pounds to Pocket  should have given  Miss P loan 1a 
because, had it carried out a proportionate  check at the time it is likely Pounds  to Pocket 
wouldve become  aware  of a number of other outstanding short  term loans. This indicated  to 
the adjudicator  that this loan was not sustainable for Miss P. 
Miss P agreed with the adjudicators findings but she has provided comments and further  
information about her wider financial  situation  at the time, as well as to date. She said that, 
based on her current financial position, she wouldnt be able to make  any repayments to 
Pounds to Pocket,  even if these were done via a repayment plan. 
Pounds to Pocket didnt agree with the adjudicators findings, making a number  of points, 
including:
the checks carried out where proportionate
there was no indication, from Miss Ps borrowing history that suggested she couldnt  
afford further borrowing (loan 1a)
Miss P had a sound  repayment history so therefore no indication  of any financial 
difficulties.  
These points didnt change the adjudicators mind. As no agreement  could be reached, the 
case has been passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN44594772Pounds to Pocket needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  in order to figure 
out whether Miss P could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this 
in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough  checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Pounds  to Pocket should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
So Pounds to Pocket was required to establish whether Miss P could sustainably repay her 
loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
basis. The loan payments being  affordable on this basis might  be an indication Miss P could 
sustainably make her repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ps complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, proportionate checks for loan 1a would most likely have shown 
that:
Miss P had a number  of other outstanding  short term payday and instalment loans 
which took up a significant portion of her declared  income. In these circumstances, 
there was a significant risk that Miss P wouldnt  have been able to repay  this loan 
without undue difficulty or without having to borrow further. So I dont think that 
Pounds to Pocket could reasonably have believed that Miss P would be able to make 
the contractual repayments.  
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 1a and Pounds to Pocket should put things right 
as detailed below.
putting things right  what Pounds to Pocket needs to do
Ref: DRN44594773It isnt entirely clear from the information  provided  as to whether Pounds  to Pocket has sold 
the outstanding balance  to a third party. If it has, then if it can, it should buy the loan back  
and then carry out the redress below.  If the debt isnt able to be bought back  then 
Pounds to Pocket will need to liaise with the third party  to achieve the results outlined  below.  
Pounds to Pocket should remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges in relation to 
loan 1a from the current outstanding balance,  meaning Miss P only has to repay the 
principal sum. Pounds to Pocket  then should  apply  any repayments already made 
towards this loan as if they were made towards the principal sum borrowed. If after 
doing this, Miss P has already paid enough for this loan to be fully repaid then any 
overpayment needs to be refunded, from the date of the over payment became due 
to the date of settlement. 8% simple interest per year should  also be added 
remove any negative information  about loan 1a from Miss Ps credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires CashEuroNet UK LLC to take off tax from this interest. 
CashEuroNet UK LLC must  give Miss P a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.
If after doing the above, Miss P still has an outstanding principal balance due for loan 1a, 
then Miss P and Pounds to Pocket  should  try and come  to a mutually agreeable repayment 
plan in order to repay  what  is owed. 
Im sorry  to hear about  Miss Ps current financial difficulties,  and I would remind Pounds to 
Pocket of its obligation to treat Miss P fairly  when dealing with her. Id also remind 
Pounds to Pocket that it should consider all appropriate  options when thinking about 
repayment of this loan. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Miss Ps complaint. 
CashEuroNet UK LLC should  put things right for Miss P as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October  2019.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4459477