K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that C, an appointed representative of Quilter  Mortgage Planning 
Limited, recommended an unsuitable  mortgage product. They want the early repayment 
charge (ERC) they paid exit the original  mortgage  to be paid by Quilter.
background
Mr and Mrs F took advice from C, an appointed representative of Quilter,  a mortgage  broker.  
They wanted  to borrow more money  they had one property  and wanted  to buy a new 
residential property.  Mr and Mrs F said that C recommended that they remortgaged their 
existing property with lender A, as opposed  to lender B, in order  to raise  money  to use as a 
deposit to buy a home. This property was rented out to tenants, but the existing  mortgage  
was a residential one with lender  B. But Mr and Mrs F said that Cs advice caused them to 
pay an ERC when the original mortgage was repaid, and so was unsuitable to meet their 
needs. They  thought that the original mortgage shouldve just been transferred (ported)  to 
the new property.
Mr and Mrs F complained to Quilter. It said that C had tried to increase the mortgage on the 
original property, but this wasnt  possible as it was a residential mortgage and Mr and Mrs F 
didnt live there. Quilter pointed out that C was also dealing with Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage 
application to buy a new residential property  and he had correctly advised  that what was 
needed was a buy to let mortgage for the original property, whose value  was less than 
expected. It noted  that the first planned residential property purchase fell through due to 
delays in Mr F proving  his income and valuation  issues, and so it wasnt possible  to buy a 
new residential property  at the same time as remortgaging the buy to let property.
Quilter said that the buy to let mortgage product was put in place in June 2017 with lender A, 
while the residential mortgage product for the new property was put in place in August 2017 
with lender B. Quilter explained that it wasnt possible to port the original residential 
mortgage from the rented property to the new property as it was repaid in June 2017. And it 
pointed out that Mr and Mrs F had taken out a fixed interest product with lender A for the 
rented property before meeting C, which meant  if the mortgage was repaid early, the ERC 
would be due, which was known to Mr and Mrs F. It didnt uphold  the complaint.
Mr and Mrs F complained to us. They sent evidence that C had told them that the policy of 
lender B was only to allow a port if the original property was being sold, not remortgaged.  
The investigators view was that Quilter wasnt at fault. She noted that the original mortgage  
with lender B was much smaller than the new mortgage taken out to buy the new residential 
property, and the loan to value ratio (LTV) of the new mortgage was 90%. But the 
investigator said that lender B had told C that it wasnt possible to port the original mortgage 
product as the property wasnt being sold  shed heard a call recording where this was 
confirmed. She noted that it was a complex transaction  but thought C gave suitable advice 
given the information he was given  by lender B.
Mrs F disagreed. She said that lender B said it was possible to port the original mortgage 
product and C was at fault. Mrs F didnt think  that it was relevant that the first property wasnt 
being sold.
Ref: DRN45047052my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the evidence available to me, C didnt apply  for the original mortgage product to be 
ported to the new residential property. C says this is because he understood from talking to 
lender Bs staff, the application would be unsuccessful. This was because the first property 
wasnt going to be sold. This advice is confirmed  as having been given in a call that Ive 
listened to between the member of staff involved from lender B and C. Its fair and 
reasonable to rely on information  given  by the lender.
Ive also looked  at the lending policies of lender B at the time. The position set out there is 
more complex, but in essence it doesnt  appear that an application to port wouldve 
succeeded. This is because the LTV for the new property mortgage was 90%. The policy  
said if above a particular percentage (which I wont state here as it may be confidential) of 
LTV, if the original property wasnt being  sold, a porting application  would be declined. 
Mr and Mrs Fs LTV for the new mortgage was significantly above  this threshold.  In the 
circumstances, I think  it was fair and reasonable for C not to have advised Mr and Mrs F to 
try to port the original  product. I dont think the advice given was unsuitable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision 
before 4 April 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4504705