K821x#15complaint
Mr L is unhappy with his home insurer  U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) because it promised to 
do some  repairs in relation to the subsidence  claim hed made  and then revoked the offer.
background
Mr L noticed damage to his home  and made a claim to UKI. In 2010 UKIs expert at that time 
accepted that the property was suffering from subsidence and recommended  a period of 
monitoring. It was felt nearby trees, not all of which were owned by Mr L, were  causing the 
problem. But the expert also noted  that the first floor was dropping.  He felt this was unrelated  
to the subsidence movement and was being  caused  by masonry  walls  having been built on 
to the first floor without proper support.
Into 2015 UKIs experts involved at that time started to discuss  what  repairs were needed at 
the property. During an on-site meeting the problem with the first floor was discussed. The 
contract manager at that time felt the issue could be resolved  fairly  simply at little cost and, 
on that basis, was prepared to include that resolution work into the subsidence repair 
scheme. Mr L wasnt told, at that time, that this was the basis  for the work. He understood all 
the work  was being done due to the subsidence.
A schedule  of work was produced in August 2015 which  included  removal  of a masonry  wall 
and replacement of it with a stud partition wall, and placement  of noggins in the floor to level 
it. The contractors then continued to discuss the repair plan, consideration was given to 
putting some  timber beams  in place and then,  to avoid dismantling the existing masonry 
walls, the implementation  of a steel beam system  to support the floor. There were a number 
of visits made to Mr Ls home to consider the repairs. There was some delay during this time 
whilst the design  for the beams was considered.  A design was completed and accepted  as 
being reasonable by UKI in January  2017.  But the design, at that point, wasnt costed.  When 
the costed version  was produced UKI noted  that what had initially been  felt to be a simple  
and low cost job had spiralled into something  complex and costly. 
UKIs engineer visited Mr Ls home in order to assure himself the first-floor damage wasnt 
related to the subsidence. Having done that, and during that same visit, he told Mr L that the 
work to resolve the first floor was to be removed from the repair scheme;  UKI would not be 
putting steel beams in place  or carrying out any other work  to resolve the problem with the 
first floor. Mr L didnt  realise that he was being told that the first-floor work was unrelated  to 
the subsidence damage. He believed a cost cutting exercise was under  way. 
UKI arranged for an independent engineering company to assess  the damage at Mr Ls 
home. It found that there  was subsidence  damage and a separate  problem with the first 
floor. It found the floor structure was sound but that it tilted.  But it felt the floor would continue  
to perform over the coming years quite  adequately  despite its tilt. In its view the installation  
of a support  system wasnt necessary.
The independent engineers report was shared  with Mr L. However, around that same time 
UKI also issued a further schedule of works to Mr L which still included the steel  work. UKI 
said this schedule was correct. Mr L asked UKI why work to one of the bedrooms wasnt 
included. UKI then issued a further  schedule to Mr L in November 2017 which  it said was its 
final and correct schedule. This schedule also included the steel work. UKI then realised that 
although it had intended to send  an amended  schedule to Mr L it hadnt done that. It sent a 
schedule with all of the steel work  removed.
Ref: DRN44717292Mr L was frustrated, unhappy and confused. UKI investigated his complaint. It accepted it 
had never  made it clear  to Mr L that it was to carry out work to the first floor on the basis  of a 
goodwill gesture. And that its consideration of the steel beam work had caused delays. 
However, it said it remained  of the view that the first-floor problem wasnt  associated with the 
subsidence and it had been right to remove the work necessary for resolving it from the 
schedule. It said it would  pay Mr L £2,500 compensation. Mr L complained to this service.  
Our investigator felt that UKI had reached a reasonable conclusion  regarding the first floor 
issue not being related to the subsidence.  So he didnt think he could make  it put the 
removed work back into the schedule. But he felt UKI had acted unfairly  by not telling Mr L 
initially that the work was being taken  on as a goodwill gesture which could be revoked at 
any time. He felt it should pay Mr L a further  £400  compensation. 
UKI felt that a further £400 was excessive. Mr L felt that compensation wasnt enough 
rather that the repairs should be carried out as promised. He argued that the first floor must 
be suffering from subsidence  damage, and that the independent engineers  report was 
unclear and flawed.  He felt that everyone  had been  working on the basis  of the work being  
included and accepted as part of the subsidence work. Particularly he felt that when there 
were problems with designing  the scheme, if this had really all been based on a goodwill 
gesture, the work would have been abandoned  then.
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made. I didnt feel the complaint should 
be upheld and I explained why in a provisional decision. But I did ask UKI to consider 
sharing the design document that had been  prepared for the steelwork.  The parties 
responded and Im now issuing my final decision.  In my provisional findings I said:
I have every sympathy for Mr L in this situation. I think UKI set out with best intentions to 
assist him. But it didnt make that clear and, as a result, Mr L has been severely let down. It 
doesnt surprise me that he is finding  it hard to accept that the repairs  arent covered. Whilst 
I regret to disappoint  him further, I can confirm that, in my view,  UKIs decision that the 
first-floor issue is unrelated to the subsidence damage, is fair and reasonable. Ill explain  
that. But Im also going to explain  why what I think UKI has done  to make up for the upset 
caused by its failure is sufficient  I dont think it would be fair to make it do the work  or pay 
any more compensation.  
Three experts have concluded that the problem with the first floor is unrelated to the 
subsidence. The independent engineers report isnt unclear in this respect. And it also 
explains that the way the floor has tilted isnt the way it would have done  if it had been  
caused by the subsidence. Whilst I understand how strongly Mr L feels that the first-floor 
issue must be related  to the subsidence, his view isnt persuasive in light of the expert 
considerations available. So the issue hasnt been  caused by subsidence or anything else 
covered on the policy. Therefore, UKI has no liability under the policy to carry out the work.
Just because a business promises to do something, doesnt mean  it has to follow through  
with that. Only if a formal  agreement or contract  for that work  was entered  into by both 
parties would  the work have to be completed. That didnt happen here. Mr L paid his policy  
excess but that was in respect of the subsidence  work. I know  he didnt  know or understand 
the difference at that time but that doesnt change the fact of the basis for that payment. And 
whilst UKI spent time designing the repair scheme for the beams, at no time did it start work 
to implement the system  into Mr Ls home.  So it cant fairly  be said that UKI entered  into any 
contract for carrying out this work whether  by Mr L providing consideration in the form of 
money or it doing  so by carrying out work.  
Ref: DRN44717293Im also mindful that the existing expert opinion is that the floor doesnt  have  to be 
supported. It isnt in a dangerous  state  and wont get markedly worse without supports. So 
UKIs offer to resolve the issue coupled with its later decision to revoke  that hasnt left Mr L 
in any worse position than he was before.
That leaves Mr L then in the position  of the steel work not being  covered by the policy  and it 
also not being part of any other contract  agreement. And nor have UKIs actions left Mr L in 
a worse position than he was before.  Unfortunately for Mr L that means there are no fair and 
reasonable grounds on which I can make UKI carry  out the work.
But I accept that UKIs  handling of this claim  particularly its promise  and much later 
revocation  have caused Mr L a lot of distress  and inconvenience. I can see though that 
UKI has realised and accepted this. Its rare that I see an insurer offer such  a large amount 
of compensation  in response to a complaint.  And in terms of the awards I generally make 
£2,500 is a large sum. Id usually only make an insurer pay this amount when, for example, a 
family have  been  out of their home for much longer than they should have been as a result 
of poor repairs. And that is then because of the significant and daily upset that kind of 
on-going disruption  brings. And because if the repairs/claim had been handled properly all of 
that upset would have been  avoided. Thats a very different sort of situation to the one in 
hand here. But I include it here to try and illustrate why £2,500 for upset that was caused 
since UKI first communicated its change of mind to Mr L in May 2017 and up until its 
complaint response  was issued in February  2018, alongside the inconvenience  Mr L was 
caused whilst the design schemes were considered, seems to me to be a fair and 
reasonable sum. Im not minded to think it should reasonably have  to pay more.  
I have asked UKI though if it would share the steel design scheme  with Mr L. Its 
considering that. If it does  share  that, if Mr L wants to have work carried  out to support the 
floor, he can use that scheme which should save him further  time and money. But Mr L 
might also like to note that the independent engineer felt the floor could be improved by 
removing some of the weight it is currently bearing. So Mr L, if he wants  to, may be able to 
resolve the tilting of the first floor himself. And the compensation UKI paid may go some 
way to helping him do that (if he wants to use the money for that purpose). I appreciate  that 
Mr L will be disappointed following my findings but I am satisfied that UKI has done all it 
fairly and reasonable needs  to do to make up for its failures.
In response UKI confirmed it was discussing with its contractor whether or not it would 
release the steelwork design. 
Mr L said whilst he had been  waiting  for his home to be repaired over many years, it was 
only latterly that the goodwill  gesture  argument  had been  raised. He said that the current 
scope for repair  doesnt match the subsidence damage identified  in the expert  report. And 
the expert report does  say the first-floor has been affected by subsidence.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note UKI is still discussing release of the design  with its contractor. If it is prepared to do 
that it can share that design with Mr L following my final decision. My decision doesnt hinge 
on that issue and as Im not making  any award  in this respect there is no need for me to 
Ref: DRN44717294hold my decision any longer (although I had hoped  UKI would have given an answer  one 
way or the other by now).
As I said provisionally, I accept that UKI didnt make its position on the steelwork clear to 
Mr L until recently. And I do understand why he has his doubts that the steelwork isnt 
necessary as part of the subsidence repairs. UKI, whilst I dont doubt it set out with good  
intentions, should have  been clearer about that from the start. But despite its failure to 
communicate on this issue  properly I am satisfied that the inclusion of the steelwork was 
always an added extra, as it was never  necessary to resolve the subsidence issue. 
Likewise, Im satisfied that there is a separate method of movement occurring at Mr Ls 
home which is being caused by excessive loading of the first-floor.
The points of the report Mr L has referred  to are in the reports discussion section. They  
arent the conclusions  of the report.  The conclusions can be found on page  5 and 6. 
Regarding cracking  the report concludes:
that all of the aforementioned cracks  in the walls are consistent with subsidence  movement 
and are of a similar recent appearance and severity.
UKIs scope  currently allows for redecoration. Depending on the nature of the cracks  that 
might be sufficient. But it may be that UKI should review its scope  often cracks will require  
some level of filling in order  to create an effective repair.
Regarding the movement  of the first floor the report concludes:
that the majority of the distortions to the first floor, floor structure are historic.  We believe 
that this deflection of the floor structure  including the timber beams is the result of the 
loading applied by the masonry around  the ensuite  bathroom and built in wardrobe. The 
slopes within  the floor structure are all consistent with point loading  of these walls
as opposed to a consistent slope towards  the rear left corner  (subsidence).;
and
We are of the opinion  that the floor structure is sound underfoot and has not been 
compromised by the recent subsidence  movement. In spite  of the deflection, we have no 
reason to suspect  that the floor structure will not continue to perform as it has done  for the 
past many  years.  That being the case we conclude that it is not essential that the floor 
structure is enhanced with the insertion of steels.
So, as I said, Im satisfied that there are two forms of movement  occurring at Mr Ls home.  
UKI is only liable  for resolving that related to subsidence. The deflection  of the first-floor 
hasnt been caused by subsidence so UKI doesnt  have to resolve  it. 
I appreciate this is frustrating for Mr L. But if I felt there were fair and reasonable grounds 
for making  UKI carry out this work,  I would  be requiring it to do just that. Unfortunately, for 
Mr L, that isnt the case and that means  Im not upholding his complaint. If UKI hasnt paid 
the £2,500 compensation  previously offered,  and Mr L wants to accept that payment, he 
can contact it directly  to arrange  that.
If Mr L chooses to undertake work  to resolve  the deflection  issue  it will be up to him who he 
chooses to carry  out that work.  If he wants UKIs contractors to do that along with the 
Ref: DRN44717295subsidence repairs, he could ask them to. However,  they wouldnt have to agree to that. If 
the subsidence contractors and Mr L do come  to some agreement regarding  the deflection  
repairs that would be a private contract  between those parties   UKI would be responsible 
for the subsidence  repairs but not any work  done  that is related to resolving the deflection.
my decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against U K Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4471729