K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) cancelled her motor insurance  policy. She 
wants record of the cancellation removed.
background
Mrs Rs policy with UKI was automatically  renewed.  UKI said it then wrote to her and asked 
for an additional premium  due to a claim recorded  after the renewal notice had been sent. 
Mrs R said she didn't  receive this letter. UKI then wrote to Mrs R to say that her policy  would 
be cancelled. Mrs R said she didnt receive this letter either and so the policy  was cancelled. 
UKI refused to reinstate  the policy and so Mrs R took out a new one. But UKI refused to 
remove record of the cancellation. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought UKI hadnt 
given Mrs R warning of the consequences of not responding to its request for additional 
premium. So he thought she hadnt had the chance  to put things right.  And so he thought  
UKI should remove any adverse information about the cancellation from Mrs Rs record.
UKI replied that its second letter to Mrs R had given her 14 days  notice of the cancellation  in 
which she could have  responded. It said it had followed the process set out in its policy 
booklet.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs Rs policy automatically renewed  and her annual premium was collected 
by direct debit. But when UKI asked for an additional  premium due to an open claim, Mrs R 
didnt respond  and the policy cancelled.  Mrs R said she first learned about  the cancellation 
of her policy when she received a customer satisfaction survey.  I can understand that this 
must have  been  a shock for her. 
I also think that UKIs decision will have  serious  consequences for Mrs R as she will need to 
report this cancellation  to future insurers  and theres no time limit on this. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
In Mrs Rs policy booklet, it says under General  Condition 11 that where a premium cant be 
collected, UKI will write to the consumer in order to give the opportunity to make the 
payment. If the premium  remains unpaid by the date due, then UKI will give 14 days  notice 
in writing that it will cancel  the policy and inform  the consumer in writing when the 
cancellation has taken  place. 
I think its for UKI to decide on its business  processes  and write to consumers rather than 
use other means. So I cant say that UKI should  have tried to contact Mrs R through  other 
methods, such as email.  
Ref: DRN43870192Our approach, however,  as the investigator has explained, is that due to the implications of 
having a policy cancelled, we think its fair and reasonable for an insurer  to contact the 
policyholder more than once to chase payment before cancelling the policy. But I cant  see 
that UKI did this.
I think UKI sent one letter to Mrs R asking  for additional premium and giving her 10 days  to 
respond. The letter warns that there  may be consequences for the continuity of her policy,  
but cancellation isnt mentioned. I can see that Mrs Rs correct address is on UKIs records. 
So I cant say why Mrs R didnt receive this letter, but I think it was sent.  
The next letter UKI sent to Mrs R gave her 14 days notice of cancellation, as per the policy 
terms and conditions. Mrs R said she didnt receive  this letter.  But this letter didnt mention 
the additional premium. It just asked her to contact  it if she wanted to discuss  the matter. So 
I dont think UKI did enough in this instance to contact Mrs R to give her a chance  to make 
the additional payment before cancelling the policy.  
Mrs R had already paid the years premium requested in her renewal documents. And when 
Mrs R learned  of the cancellation, she immediately  took out a new policy.  So I think  if Mrs R 
had been made sufficiently  aware  of the additional  premium, she would have paid this.
From the information Ive been provided,  I also cant see that UKI sent Mrs R confirmation  
that the policy had been cancelled. But I dont think this caused her any further harm. 
So I think UKIs cancellation of Mrs Rs policy was unfair as UKI only sent her one request 
for the additional  premium. Mrs R wasnt charged  a cancellation fee. UKI has provided us 
with evidence that the cancellation didnt affect  the premium she was charged for her new 
policy. So I cant see evidence that Mrs R suffered any financial loss from the cancellation.  
But I think UKI should remove record of the cancellation from Mrs Rs record  so that Mrs R 
neednt inform future insurers of the cancellation.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require UK Insurance Limited to remove  the 
cancellation of Mrs Rs policy from her record. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4387019