K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about the way Allianz  Insurance Plc dealt with a personal liability  claim 
under his pet insurance policy.  
My references to Allianz include its agent.  
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I was likely to uphold the complaint  and I include an extract from my 
provisional decision here:
At the end of December 2015 Mr H took out a maximum benefit pet insurance policy  with 
Allianz to cover his rescue dog. He answered some questions about the dog and Allianz 
excluded cover for claims relating to respiratory disorders and kennel cough. 
In January 2018 Mr Hs dog was being walked on a lead by a relative. I understand the dog 
was sitting down, but he unfortunately bit a person  passing close behind him. That person 
needed medical treatment for her injury.  The following month Mr H received a protocol letter 
from a firm of solicitor  acting for the injured person (the third party),  informing him of her 
intention to make a claim against  him for injury and related  expenses.  
Mr H passed the solicitors letter to Allianz.  In February and then in March 2018 he answered 
Allianz questions  about his dog and about other insurance under his home insurance policy. 
He didnt hear anything more until August 2018.  The third partys  solicitor had issued legal 
proceedings against him to obtain information  they said theyd  asked Allianz to provide.  He 
complained to Allianz. 
Allianz initial response was to withdraw cover. It said Mr H had known  his dog had lunged  
towards people  before  Mr H owned it, and hed not told Allianz about that. If he had then it 
would have excluded  claims for third party incidents  and behavioural disorders from the 
policys inception date.  Mr H disputed that he hadnt  told Allianz about the lunging incident 
and he questioned the delay in telling him this. In its final response Allianz removed the 
backdated exclusions. It offered him £100  for delay. In the meantime I understand that 
Mr Hs home  insurers had agreed to cover  the personal liability  claim. 
Mr H came to us. Our investigator upheld the complaint and recommended  Allianz increase 
the compensation to £200.  Neither Mr H nor Allianz  thought this was a fair outcome so the 
complaints come to me for review. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Im likely to uphold this complaint. Ill set out what I consider to be a fair settlement to this 
complaint and explain my reasons. Ive read all the evidence and both Mr H and Allianz  have 
raised a number of points.  I will focus  on what  I consider to be the central issues.  
Ref: DRN47989092the policy exclusions
Allianz is only fairly entitled  to apply exclusions backdated to the policys inception  date if 
Mr H failed to take reasonable care in answering  its clear questions at the time he applied  for 
the policy. Allianz hasnt  shown  that he failed to take reasonable care. Although  Ive seen the 
answers Mr H gave  in the online application Ive not seen the questions he was asked. He 
also says he did tell Allianz that the dog had lunged  towards  people  before he owned  the 
dog. 
In any event, Allianz underwriter has said that the information obtained from the rescue  
centre was such that the lunging was playful and not aggressive.  So it agreed to remove  
the third party  and behavioural exclusions from the policys start date. But this was two 
months after it notified Mr H that the exclusions had been applied. I will return to this point. 
Allianz was entitled  to apply the third party and behavioural disorder policy exclusions from 
the December  2018 renewal date.  This is in line with the policy  terms. I dont think this point 
is in dispute and Ive included it here for the sake of completeness.  
the handling of claim
I think Allianz handling of the personal  liability claim was very poor. Mr H complied with the 
relevant policy  conditions by immediately notifying  Allianz of the claim against  him. He also 
promptly gave Allianz the information it asked him about his dogs behaviour  and about his 
home insurers. He was reasonably entitled to think that Allianz would deal with the claim on 
his behalf. 
Ive looked at all Allianz internal emails and its communications  both with the third partys 
solicitor and Mr Hs home insurer. It was in March  2018 that Allianz asked its underwriter to 
review the claim, in view of the dogs behaviour before  Mr H owned it. This wasnt followed 
up. In June 2018 the third partys solicitors asked Allianz to respond to its request for 
information about the claim under  the pre-action  protocol  (a process  known as discovery). 
Allianz didnt respond. 
It was only in August  2018 when proceedings were issued against Mr H for discovery  that 
Allianz began to consider the underwriting question properly. It then made its decision to 
withdraw cover (by retrospectively placing exclusions  for third party incidents and 
behavioural disorders on the policy). Had Allianz  investigated  this issue properly at an earlier 
stage  including contacting the rescue centre  then it would have  made a properly  
informed decision not to apply the exclusions. This would have avoided all the distress  and 
inconvenience to Mr H. 
Fortunately Mr H did have  home insurance and he was able to ask his other insurers  to deal 
with the claim. Allianz suggests  that this means our recommended compensation of £200  in 
total is too high.  But I dont agree the current level of compensation goes far enough, and Ill 
explain why:
Mr H was understandably very upset and distressed to find that Allianz hadnt accepted the 
claim and he was worried hed have to fund any payment to the third party himself perhaps 
by way of a personal loan. When he contacted Allianz about the action he had to chase  for a 
response and then he was then told it had withdrawn cover. It was a further two months 
before he received its complaint response,  despite  the urgency of the situation.  
Ref: DRN47989093Allianz says that the backdated  exclusions were  removed  on 25 August 2018 and so there 
were only a few days between placing the exclusions and removing them. But I dont think 
thats correct. Based  on its internal  emails  it seems to me that Allianz  underwriting  team  
didnt confirm the backdated exclusions should be removed  until 25 October  2018. Only then 
did Allianz explain its position in the final response  letter. 
The insurance cover for personal liability is one of the reasons that consumers take out pet 
insurance for dogs.  Mr H had paid the premiums to Allianz. Hed complied with the policy 
terms and could reasonably expect Allianz to deal properly and promptly  with his claim.  It 
failed to do so, and I dont underestimate  Mr Hs distress in having legal proceedings taken 
against him for information that Allianz  should  have given to the third partys solicitors  had it 
dealt properly with the claim. At that point he didnt know that his home insurers  would agree 
to cover him under his home insurance  policy. 
In its final response letter  Allianz told Mr H that its claims team would contact him. They  
didnt. He could  have chased  this with Allianz but I dont think this was his responsibility. In 
the meantime  hed made a claim to his home insurers  and a complaint to this service. 
my likely award
I am concerned that Mr H has had to make  a claim under his home insurance policy  when, in 
fact, Allianz was the correct insurer to deal with the claim. I say this because  his home 
insurance policy covered  a claim of this type only when Mr H was not covered by another 
insurance policy. Mr H did have cover  under the Allianz policy  but it had wrongly removed  
that cover  backdated to his policys start date.  This meant that Allianz  informed his home  
insurer that, in fact, it didnt accept  liability  for the claim. Its possible that Mr Hs premiums 
under his home insurance policy will be affected  by the claim. This is unfair. I invite  him to let 
me know if thats the case with any evidence of the impact on his home insurance premium  
for the following policy year. If he needs more  time to get this evidence he should let our 
investigator know. I will share any evidence with Allianz before reaching  my final decision but 
if theres evidence of a financial loss then its likely  I will make an additional award  for that 
loss.
I think Allianz should pay a higher amount of compensation for distress and inconvenience.  I 
assess that a total amount of £500 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. This is a 
substantial award. It reflects the fact that Mr H experienced material distress and 
inconvenience which was entirely avoidable  had Allianz dealt properly with the claim. If 
Allianz has paid the £100  it offered to Mr H then the £500 includes this amount   and it will 
have to pay an additional £400.  
Mr H has also asked for an apology from Allianz.  I think in the circumstances of this case  this 
is appropriate and I intend to direct  Allianz  to write  an apology  letter  to Mr H. The letter  must  
apologise to Mr H for Allianz  delay in dealing with the claim and for wrongly  refusing liability  
under the policy  by placing exclusions on the policy for third party claims and behavioural 
disorders backdated  to the policys start date. 
Finally Mr H has raised the point about the publication of decisions. This provisional  decision 
is not published, but I will include the findings Ive reached in my provisional decision/s in 
any final decision that is then published  on our website.
Ref: DRN47989094responses
Mr H responded to say that he appreciated and agreed with my provisional decision and 
suggested award, and that Id recognised the distress caused to him and his family He 
wanted to make a few points, which he recognised might  not effect the final decision:
He started his application for the pet insurance policy online, but because of his dogs 
breed Allianz contacted him by phone to discuss the application. During this 
discussion he explained what  he had been  told by the rescue centre  that the dog 
hadnt bitten anyone but had been  returned  by his previous  family as he had lunged.  
Allianz doesnt appear to have a record of this conversation but the information in its 
policy about certain breeds may support that this conversation took place in 
December 2015.  
He did make Allianz aware  of the previous lunging as shown by his 
January/February 2018 emails with Allianz.
His home insurance premiums have  not increased as a result of the claim.
Allianz has failed  to contact him even though it was supposed to do so and has not 
dealt with the claim. 
Allianz responded to say that it agreed  to the increased award  as it acknowledged there 
were delays on its part. But it didnt  consider  it should have to pay any additional premium 
for Mr Hs home insurance,  for the reason below. Allianz also explained another  area where 
it wasnt quite comfortable with my findings:
In response to its underwriting questions Mr H said: 
In the last 5 years has anyone raised  any concerns about (name)  behaviour   No
Has (name) attacked, bitten or been  aggressive  towards another  person or animal?  
No
But Mr H has since said he told Allianz  about  the lunging behaviour. 
As part of the claims process, in March  2018  it agreed that it would deal with the third 
party claim and recover costs 50/50  between Allianz and the home insurer.  So this 
means Mr Hs home insurance  premium  would always have been affected. 
After the policy  exclusions were removed Allianz  contacted  the home insurer  in 
December 2018 and said it was offering cover again  as agreed in the beginning so it 
would contribute  50/50 to Mr Hs claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still uphold  the 
complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional  decision and here.  
Both Mr H and Allianz have agreed with my proposed compensation award. So theres no 
dispute about that and I confirm the award. I also require Allianz to make  an apology  as set 
out below.
Mr H says his home insurance  premium  hasnt increased as a result of the personal liability 
claim. So I dont make  any award, given hes not suffered  a loss. 
Allianz has made the point that it had already  agreed  to contribute  50% towards any claim 
payment made by Mr Hs home insurer. I hadnt  been  aware  of that until its response to my 
Ref: DRN47989095provisional decision. I take its point that as a result this might  always have been treated as a 
claim under  both policies. But I dont need  to make  a finding on this now because  Mr Hs 
home insurance premium  hasnt increased  as a result of the claim. 
I do think it would have  been helpful  if Allianz had contacted Mr H to explain what  it had 
agreed with his home insurer. Hed been expecting to hear from Allianz because  thats  what 
it had said would happen. Its not clear  that he was aware  what was happening  behind the 
scenes.
Ive noted all the comments about  whether Mr H took reasonable care before the policy  was 
taken out. Allianz  has given us the online questions and Mr Hs answers. But Mr H has 
consistently said that he spoke to Allianz before the policy  was taken and told it about the 
dogs lunging.  Hes explained  the context in which that call was made.
I dont need to decide whether Mr H took reasonable care and my decision doesnt  turn on 
this point. This is because  Allianz  has agreed  to remove the third party and behavioural 
exclusions from the policys  start date. But even if there  had been  a lack of reasonable care 
(and I make no finding on this point)  Allianz hasnt been able to show  that it would have 
offered the policy on different terms. I say this because when it received further details its 
underwriter concluded  that the dogs lunging was playful and not aggressive.  On this basis  
it decided to remove the exclusions from the policys start date.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. 
I direct  Allianz Insurance Plc to write to Mr H to apologise for its delay  in dealing with the 
claim and for wrongly refusing liability for the claim under  the policy by placing exclusions on 
the policy for third party claims  and behavioural disorders backdated to the policys  start 
date; and
I order Allianz to pay Mr H total compensation of £500 compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience. If its already paid him £100  then it will need  to pay an additional £400.
Allianz must  pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr H 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 8% per year 
simple.
Ref: DRN47989096Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Allianz considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN4798909