K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs G complain  that Santander  UK Plc took too long dealing  with their commercial 
loan application,  and then declined it.
background
On 13 August 2018 Mr S and Mrs G approached Santander for funding for a commercial 
property theyd agreed to buy. The property had an asking price of £425,000 and Mr S and 
Mrs Gs sealed bid of £465,000 had been accepted the week before; theyd agreed to use 
their best endeavours to exchange contracts within four weeks.
Santander told Mr S and Mrs G what it initially needed from them, and that a valuation would 
be required.
It took some time for the valuation report to be received; the inspection was carried out on 
6 September,  but the report wasnt completed  until 1 October. At that time information  was 
still needed from Mr S and Mrs G, and that information was received on 12 October and 
20 October. Once  everything was received Santander reviewed  the application and it had 
some serious concerns  about  the business;  no trading figures had been provided by the 
vendor, which  led Santander to wonder why it was being sold and whether it was trading at a 
loss. It also questioned some outgoings and financial commitments that Mr S and Mrs G 
hadnt disclosed. Santander  decided  it couldnt proceed with the loan application.
Our investigator didnt  think Santander  had done  anything wrong. She said Santander hadnt 
committed to any particular timeframe, and it was awaiting information from Mr S and Mrs G 
before it could make its lending decision. Mr S and Mrs G didnt agree, and so the matters  
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I trust Mr S and Mrs G wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in 
the way that I have.  Ours is an informal dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  point 
its not because  Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.  
Santander doesnt have the expertise  to value property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified  and competent surveyor 
 a requirement that was fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of the Royal  Institution 
of Chartered Surveyors.  Santanders not accountable to Mr S and Mrs G for any potential  
issues in the way the surveyor  carried out his role, including  the time taken  for the report  to 
be provided.
We cant consider complaints about the surveyor, who is independent  and not a member  of 
Santanders staff,  as its simply not in our jurisdiction to do so. So, while  I can appreciate  that 
the time it took for the report to be received may have been frustrating for Mr S and Mrs G, I 
cant hold Santander  liable for that.
Ref: DRN44089992In any event, the complaint doesnt turn on that. As when the valuation  report  was received 
Santander still needed draft accounts  for one of Mr S and Mrs Gs existing businesses which 
it didnt receive until 12 October. Santander  also needed Mr S and Mrs G to provide 
projections and forecasts for the new business  as the vendor wasnt providing any trading 
figures and Santander needed to assess the profitability of the proposition.
Mr S and Mrs G agreed the timescale with the vendor in advance and Santander had no 
input in that discussion. Having reviewed everything  I cant see Santander ever committed to 
a specific timescale for the assessment of this application. Mr S and Mrs G say Santander 
was aware of the timescale, but being aware  of the timescale Mr S and Mrs G had 
committed to didnt  bind Santander to meet that. Santander was being  asked by Mr S and 
Mrs G to lend them  a significant sum of money  for a new business,  and its only right 
Santander undertook a full and detailed assessment of that request. It needed  information  
from Mr S and Mrs G to do so, and until that was received it wasnt  in a position  to make a 
decision on the application.
Mr S and Mrs G have  said the vendor pulled out because Santander  didnt answer their calls 
or emails. But it wasnt Santanders  responsibility  to reply to emails and calls from the vendor 
as they werent  its customer.
Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied Santander  didnt unduly delay Mr S and Mrs Gs 
application, and couldnt have told them any sooner that it was unsuccessful.  Santander is 
entitled to ensure any application it receives  fits its lending criteria and unfortunately 
sometimes this takes longer than others.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 October  2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4408999