K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc handled  his claim for damage from an escape of 
water under his building insurance policy very poorly.
background
Mr H reported a leak at his home to AXA after his plumber said the damage was from his 
underfloor heating. AXA appointed  loss adjusters to trace it, but said this wasnt possible.  It 
told Mr H his policy would cover trace and access of the leak, but not fixing  the leak. AXA 
later apologised for confusion about the policy cover  and paid Mr H compensation. 
Mr H complained to AXA that it had put his claim on hold until the leaks  could be traced. He 
said the leak was from his underfloor heating and had damaged his flooring. He said 
because of the number and extent  of the leaks and the time involved, the only option was to 
remove and relay the entire ground  floor heating system. 
AXA responded to Mr Hs complaint saying that its agents hadnt  been able to trace the leak 
and should have contact him about  this. AXA said there  were  delays and poor service  and 
by way of compensation cancelled Mr Hs policy excess of £400. AXA said once Mr H had 
traced the leak it would  discuss  the level of cover available. AXA then apologised for the 
further delays  and service  issues and paid £200  further compensation. 
Mr H said AXA hadnt dealt with his claim for repair  of his heating system.  Mr H appointed a 
contractor to inspect  the system and it identified three leaks. It said that as so much time had 
passed it wouldn't recommend repairing the flooring as it wouldnt get an even finish. But it 
recommended installing  a new heating system and a new screed. AXA said there  wasn't 
enough evidence  of an insured peril for it to cover the work. AXA told Mr H it would be willing 
to replace the floor, but he would need to trace the leak to show there was an insured peril. 
Mr H got a contractor to inspect his heating and it identified three leaks and recommended  
repairs. But AXA said there was no thermal imaging of the system and said that the damage 
could be due to a rise in the water  table or defective damp proof.   
The investigator recommended  the complaint be upheld as she didnt think AXA had dealt 
with Mr Hs claim fairly. She said AXA took a long time but failed to find leaks  and then said 
Mr H should find the leak. She said Mr Hs contractor found  three  leaks  and recommended  
work to resolve the problems. She thought that AXA could have contacted the contractor to 
say it required thermal imaging of the leaks. She said AXA should progress the claim. 
AXA disagreed with the investigator.  AXA said its agents couldnt trace a leak and it was up 
to Mr H to prove his claim.  But it hadnt  had a report from Mr H confirming any leaks.  AXA 
said its agents thought the issue could be anything from rising  water table to defective  damp  
proof course. It said it explained  to Mr H that if he discovers a leak then his policy  can 
engage. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigator saying she had only recommended AXA contact  the 
contractor for further information. He said hed already demonstrated the leaks  by showing 
the drop in boiler pressure and AXAs suggestion  of alternative causes can be discounted. 
Mr H said the compensation paid was inadequate  for the poor service hed suffered.  Both 
parties requested  an ombudsman review the complaint.
Ref: DRN43552172my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has confirmed that Mr Hs policy will cover damage from a leak in his underfloor heating  
system. However, AXAs agents  said they couldnt identify a leak despite using thermal 
imaging equipment. AXA said its contractor didn't have the speciality to find the leak and it 
asked Mr H to use his contractor. In any event, AXA said the onus is on Mr H to show  that 
there has been an insured peril.
Both Mr Hs plumber and the specialist contractors  he used said there  were  leaks within the 
underfloor heating system. Neither  have provided thermal imaging of the leak and AXA has 
declined to undertake work without this information. AXA said that the damage could be due 
to a rise in the water table  or defective  damp  proof.
I can see why AXA wants some certainty  about  the problem, particularly as the work  will be 
expensive. However,  it was on AXAs request that Mr H asked the contractor  for its 
assessment of the damage,  and it provided  its recommendation.  Its not Mr Hs fault that 
thermal images havent been provided to AXA and the investigator made  the point that AXA 
could have liaised with the contractor  about its requirements for information.
I understand that the heating pipes  are embedded within a concrete screed and so access  
has been very difficult. Mr H says theres  no hope of pin pointing a leak through thermal  
imaging as the entire floor is a heat source. And he said this is made even more difficult  
because the area is which  is waterlogged.
AXA hasnt provided  any evidence to support the other  possible  causes  of the Mr Hs 
problems that it put forward. And I think Mr H makes a fair point  that thermal imaging 
wouldnt help in this instance. Consequently, I dont think there can be certainty about the 
cause of the problems until the screed is removed and the pipes fully exposed.  However, 
from the reports Ive seen, I think a leak in the underfloor pipes is the much more  likely 
cause and should be investigated  by exposing and fully examining  the heating  system. 
Mr H has been inconvenienced for more  than 18 months and AXA hadnt been  proactive 
enough to settle this claim. And delays in dealing with the claim may have caused further 
damage to Mr Hs property. I am pleased  that AXA has apologised for its poor service  and I 
think that the compensation it has paid is about  right for the impact on Mr H.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld.  I require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to expose and carry out any repairs  required to Mr Hs underfloor 
heating system. I also require AXA Insurance UK Plc to fully restore the heating  system and 
flooring as part of Mr Hs claim.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Andrew Fraser
Ref: DRN43552173ombudsman
Ref: DRN4355217