K820x#14Complaint
Mrs W says National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
Background and summary to complaint
Mrs W bought the policy  in 2000 at around  the same time as taking out a mortgage that 
started in 2001.  She applied for the mortgage  and PPI policy  in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and accidental  death  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £400 a month  towards Mrs Ws 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £20.48 a month. 
At the time,  Mrs W was employed as a travel consultant. She has told us she was entitled to 
full sick pay for up to six months  followed by half pay for up to a further six months as well as 
enhanced redundancy  pay. She said she also had around £10,000 in savings. Mrs W has 
said she had several medical conditions at the time of the sale. 
Mrs W arranged  further advances in 2003  and 2005  and her policy  was amended  
accordingly on each  occasion to reflect her increased borrowing. Her circumstances were 
largely unchanged from those in 2000.
NatWest has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in May 2006. 
Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ws representative says:
NatWest failed to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs W wouldnt 
have taken out the PPI and the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mrs Ws representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The PPI excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the PPI was of inherently poor value as shown  by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NatWest should  have 
told Mrs W about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NatWest should  have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs W and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The PPI only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop just at the time it 
would be most  needed;  and 
Ref: DRN41385302The information Mrs W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to respond to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs W disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
The last policy amendment took place in May 2005,  after the sale of general  insurance 
products like this became  regulated by the Financial  Services  Authority (FSA)  in January 
2005. So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance 
conduct rules (ICOB)  are applicable to this aspect  of the complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
Ref: DRN41385303GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
NatWest, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The policy amendment in 2005 took place after the sale of mortgage products became 
regulated by the FSA.  So the mortgage  conduct  of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable  to 
that aspect of this complaint. Prior to regulation subscribing lenders and mortgage 
intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage code. While predominantly about mortgage 
related matters, it also included some  insurance-related commitments.  As with the sale of 
general insurance, there is much in common between the pre and post-regulatory  position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The policy amendment in May 2005 took place after insurance mediation  became a 
regulated activity in January 2005,  so NatWest was required to take into account  the 
provisions in DISP App 3 when considering that aspect of Mrs Ws complaint.
Key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If NatWest  gave  advice, whether it advised  Mrs W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether NatWest gave Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the PPI, including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the PPI and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN41385304-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs W suffered  loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs W and 
NatWest, Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Did Mrs W know she had a choice?
NatWest had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Ws signed mortgage  application of 2000  in which she was asked if 
she wanted PPI. The form indicates she did want PPI and that she wanted a monthly  benefit  
of £400.
The applications for the subsequent further advances  also indicate to me that she wanted 
PPI despite being given  a choice about  taking  it.    
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mrs W knew  the PPI was optional and 
she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
Did NatWest provide  advice?
NatWest says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Looking at what  happened when 
NatWest sold Mrs W the PPI, and amended the cover in 2003 and 2005,  I think  the 
representative made it clear that no advice was being given.
This means  NatWest didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs W. Instead, it had 
to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mrs W to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the PPI, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the PPI and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
The information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs W was given a broad description of what the PPI 
was intended  to cover (that is that the PPI would protect her payments if she was unable  to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. Ive 
reached this conclusion because of the paperwork I can see Mrs W was given at the 
relevant times. 
But the evidence  from the times of each sale doesnt  tell us whether NatWest  gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mrs W agreed to take out the PPI. 
So I dont  think NatWest  gave Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the PPI, including  drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the PPI and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN41385305Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ws representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that NatWest ought to have done  either. 
What effect did NatWests  shortcomings  have  on Mrs W? To what extent did Mrs W 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found NatWest didnt do all it should have  done when it sold the PPI to Mrs W. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs W suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mrs W would have still 
taken out the policy,  had NatWest done  things properly. 
Mrs W says she would not have  taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs W had to weigh  up in her own mind the cost of the PPI 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of her being unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs W chose  to take this cover out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs W thought  she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mrs W has suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Mrs W was given about  the cost and benefit was clear.  But the information 
about other aspects  of the PPI, such as the exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have 
been.  
Ref: DRN41385306Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs W thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs W knew  about 
before the start date of the policy or which occurred within the first 12 months  of the 
policy and were  treated or diagnosed in the 12 months  immediately before the start 
of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs W 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs W be unable to 
do her own job or a similar  job which  her training,  education  or ability  reasonably 
qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs W pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the PPI 
was not as good as she thought  and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs W from taking out the PPI. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, could have proved valuable  to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mrs W says she had medical 
conditions when the PPI was taken  out and the PPI wouldnt  have provided  cover had she 
needed time off work because of these  conditions, I dont think  better information about this 
exclusion would have  put her off agreeing to it. 
I say this because  it appears  Mrs W hadnt suffered with the majority of the conditions  she 
mentioned for several years before she bought the first policy  in 2000.  Anxiety  and 
depression had caused her to take time off work  but it seems that was in 1994  when first 
diagnosed. Mrs W doesnt mention  taking any time off work for hypothyroidism.  And 
although she says shes missed some days because of migraines, the waiting period for PPI 
claims was 30 days. So I think  it unlikely shed have considered that condition in itself was 
likely to lead to a claim  on the cover.   
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs W would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the PPI without first providing some evidence  to 
support that claim.
If Mrs W had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and an alternative  occupation  which in the insurers view she might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mrs W was unable (through disability) to carry on her 
own occupation the chances  that she would be able to take up a similar occupation  would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
Ref: DRN41385307I think NatWest  told Mrs W that any claim she made would be limited  to a 12-month period. 
In any event, this may have differed  from what  she expected and might have hoped for. But 
12 months was a longer period than Mrs W would have received full sick pay for and given 
her length  of service  its likely her redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 
months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs W would  still have  thought a policy that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Mrs W be unable  to work in the circumstances covered 
by the PPI. The PPI allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure her home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Mrs Ws sick pay, redundancy money and savings for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs W would still have  taken out the PPI. The cover was sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences if Mrs W was made redundant, or unable to work through  the accident or 
disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mrs W would have 
taken out the PPI and agreed to the subsequent amendments in any event notwithstanding  
the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs W wouldnt have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs W 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the PPI. Im not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs W in the position she would have  been  in if she had 
not bought the PPI. 
Ref: DRN41385308That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the PPI, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she would still have taken  out 
the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the cover  she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude NatWest should pay Mrs W compensation, as that would put her in a better  
position than she would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs W thinks NatWest misrepresented the terms of the cover  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
NatWests statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NatWest  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information NatWest gave Mrs W, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 2000, 2003 and 2005  when providing  information about insurance policies. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ws representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find NatWest negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mrs W and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that NatWest had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs W in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4138530