K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains about the repairs that Admiral Insurance Company Limited carried out on his 
car under his motor insurance policy.  He wants it to fix his car door.
background
Mr T is a named driver on his wifes policy with Admiral. Mr T said that after his car was 
repaired following a claim he had trouble opening  and closing the cars door. Admiral said 
this wasnt due to the repairs,  but to wear and tear.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  repairs  had 
been made only to the door that now had problems. So she thought it likely that the 
problems opening  and closing the door were related to the repairs. She thought  Admiral  
should rectify this and pay Mr T £300 compensation for the trouble and upset this had 
caused him.
Admiral replied that it didnt think the problems Mr T had with the doors locks were  due to 
the accident or the repairs. It said Mr T had told it that the problem occurred only in cold 
weather, which  could mean that water in the locks froze. It thought this was outside its 
control. It also said it only had Mr Ts word that there  was a problem. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would  be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations,  the insurance  companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether  it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
Mr T had his car repaired  three years ago. The original door locks had been fitted into the 
repaired door of his car. Mr T said he noticed  problems with the door a few months later,  in 
winter. The approved repairer stripped  the door down  and found nothing wrong with the 
locks. After Mr T had returned  the car three  times, the repairer recommended that he take it 
to a main dealer for diagnosis.  
The main  dealer said there it could find no problems with the locks  but it said the issue  could 
be due to water freezing  in the lock in icy weather. It thought the locks  should be replaced. 
But Admiral  said this wasnt  related to the accident  or the repairs,  but due to wear  and tear. 
Admiral thought it was for Mr T to show that the problem with the locks  was due to the way 
the locks had been fitted by the repairer. But I dont  think thats  fair and reasonable. I think  
its for Admiral to show that the repairs havent  caused the problem. 
This is because Mr T said he first noticed the problem after the door was repaired. There 
were no problems with the other doors.  Admirals  approved repairer had refitted the original 
locks into the doors. The main dealer  thought water might  be freezing in the locks.  It may be 
that the refitting allowed  water to enter the lock and then it froze in cold weather. I dont think 
Admiral has reasonably considered this point. 
Ref: DRN49600782Admiral said that if there was a problem with the locks then it would be constant, not just in 
cold weather. But I dont think this takes  into account the main dealers view that water  could  
freeze in the locks  and so the problem would be evident only in winter. 
Admiral later said that it only had Mr Ts word  that there was a problem with the locks.  From  
what I can see, the inspections by the repairer  and the main  dealer were all done  on site, and 
presumably inside. So the locks wouldnt then be frozen. But I can see from Admirals  letters  
that Mr T sent the approved repairer videos of the issue.  Mr T said hed done  this on two 
occasions. So I think its unreasonable for Admiral to say that it has no evidence of the issue. 
So I think Admiral hasnt  shown that the issue with the door isnt related to the repairs carried  
out. I think Admiral hasnt justified its decision not to repair the locks on Mr Ts car. I think  it 
should now do this. Mr T had to take his back and forth to the repairers. He had the trouble 
of not being able to open  and close his car door correctly for a long time.  The adjudicator 
recommended that Admiral should pay Mr T £300 compensation for this trouble and upset. I 
think thats fair and reasonable  as its what Id recommend in similar circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to do the following:
1.Arrange for the issues with Mr Ts car door to be fixed.
2.Pay Mr T £300  compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4960078