K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LV) service 
after he claimed on his motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr M was in an accident. LV said his car wasn't  economical to repair.  So it deemed it a total 
loss and paid the cars  market value to the company that provided the finance for Mr M to 
buy the car. As the settlement was less than the amount owing on his finance Mr M still 
owed money to the finance company and he couldn't afford to buy a replacement car. LV 
also told Mr M hed need  to pay the rest of his premium for his car's insurance.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator  didnt think  LV had done  anything wrong. 
Mr M didn't agree so his complaints been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Ms made a number of detailed points. And I've considered 
everything he's said carefully. But in this decision I will focus on what  I see as being the key 
outstanding points following our investigators  assessment of the complaint.
should LV have deemed Mr Ms car a total loss
LV said that the cost to repair to Mr Ms car was in the region of £4,500  which made it 
uneconomical to repair.  Mr M said that LV arrived at that repair  estimate without an engineer 
ever seeing  his car. And he disputed the estimates accuracy. He said that a local engineer 
had told him that the car could be repaired for around £1,200. So he said he didn't think  LV 
should have deemed his car a total loss. He thinks it should  have  repaired  it and returned  it 
to him
It seems  that the engineers LV instructed who decided that Mr Ms car was a total loss did so 
after considering photos of the damage  to it rather than physically inspecting  it. But I don't 
think that means that the estimate wasn't valid. Its not unusual for engineers  to do whats  
known as desk-top  assessments of cars to establish estimates for repairs. And engineering 
firms have industry recognised software  to help them  produce  those  estimates. That 
software will produce an estimate based on the specific make and model of the car for the 
known areas  of repair required. And its apparent thats what happened  in this case. That is 
the engineers  who assessed Mr Ms car input  the known details and produced an estimate 
that meant  that the car wasn't economical to repair. And I didn't think there was anything  
wrong with LV relying  on that estimate.
Mr Ms said that the local engineers told him they could fix the car for a fraction of the cost.  It 
seems the local engineers  gave their estimate orally and didn't produce  a written report of 
how they arrived at their sum. So its not possible to compare whether they included all the 
repairs the car required. And Mr Ms said that the estimate included using second hand 
parts, which isn't something LVs repairers would have done. Also its usual for an insurer  
like LV to use approved  repairers who guarantee their work for a number of years.  And its 
Ref: DRN45679052not clear if the local engineers would also have provided that guarantee, which might have 
reduced the estimate. 
Also, I think its worth  noting  that neither LV nor the engineer who provided the repair 
estimate had anything to gain by deeming the car a total loss. In settling  the claim as a total 
loss LV had to pay out over £4,550. If it could  have repaired the car for £3,300 less than that 
sum I think it would  have done  so. Similarly, had LVs engineers not deemed the car a total 
loss LV would have  asked them to repair it. That means they could have charged LV for their 
labour in doing so. And given that labour charges are often the most expensive part of a 
repair estimate, its likely the engineers would have stood to gain many hundreds if not 
thousands of pounds by deciding the car was repairable. But by deeming the car a total loss 
they were only paid for the assessment, which was a sum in two figures.  So I don't think 
LVs engineers would  have arrived  at a decision that the car was a total loss if they didn't 
think, that in their professional opinion,  that was accurate.  And in the absence  of evidence to 
the contrary, other than what Mr Ms said, I think it was reasonable for LV to rely on the 
engineers estimate  and deem the car a total loss. I dont think  it was under any obligation  to 
instruct a second  firm of engineers simply because Mr M told it hed had a cheaper estimate.
should Mr M have to pay his full policy  premium
Mr Ms said that LV has invoked the policys small print to say that he has to pay the full 
policy premium.  But I don't think hes right. It might help if I explain that although an annual  
premium may be paid in instalments, each instalment  is essentially a contribution  towards 
the total cost of a single fee. And that fee is the premium for the insurer  covering the risks 
set out in the policy. So, once an insurer has paid out on a policy the customer  has had the 
benefit of that policy  and the full premium  is due.
In this case Mr M insured  the market value of his car, which  is what  LV paid to settle  his 
claim. So he's had the full benefit  that his policy provides.  Mr M could have asked LV if it 
would add another car to the policy until its term came to an end but he didn't replace his car 
within that period  and so didn't do so. And in those circumstances I think  it was reasonable 
for LV to ask for the full amount of the policys premium. Mr Ms said that in taking that action 
LV has invoked  the policys small print. But, as far as I'm aware,  this is a common  approach  
of most insurers in the motor insurance market.  That is if the insurer  pays  out on a claim 
against a policy it will expect to receive the full premium. Thats the case  even if its 
cancelled or ended before the full policy term. So, as this is a common term I don't think  it 
needs to be highlighted within policy documents.
I understand that Mr M believes hes been inconvenienced by LVs handling of his claim and 
by what he believes is a flawed process.  Hes added that hes suffered financially. But as I've 
said above, Im satisfied that it was fair for LV to rely on the estimate its engineers provided 
and to settle the claim as it did. So I don't think it did follow a flawed process. And I don't 
think that any inconvenience or financial hardship  Mr M suffered was because  of anything  
LV did wrong.
For completeness, Ill note that while the complaints been  waiting for an ombudsmans  
review Mr Ms told us about other points concerning LVs handling of the claim.  For example 
about delays deciding liability and the effect  this has had on his premiums going  forward. But 
as these aren't  points that he raised when he brought the complaint to us and I don't know if 
hes put those  to LV,  I don't intend  to comment on those  matters in this decision.  
Ref: DRN45679053my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr M to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4567905