K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Curtis Banks Limited  (Curtis) delayed the transfer of his Self-Invested 
Pension Plan (SIPP).
background
Mr W had held his SIPP, which included three commercial properties, with Curtis and its 
predecessors for a number of years.  He says he became unhappy with Curtis and decided  
to move the SIPP to another business I will call B. Curtis says that he first made  it aware of 
his intentions in November 2016.  
There followed a series  of actions by all the parties  concerned in the transaction  and their 
agents which I wont set out in full detail here. I trust Mr W and Curtis will understand that the 
following is an abbreviated summary  of events. 
Curtis says that B asked  for the transfer to be made in February 2017 and the signed transfer 
forms were received from Mr W on 14 June 2017. Curtis sent Mr W a questionnaire and asked 
which solicitor he would  be using.  It sent him details of its panel of solicitors,  but also offered 
him the opportunity to appoint one outside  the panel. If he took this latter option he had to pay 
a fee of £200. Mr W selected a firm of solicitors from the panel, which  I will call G, on 16 June. 
Curtis sought confirmation from B that it would accept a property transfer  and this was 
received on 3 July. Three days  later Curtis  contacted G. It then let Mr W have a fee quote 
from G and asked if he was content with this and he confirmed he was on 1 August. G was 
instructed to proceed  on 9 August.
Curtis chased up G on 4th and 14th September. Mr W emailed Curtis on 25 September  and 
it again chased up the solicitors. G then sent a list of queries  to Curtis which it forwarded on 
to Mr W. Curtis continued to chase G which said that in early October it was awaiting 
answers to queries from Mr W. He told Curtis on 13 October that he had responded. It 
seems that Mr W had supplied the information  to B. By the end of November G noted that it 
still needed further information about the properties to proceed.
By early December B contacted G to say it has received replies but these are in a different 
format to usual. As the information is the best she will get, she will try to proceed. Around 
this time Mr W challenged Gs fees which he thought were too high. 
Curtis had an internal  restructure and in January the work  was transferred to another  office. 
It was noted that one of the properties  had a tenant but no lease agreement. Also some  of 
the details impacting the tax position hadnt  been  finalised. The process was completed in 
February. However, Curtis had imposed its annual charges for the year at the beginning of 
January. Mr W didnt  consider that to be fair as he believed it had delayed  the transfer which 
should have been completed  by the end of 2017.
Curtis rejected Mr Ws complaint and so he brought the matter to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend it be upheld. Mr W said that 
Curtis had delayed instructing B which was slow to begin work  on the transfer. He suggested 
it abused its monopoly  position and charged excessive fees. He also expressed his concern 
about Curtiss handling of his complaint and failure  to give him referral rights to this service.
Ref: DRN46241982Then investigator said the work  of B didnt fall within the remit of this service  so he wasnt  
able to comment on this or the fees it charged. He also considered  that part of the reason 
the matter took as long as it did was Mr Ws delay in responding to queries. He concluded  
that Curtis  couldnt  be held responsible for the delays leading to the further  charges.
Mr W didnt agree and felt the core of his complaint hadnt been properly addressed.  He 
didnt consider the central three month  delay  between 16 June and 22 September  had been  
fully explored. He also said that he hadnt  been in email  contact  with G which  had been 
selected and appointed  by Curtis.  This meant  he wasnt responsible  for any delay. He said 
he believed  Curtis  had delayed the transfer in order to benefit financially.
The investigator provided Mr W with a timeline  of events for the three month  period 
beginning on 16 June.  However Mr W didnt  consider this activity  amounted  to sound  
practice. The investigator later provided details of the information G had been seeking  and 
the exchange of emails  between various  parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would say at the outset  that I am dealing with a complaint  against  Curtis and not any of the 
other parties  to this transaction.  The activities of G fall outside  my remit and if Mr W has 
concerns about  its actions  or lack of them he must  pursue  those by another route. Therefore 
it falls to me to consider  the actions of Curtis and whether it caused  unnecessary  delay 
which caused Mr W additional costs.
It has been suggested that G was selected and appointed by Curtis. That is not the case. 
Curtis provided Mr W with a list of solicitors  on its panel which  have some  knowledge  and 
expertise in pensions and property transfers.  It also said he could appoint his own solicitor, 
but it would  charge him an administration fee of £200. Mr W chose G and it was then 
instructed by Curtis. I dont consider that makes  Curtis responsible  for the actions of G. It 
became Gs client. The process is set out in its property guide which explains how such 
pension funds operate.
This transaction wasnt straightforward.  It involved three commercial  properties, one of which 
was let out without a lease being in place.  It involved a number  of interested parties, Mr W, 
Curtis, B and the two firms of solicitors.  It also involved tax issues  and land registration. All of 
this meant  that it wasnt surprising that the matter took some time. 
Mr W has expressed his view that Curtis  delayed matters by three  months from 16 June. 
I have set out some of the actions during this period  in the background section above. It not 
only dealt with G, but it also corresponded with B about whether it was willing to accept 
property  not all providers do so. It is possible it might have sped up the process slightly  at 
this point, by running the two strands  of activity in tandem. However, I dont  consider it 
unreasonable to have  sought clarification that Mr W was satisfied with Gs fee structure 
before giving it formal  instructions. Although G falls outside my remit I can see that it 
appears to have been working behind the scenes on a number of issues and it was in 
contact with B solicitors  in mid August.
Ref: DRN46241983However, my role is to consider the actions of Curtis and I believe it took reasonable steps to 
chase up G and to push for progress. I also note that Mr W supplied some  of the information 
required by G directly  to B and so it took longer to reach G. The solicitor at G commented: It 
is highly  unusual that when solicitors are instructed the member  will provide information 
direct to the receiving scheme rather than through solicitors in the usual fashion.
Overall there are a number of contributory  factors  which  led to the whole process taking  over 
six months and while  I can understand Mr Ws frustration and his belief that Curtis was 
culpable for the delay  I dont consider I can say that its actions were unreasonable.
I have also noted  his concerns about  the handling of his complaint. Curtis didnt provide full 
reasons within  eight weeks and it wrote  to Mr W to apologise and to give him details of his 
rights to bring the matter to this service. While that was unfortunate I appreciate  that the 
transfer was still underway  at this point and Curtis was hesitant  to conclude its response. 
On balance I dont  consider  Curtis  need do more on this aspect over and above the apology 
it gave Mr W. 
In conclusion I dont  believe  that Curtis delayed matters unreasonably  and I dont consider it 
did so to maximise its income. It is regrettable that Mr W has incurred additional fees,  but I 
cannot direct  Curtis to refund  these. Of course it is open to Curtis  to forgo these, in part at 
least, as a goodwill gesture if it so chooses.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4624198