K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that she was mis-sold  a payment protection insurance, (PPI), policy.
Its been agreed that Financial Insurance Company Limited, (FICL), should accept
responsibility for the sale. For simplicity Ive referred  to FICL throughout my decision, 
although it didnt  actually sell the policy.
background
Mrs G took out a store card in 1999 A few weeks later PPI was added  to her account. But 
Mrs G says that she didnt ask for it or sign anything to say that she wanted it.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mrs G disagreed,
the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive followed this in making my decision in Mrs Gs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory, (as some of it is here), I 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is most likely to 
have happened, in the light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I explain  why below.
I think that Mrs G knew that the PPI was optional. I say this because Ive seen her signed 
store card application  form.  This has a section in it dealing with PPI. And I can see that it 
hasnt been signed, as would have been required had she wanted  to accept the insurance at 
that time.  Also it has a No written in the section. So PPI wasnt  added to her card account  
at that stage.
However, PPI was added  to Mrs Gs account two months after she applied  for her store 
card. FICL tells us that its records  say that she took it out during a phone  call. Mrs G says 
that she doesnt remember agreeing to take out the insurance over the phone.  And its 
possible that she didnt   Ive not been given a recording or notes about  such  a call. But as 
these events took place almost  20 years ago I dont think that it is reasonable to rely on 
Mrs Gs recollection  of what  took place. And as FICLs records show that the PPI was added 
to her account, on balance, Im satisfied that she probably changed her mind and decided  to 
take the policy over the phone. 
From what  I know about its usual sales process at that time, its likely  FICLs representative 
would have been told to get Mrs Gs specific consent before adding  the PPI. I think its 
unlikely FICL  would have added it without  having  got that first. And as shed had her store  
card for several weeks at that point,  I find that Mrs G would  have known that the PPI was 
optional.
Ref: DRN42446982FICL says that it didnt  recommend Mrs G to take the policy.  But she says that it did. I dont 
know which is correct. But, in fairness to Mrs G, I have decided the case  as if FICL had 
recommended it because it puts a greater responsibility on FICL. This is because  it would  
have needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it was suitable for her needs. Based on 
what I know about Mrs Gs circumstances and the terms  and conditions  of the policy  which, 
on balance, I think would  have applied at the time it was sold,  I find that it was suitable  
because:
Mrs G was eligible for the policy;
Mrs G says that she doesnt believe that the PPI would have paid out had she needed to 
make a claim. I dont  know  why she says this. As Ive said above she was eligible for it 
and also she wasnt caught  by any of the policys main  limitations  and restrictions - such 
as those affecting someone  who was self-employed or who had a pre-existing medical
condition;
The policy cost £1 a month for each £100  outstanding on Mrs Gs store  card account.
And Ive seen nothing  to suggest that these premiums were unaffordable  for her. In any 
event, as it was paid for monthly, Mrs G could have cancelled the policy  at any time 
without further  cost if she later found that she couldnt afford  it or no longer wanted it.
Mrs G has told us that she was entitled to some sick pay from her employer. And that 
she had some any savings or other insurance  to help her make her monthly store card
payments had she been off work.  Following  a successful claim the insurance would have
paid 15% of Mrs Gs store  card balance each month had she been unable  to work
because of accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. These  payments  would
have been made until shed paid off her balance or until shed returned to work,  if earlier.  
And would have been paid in addition to any sick or redundancy payments  from her 
employment, leaving those and any savings or other  insurance  pay outs available to help 
meet her other expenditure whilst she wasnt working. So I think that the PPI would have 
been of use to her.
Mrs G has told us that her family  would have helped her make her payments  if she had 
she been unable  to work.  As we explain on our website it is our usual approach to 
disregard possible financial help from friends  and family.  Ive seen nothing in this 
complaint to make me deviate from that. 
It may be that FICL  didnt give Mrs G all the details about the policy that it should have done 
so that she could make an informed  decision.  But from what Ive set out above I dont think 
that Mrs G would have  acted differently and decided not to take the PPI had she been given 
clearer information. So I find that she hasnt lost out because of anything that FICL may have 
done wrong during the sale.  Accordingly theres nothing that I require FICL to put right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Ref: DRN42446983Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4244698