K821x#15complaint
Miss A complains  that NewDay Ltd acted  irresponsibly in giving her a credit card and then 
frequently increasing its limit.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 13 May 2019. A copy of it is attached and it 
forms part of my final decision. The full background to the complaint is set out in my 
provisional decision and as such I wont repeat it here.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was planning to uphold  Miss As complaint and 
ask NewDay to refund some interest  and charges  with the addition  of 8% interest.  I asked 
Miss A and NewDay to let me know if there was anything else they wanted me to consider.
Miss A accepted  my findings.
NewDay said it received  its public information  records about customers  credit history from 
three information bureau. It said that with respect  to Miss A these did not include information  
suggesting that she had received a CCJ. It assumed that there must have been a data error  
at the county court. And even now NewDay said that two of the information bureau were  still 
not showing any CCJs against Miss A.
NewDay also pointed out that Miss A had incurred  a late payment charge some 5 months 
before it increased  her limit to £1,350. And although this would have been reflected in its 
internal scoring  system, this would  not of itself have been sufficient not to offer Miss A further 
increases to her credit limit.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDays main point  is that it couldnt be expected to take account of CCJs that it didnt 
know about. And it believes it gets its information  from enough sources to minimise  error, 
particularly about  something as serious  as a CCJ.
But the fact remains  that having given Miss A a credit card,  two further  CCJs and a default 
had been recorded against  her by the time NewDay increased her limit to £1,350.  And whilst 
I have taken account of NewDays comments that it didnt know about these, Miss A had in 
reality incurred them. 
There is an onus on NewDay as a responsible  lender  to ensure its systems are sufficiently 
robust to capture  customers  credit information  where this might  significantly affect  its 
lending decisions.  For whatever reason this doesnt  appear to have happened here. And so, 
having taken full account of NewDays comments,  I see no reason  to change my provisional 
findings. Im therefore  upholding  Miss As complaint for the same  reasons given in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold Miss As complaint against NewDay Ltd and require it to:
Ref: DRN44423842refund  all interest and charges it applied to Miss As account on any balance above  
£600 after it increased her card limit to £1,350;
pay Miss A simple  interest of 8% per year from the date the interest and charges 
were incurred  to the date of settlement.
NewDay should also provide Miss A with a full breakdown of how it calculated the redress.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44423843copy of provisional decision
complaint
Miss A complains  that NewDay  Ltd (trading as Aqua)  engaged  in irresponsible lending to
her.
background
Miss A received  her Aqua  credit card from NewDay in August 2012 with an initial  limit of
£250. The limits were then increased  as follows:
Jan 2013 - £600
Nov 2013 - £1,350
Jul 2014 - £2,400
Nov 2014 - £3,600
Apr 2015 - £4,700
Sept 2015 - £5,450
Mar 2016  - £6,950
There were  two county court judgements against Miss A in this period:  October 2012 for
around £400,  and May 2013 for more than £700. In August 2014 a default of over £1,700
was recorded on Miss As credit file. None  of these  involved  NewDay.
In 2016 NewDay  wrote  to Miss A saying  that if she wanted to continue  to use her card it
would charge  her a higher interest rate. Miss A declined  and closed  her account  with an
outstanding balance of around £6,900. With the help of family she has recently repaid that
balance in full.
In August 2018 Miss A complained to NewDay  that it should  have realised she was in
financial difficulty and not continued to increase her borrowing limit. She said she was stuck
in a spiral  of debt made worse by increases  to her credit  limit that she hadnt requested. She
said she had made frequent cash withdrawals around the repayment dates to afford those
repayments and to meet  her daily living  costs. Miss A asked for a refund of interest she had
paid from the date of the credit limit increase after her second CCJ in May 2013.
Following Miss As complaint NewDay reviewed its management of her account and its
lending decisions,  but concluded that it had acted responsibly throughout.
Miss A brought her complaint to us as she was dissatisfied with that response.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Miss As complaint be upheld.
He firstly considered if NewDays original decision to approve Miss As application  with a
limit of £250 was reasonable, and concluded that it was. Although  Miss As credit file showed
some previous relatively small  financial difficulties, our investigator  didnt believe these  to be
sufficiently worrying to refuse her application.
NewDays records  state that Miss A requested the first limit increase to £600,  although  she
cant recall  doing so. By then she had had another CCJ for a small  amount recorded against
her in October 2012. But she had otherwise been managing her NewDay account in line with
its terms and conditions.  Our investigators  view was NewDay couldnt therefore reasonably
be criticised for agreeing to this increase.
All subsequent increases  were proposed by NewDay,  although  Miss A had the option of
refusing them. Our investigator noted that Miss A generally managed  her account  well with
few over-limit and late payment fees.  He acknowledged that the May 2013 and August 2014
CCJs might have been seen as indicating  that Miss A was in financial difficulties, but as she
was maintaining repayments on her NewDay account it was not unreasonable that the
Ref: DRN44423844business continued to offer her increases. He noted  that Miss A didnt contact NewDay to
discuss her financial circumstances  nor did she refuse the increases.
In summary he considered  that as Miss A appeared to be managing her NewDay account in
an acceptable way, NewDay  couldnt reasonably be expected to know that she was
struggling financially  more  generally. Given this our investigator said he couldnt conclude
that NewDay had done anything wrong.
Miss A remained  dissatisfied with this view and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The UK cards  best practices for credit limit increases guidance says that card issuers
should take an active approach to ensure responsible lending. But there isnt a specific list
of checks  a lender should carry out when deciding  whether to give credit. That said,  I would
expect lenders to carry out checks proportionate to the amount of credit being offered.
Typical checks can include (but are not limited to) information from credit reference
agencies, establishing  customers  income  and outgoings, their credit history with the lender
and the lenders own internal  credit  scoring.
NewDay provides for customers who often have a less than perfect  credit history and who
might consequently struggle  to secure lending from major banks and other high-street
lenders. When Miss A applied to NewDay  her credit  file showed that she had previously
used payday loans and had had a CCJ and two defaults recorded against her. These were
for relatively small amounts,  and I consider  it reasonable  that NewDay should  have
approved her initial application with a modest credit limit. But I would have expected  Miss As
credit file to have alerted  NewDay to potential future problems with her finances and for it
therefore to have  been  particularly  careful in deciding  whether to increase  her borrowing
facility.
Although Miss A cannot recall applying  for an increase to £600 in December  2012,
NewDays records  suggest that she did. By which point she had incurred a CCJ in October
2012 and had had two cash advances totalling  £140 on her card that same month. But that
apart, she had managed her account well for the few months it had by then been open. I
dont know what checks if any NewDay carried  out before  agreeing  this increase,  but I would
hesitate to find it to be irresponsible lending at this stage.
But by November 2013, when NewDay increased Miss As limit to £1,350,  she had had
another CCJ recorded  against her  this time for over £700  and incurred some missed
payment charges and late payment fees on her account.  She then quickly spent up to this
new limit and then to the next limit of £2,400 offered  to her in July 2014. And it was in August
2014 that another  default  was recorded against her, this time for over £1,700,  and she
began using her card regularly for cash advances.
It is clear from Miss As history that she began to experience financial difficulties from a very
early stage after receiving her Aqua credit  card. And at the point that NewDay offered her an
increased limit of £1,350 she had incurred  two more CCJs. NewDay has said little about the
checks it carried out before deciding  to increase Miss As credit limit at that time,  but there
were distinct  signs that her financial situation had deteriorated. Looking at her statements I
note that she had made a late repayment in June 2013 - and was charged late payment  and
over limit fees - made no repayment in July and made only minimum repayments in
September, October and November. If NewDay  had carried out proportionate enquiries, I
think it likely it would have  seen that Miss A was facing challenges repaying  other lenders
and that she couldnt  afford the £1,350  credit  limit it intended to offer.
Ref: DRN44423845It follows that I think NewDay acted irresponsibly when it increased Miss As limit to £1,350
and so none  of the subsequent  increases should have been offered without proper checks.
I havent seen that it did this. So I think  it was irresponsible  of NewDay to continue  to
increase Miss As limit.
my provisional  decision
For these  reasons, but subject to both parties  responses  to this provisional decision,  Im
currently minded  to uphold Miss As complaint against NewDay. To resolve  matters Im
going to ask it to:
refund all interest and charges it applied to Miss As account  on any balance above£600 after 
it increased her card limit to £1,350;
pay Miss A simple interest of 8% per year from the date the interest and charges were 
incurred to the date of settlement.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4442384