K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Miss W says Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Miss Ws 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  And they said that, although BoS 
says it didnt do anything  wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made  an offer 
as if it had.
Miss Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ws. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Miss Ws 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. But in any event BoS has offered to pay back  some 
of the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more.  Ive summarised my 
reasons for each  of these conclusions below.  
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think BoS made it clear that Miss W didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to 
take it out. Ill explain why.
BoS provided a copy of the application form Miss W completed at the time of sale. Within 
this application  form I can see there  is a separate section  for PPI and the applicant is 
asked to select what additional cover they would like. On Miss Ws form a tick has been 
placed next to credit  card repayments  cover.  Miss W says she was sold the PPI by post 
Ref: DRN42764162but BoS says the PPI was sold in a meeting. Looking at the information available  I think  it 
was arranged during a meeting. I dont  know what was discussed at the time Miss W 
took out the card, but I wouldve expected Miss W to read over the form and to have had 
an opportunity to raise  any questions  she had at the time before signing  it. Taking  
everything into account, I think its more likely that Miss W knew  the policy was optional  
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
BoS didnt  recommend  the PPI to Miss W - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was 
right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Miss W enough clear and timely 
information so she could decide  for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Miss W  for example she 
wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover.  Miss W has also 
referred to her employee benefits at the time and savings, saying these mean  she didnt 
have a need for the PPI. The policy wouldve paid out alongside  any sick pay or 
redundancy pay Miss W received, and it wouldve allowed her to preserve her savings. 
The PPI also wasnt too dissimilar to what Miss W reasonably thought  she was buying  
from the information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would  have been useful for her if something  went wrong. Because  of this I dont think  
Miss W would have  declined the cover  had BoS done anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Miss Ws circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think  she 
would have still thought she had some  good  reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Miss W would have still taken out PPI. The policy  was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  she thought she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Miss Ws representative has raised  a number  of what  I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Miss Ws representative has not said how these points apply to the specific  facts  and 
circumstances of Miss Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ws particular case.  But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss W.
Ref: DRN42764163non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but in 
any event BoS has offered  to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it 
needs to do. My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Miss Ws representative has made  a number  of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary  they have  said Miss W should  get back all the money  she paid for the policy  
because: BoS failed  to tell BoS about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value,  I should  find that Miss W wouldnt have taken out the policy had 
they known about the level of commission and she should receive  a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for Miss Ws PPI was less than half of 
what she paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how BoS has worked this out and based 
on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Miss Ws case was less than half 
the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BoS needed  to tell Miss W about  the commission. So it follows  that I dont think  
the non-disclosure created an unfair  relationship - I dont think BoS treated Miss W unfairly. 
This means  BoS doesnt  need to pay Miss W back any of the commission  she paid for the 
PPI. 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN42764164But in any event BoS has offered to give back to Miss W some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate BoS as if it had treated her unfairly.  So I dont think  it needs to do anything 
more.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Miss Ws complaint or make  any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank  of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission  
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Miss W paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland Plc has offered  to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss W. 
Bank of Scotland Plc should now make arrangements to pay Miss W if it hasnt done so 
already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October  2021.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4276416