K821x#15complaint
Mr T is complaining about IMC Financial Services Ltd (IMC) because  he says it didnt  give 
him appropriate advice when he arranged  a life and critical  illness insurance policy to cover 
his new mortgage  in 2013. Because  of existing health problems that led to some  aspects  of 
cover being  excluded from his new policy, Mr T says he should have been advised to keep 
his existing policy and arrange top up cover for the additional borrowing. Instead,  he 
cancelled his first policy  and took a new one covering the full amount of his new mortgage.
background
In 2010, Mr T took a life and critical illness insurance policy with PruProtect (now Vitality  Life) 
to cover his mortgage.  It started in December 2010  and provided  cover (starting at 
£160,000) that decreased  each  year through the term of 25 years.  The policy  started on 23 
December 2010,  cost £25.22 per month, and didnt have special conditions or exclusions.
In 2013/14, Mr T increased his mortgage  borrowing to £300,000 over a fresh  term of 25 
years. Following discussions with an adviser representing IMC, he took a new decreasing  
life and critical illness policy (also  with Vitality) providing cover starting at £300,000 for a term 
of 25 years.  The original  quote estimated this would cost £54.97  per month  on normal  terms.
By the time the policy started on 24 January 2014,  and as a result of health issues  Mr T 
disclosed in his application, the cost of life cover was rated, increasing the monthly premium  
to £65.64. Also, a special  exclusion was added to the critical illness  cover, which  said:
No Serious Illness Cover  will be payable under this Plan for any illness  or incapacity  
arising directly or indirectly from: 
- Any disease  or disorder  of the urogenital tract or kidney or any complications  
thereof.
The policy continued  despite these changes and replaced Mr Ts original 2010 policy, which  
Vitality has confirmed was cancelled in January 2014.
I issued my first provisional  decision, an extract of which is attached, on 17 December 2018.  
This set out the reasons I was proposing to uphold the complaint and some initial  thoughts 
on how IMC should put things right.  IMC responded to say it didnt agree with my provisional 
decision, but made an offer of £35,000 to settle the complaint.
I issued my second provisional decision,  an extract of which  is also attached on 1 February 
2019. I addressed  the concerns IMC had raised about my decision to uphold the complaint. I 
also said I felt, based on the medical  evidence available at the time, that its offer seemed 
fair.
IMC said it accepted the outcome proposed in my second provisional decision, but also 
made the following key points:
How can Mr T, years  later and with the benefit of hindsight,  pursue a claim against
any of the parties  involved in the decision-making when he had the ability and
time to make  a fully informed decision but chose  to ignore the advice provided?
Ref: DRN44046492The adviser, the product provider, the GP and most importantly, the customer  are all 
involved in the decision-making process  and its unfair that Im proceeding in the way 
I am. IMCs role was to provide advice, not make  decisions for Mr T. The original 
advice was suitable based on what was known at the time the application was made. 
The adviser also discussed the different options with Mr T after Vitality  applied the 
exclusion. Mr T has disputed this because it suits his complaint, which has been  
brought solely with the benefit  of hindsight. 
Once Vitality decided to amend the terms of the policy, it wrote  to Mr T with details 
and suggested  he speak to his GP. Mr T failed to do so, despite IMC advising him to 
and having 71 days before the policy started to do so. At best this was irresponsible.  
For confidentiality reasons, the adviser  couldnt  contact his GP to discuss  his 
condition directly,  so responsibility  should  rest with Mr T in this situation.
There are a number of points where Ive taken Mr Ts side in interpreting the facts or 
where theres no written  evidence. If I choose to change  my decision  or find further in 
Mr Ts favour,  it planned to request an oral hearing  of the case so it has the 
opportunity to question  Mr T and highlight the inconsistencies in his position.
This is an incorrect decision  that could have serious  repercussions in the future, 
every time a customer dislikes a decision they previously made. Ive shown an 
extremely unjustified level of deference to Mr T, at the expense  of honest 
professionals.
Mr T didnt  accept my second  provisional  decision and obtained a report from a consultant 
nephrologist, Professor C, to support his view that the compensation payment should be 
higher.
After reviewing Professor Cs report,  I felt it indicated Mr Ts condition is deteriorating more 
quickly and hes likely  to reach the point where  he would have been able to claim on his 
2010 policy much  sooner  than previously suggested. As a result, I wrote to IMC (with a copy 
to Mr T) on 14 March 2019  setting  out a different  proposal for resolving the complaint. An 
extract from this email  is attached. 
In summary,  I proposed  IMC place money  equivalent to the current  critical illness  benefit  on 
the 2010 policy - if it was still in force - into an escrow account or similar arrangement 
overseen by an independent third party. That third party would then be able to pay the 
appropriate amount  to Mr T if and when he reaches the point where  he would have been 
able to successfully  claim on the 2010  policy for something that isnt cover by the policy that 
replaced it in 2014. Any money that isnt claimed by Mr T could then be repaid to IMC in line 
with the reductions  in the policy sum assured and at the end of the term if applicable.
I also provided IMC with details of the procedure for oral hearings. I invited it to request a 
hearing if it wanted to and to explain why it felt this would be beneficial and the issues it 
would want to raise, so I could consider whether its appropriate to hold one.
IMC responded to say it no longer wishes to pursue an oral hearing due to the further delay 
and inconvenience  this would cause Mr T. It said it had considered my suggestion  of an 
escrow account, but foresees a number  of practical  impediments, in particular finding  a 
suitable custodian  and then agreeing the complexities of the arrangement  to determine who 
receives what and when, and also the onerous  administrative  costs.
Ref: DRN44046493IMC said it would prefer to agree a lump sum settlement now and is now willing to offer Mr T 
£50,000. If he doesnt accept this, I should make a final decision essentially saying IMC will 
pay out if he reaches  the point where he would have been  able to claim on the 2010 policy 
for something hes not now covered  for, provided  the 2014  policy  is maintained. IMC 
confirmed the claim  has been  notified  to and acknowledged by its professional  indemnity (PI) 
insurer, meaning the decision would be enforceable against it in the event IMC is no longer  
trading at the time.
Mr T said he felt my latest proposals  were fair and the he didnt accept IMCs increased offer 
of £50,000.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, it remains my view the 
complaint should  be upheld  for essentially the reasons Ive outlined previously.
I accept that the advice  Mr T received from IMC was suitable up to the point the application 
was made  at the end of 2013  and Vitality made the decision to apply an exclusion to the new 
policy. This is the point  at which  I think Mr T should  have reassessed  the advice and 
considered the other options  available.  I accept the adviser didnt have full details of Mr Ts 
health problems.  But he knew  from the application  that he was having tests  for issues that 
could involve his kidneys and from the exclusion, he also knew Vitality thought  this was 
potentially serious  enough it didnt want to provide  cover.  That should have been enough to 
prompt further discussion. IMC doesnt  appear to dispute this.
While IMC hasnt  been able to provide any documentary evidence  to support the advisers 
recollection, I am conscious  he says he did contact Mr T to discuss  his options, including  
keeping the 2010 policy. But Mr T disputes this. In a situation where  the evidence is 
contradictory, I need to base  my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened.
The ideal outcome in 2014 would have been for Mr T to end up with a policy with no 
exclusion or rating and that covered him for the full term of his mortgage. This wasnt 
possible because of his health, so there was a choice to make.  Either he could have full 
cover, including for health problems hed developed  since 2010, for some  of his mortgage  
and a potential  shortfall in the last three years. Or he could have partial cover,  with claims 
resulting from his existing  health issues excluded, for the full term of his mortgage.
If the adviser  had discussed the options  in this way, I think  Mr T would have  chosen  to 
continue his original  policy  and arrange  a top-up  for the increased amount of his new 
mortgage. I say this because he had a potentially serious kidney problem, as confirmed in 
Vitalitys letter to his GP, and the policy still had 22 years to run. I think  the prospect of being  
covered if this condition  deteriorated would have been more pressing than the desire  to have 
cover for the last three years of his new mortgage, a potential problem that wouldnt arise for 
another 22 years, and when the outstanding balance  would have  been  expected  to have 
decreased significantly.
On balance, and taking everything into account,  I still think  its more likely  the adviser didnt 
discuss the possibility  of Mr T keeping his original policy. If he had done, I think thats the 
option he would most  likely have chosen.
Ref: DRN44046494The letter Mr T received from Vitality dated 15 October 2013  told him his policy  had been 
offered on special  terms and said:
We have written to your GP to explain the reason  for our decision. Please contact 
your GP to discuss this further.
So I dont  think it implied the urgency IMC is now trying to suggest  and it certainly  didnt say 
he should contact  his GP as soon as possible as it said in its letter  of 1 March 2019.  
Its unfortunate Mr T didnt  contact  his GP at the time. But that doesnt change  the fact he 
was receiving advice  and the adviser  should have discussed his options  with him once the 
situation changed. If the adviser felt Mr T should  speak to his doctor urgently so he could 
make an informed decision, he should have  told him that. But no evidence  has been 
provided from the time to show he did.
I note IMCs comments  about the complaint  being  made with the benefit  of hindsight. But the 
key issue with hindsight  is that I mustnt rely on it when  making  my decision and Im satisfied 
I havent. My view that the advice given to Mr T wasnt  suitable is based on information that 
was available  to the adviser  at the time.
I dont think this decision has wider  consequences in the way IMC has suggested. Each  
complaint has to be assessed  on its own merits and this decision isnt intended as any sort 
of precedent for other  complaints we may receive in future. If I felt the evidence 
demonstrated the adviser had given suitable  advice,  which would have  involved  
reconsidering his original recommendation after Vitalitys underwriting  decision and 
discussing Mr Ts options with him so he could make an informed decision about how to 
proceed, the outcome  would likely  be very different. 
putting things right
The aim of any award I make is to put Mr T in the position hed be in if hed received suitable  
advice in 2013/14. In this case, I think he would have opted  to continue with his 2010 policy 
and take a second policy for the difference between the cover  it provided and the amount  of 
his new mortgage.  As discussed before, its now not possible to set up policies on these 
terms because of his health. Since Mr T has rejected IMCs offer of a cash  sum to settle the 
complaint now, Im looking to find a practical  alternative that makes  sure he receives  any 
money he may have  become entitled  to on his 2010 policy at the correct time.
I thank IMC for the comments in its most recent  letter of 31 March 2019. But after serious 
consideration, I dont  think the alternative  suggestion made is appropriate in the 
circumstances. This is because I cant be certain IMC will still be trading and in a position to 
pay out if and when Mr T needs  to claim.  I note what its said about its PI insurer.  But the 
ombudsman service doesnt have jurisdiction over that business and we wouldnt be able to 
do anything to ensure  it met Mr Ts claim should that become necessary in future. Further,  
my decision  is only enforceable against  IMC. While Im sure this proposal was made  with the 
best of intentions, I can foresee that its application could prove  problematic for Mr T at a time 
when he will presumably be seriously  unwell.
On balance, I still believe the best way to resolve  this complaint is for IMC to pay an amount 
equal to the current sum assured on Mr Ts 2010  policy (if it was still in force)  into an escrow 
account or similar custody arrangement. This would mean an independent third party held 
the money and paid Mr T at the correct point in the future if certain conditions  are met.
Ref: DRN44046495I believe the escrow account  or similar custody  arrangement should be set up on the 
following terms:
With money to be paid to Mr T if and when his kidney condition  deteriorates to the 
point where he would have been able to claim on the 2010 policy. This would be 
determined by Vitality as it has offered to do, and the amount payable would be equal 
to what Vitality would  have paid on that policy. Id only expect  this arrangement  to 
pay out for a critical illness claim thats excluded by Mr Ts new policy  but that would 
have been covered  under  the 2010  policy.
The 2010 policy had a decreasing sum assured, so the amount Mr T would have 
been able to claim will decrease  over time. To account for this, the arrangement  
could be set up to facilitate a payment back to IMC each time the sum assured would 
have decreased, equal to the amount it would have decreased by. That way the third 
party would never be holding more money than it would need to pay Mr T if he 
qualified for the full benefit.
If theres money remaining with the third party when the policy would have ended  
(either at the end of the term in 2035 or on his earlier death) and theres no 
outstanding claim, the remaining money deposited with the third party should be 
returned to IMC in full.
The 2010 policy was a severity-based plan, so claims dont automatically lead to 
payment of the entire sum assured. To accommodate this, the arrangement  should  
be set up to only pay the part of the sum assured  Mr T would have been eligible to 
receive. In the event  of a partial claim,  the policy was structured so the remaining 
sum assured  would be retained to be paid in the event of a future claim. To replicate  
this situation,  in the case of a partial  claim the third party would simply need to retain  
any money not paid to Mr T. The balance would either then become payable  if his 
kidney condition deteriorates further  leading to another claimable event,  or be 
returned to IMC when  the policy would have ended.
IMC would be entitled to any interest payments due on the money held by the 
independent third party.
It would be for IMC to pay all costs involved in setting up and administering the escrow 
account or similar arrangement.
Im not recommending  a particular third party to run the escrow account or similar  
arrangement, but clearly  that party needs to be entirely independent  from IMC and Mr T. 
Preliminary searches  show there  are a number of companies offering escrow accounts  in the 
UK and that at least some of these  are registered with the Financial Conduct Authority. I 
think the third party  used should  be appropriately  authorised to provide security for both IMC 
and Mr T.
For this type of arrangement to work effectively, it will be helpful to obtain  assistance from 
Vitality. Both to confirm how the sum assured would reduce  to determine the amount of any 
payments IMC will be entitled to reclaim from the third party over time. Also, to assess  a 
hypothetical future claim and confirm  whether  it would have been paid if the 2010  policy  was 
still in place and what proportion of the sum assured would have been  due. Fortunately,  
Ref: DRN44046496Vitality has confirmed its willing to assist with this. If things  change and it ultimately proves  
unwilling or unable  to do that, we may be able to help further at the time.
This is the best solution I can currently think of that will mean Mr T isnt disadvantaged and 
that IMC doesnt pay more than it needs to. As a result I think it represents a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
additional compensation
As Ive set out previously,  I also think  IMC should:
compensate Mr T for the fact hes been overpaying by £5.08 per month  by refunding  
each monthly overpayment in full between  the date the 2014 policy  started and the 
date compensation  is paid.  It should add simple  interest at 8% per year to each 
amount being  refunded from the date of the overpayment to the date compensation 
is paid. Income tax may be payable on the interest; and
pay an additional sum of £750  to compensate Mr T for the significant and 
unnecessary trouble  and upset hes been caused  at an already difficult  time.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Mr T accepts my decision,  IMC Financial Services Ltd must put things right using the 
method set out above. It should  make sure it engages positively with Mr T in arranging  the 
escrow account or similar custody arrangement and make sure he has full details so he can 
check its set up on the terms  Ive proposed and knows who he needs to contact to make a 
claim in future.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44046497extract from email dated 14 March 2019:
As you seem to be already aware, Mr T rejected  my provisional decision and made  further 
submissions. Ive enclosed this information for your reference, which  includes:
an email  from Mr T dated 5 February;
a further  email dated 22 February; and
the attached report from a consultant nephrologist  he recently consulted, Professor C, dated 
20 February.
Ive noted the comments in your recent letter, but it remains my view the complaint should be upheld 
for the reasons Ive explained previously. I will specifically  address your latest comments  and any 
further submissions  you wish to make  subsequently, most  likely in my final decision.
The purpose  of this letter  is to propose an alternative method for resolving the complaint.  I felt the 
solution I recently proposed  was broadly fair based on the information I had at the time.  But after 
reading Professor Cs report, it seems a situation where  Mr T would likely to be able to claim on his 
originally policy if it was still in force is now more likely and imminent than the medical evidence  that 
was submitted previously suggested.  Professor Cs comments actually indicate  a claimable event is 
quite likely at some point in 2020, at which time the sum assured  on the policy  would have been in 
excess of £120,000.
With this information in mind, I now feel a settlement figure of £35,000 is likely to prove inadequate  
and Ive given the matter further thought. The ideal  solution here is one that makes sure Mr T receives 
all money he would have been entitled to on his original policy at the correct time. I think  the following  
alternative could effectively achieve that.
My proposal  is for IMC to pay amount  equal to the current sum assured on Mr Ts 2010 policy if it was 
still in force. According  to the figures Vitality  provided previously, that would be somewhere in the 
region of £130,000. But rather than pay that direct to Mr T, to instead pay it into an escrow account or 
similar arrangement.  An escrow account is essentially an arrangement  where an independent  third 
party holds money on behalf of the donor (IMC in this case) to be paid to the recipient (Mr T) in the 
future when certain  conditions are met.
In this case, an agreement could presumably be set up so the third party paid the money  to Mr T if 
and when his kidney condition  deteriorates to the point where he would  have been able to claim on 
the original  policy. If this doesnt happen before  the policy  would  have ended  (either at the end of the 
term in 2035 or on his earlier  death), the money deposited with the third party would be returned to 
IMC.
Im conscious  the 2010 policy had a decreasing sum assured so the amount  Mr T would have been 
able to claim  will decrease over time. To account for this, it would make sense for the escrow or 
similar arrangement to facilitate a payment back  to IMC each  time the sum assured  would  have 
decreased, equal to the amount it would have decreased  by. That way the third party would never be 
holding more money  than it would need to pay Mr T if he qualified for the full benefit.
Im also conscious the 2010 policy was a severity-based  plan so all claims dont lead to payment of 
the entire sum assured. To accommodate this, the arrangement would need to be set up to only pay 
out the amount  Mr T would have been eligible to receive.  If he does qualify for part of the sum 
assured, the policy was structured so the remaining balance would  be retained to be paid in the event 
of a future valid claim. To replicate this situation,  in the case  of a partial claim the third party  would 
simply need to retain any money  not paid to Mr T. The balance would either then become payable if 
his kidney condition deteriorates further leading to another claimable event, or be returned to IMC 
when the policy would have ended.
To be clear,  Id only expect this arrangement to pay out for a critical illness claim  thats excluded by 
Mr Ts new policy but that would have been covered under the 2010 policy. As far as I can see, hes 
Ref: DRN44046498covered for broadly the same other illnesses  under the replacement policy he took in 2014. By way of 
a reminder, the exclusion in the replacement  policy  read as follows:
No Serious Illness Cover will be payable  under this Plan for any illness or incapacity  arising 
directly or indirectly from:
- Any disease or disorder  of the urogenital tract or kidney or any complications
thereof.
Its my understanding that escrow account holders sometimes  pay interest on money  they hold for the 
parties and Im satisfied  IMC would be entitled to any and all such interest payments in this case.
For this type of arrangement to work effectively, it will be necessary to obtain assistance from Vitality. 
Both to confirm how the sum assured would  reduce to determine  the amount  of any payments  IMC 
will be entitled  to reclaim from the third party over time. Also, to assess a hypothetical future claim and 
confirm whether it would have been paid if the 2010 policy  was still in place and what  proportion  of the 
sum assured  would have been  due. Fortunately, Vitality has confirmed its willing  to assist  with this.
Its not my place to recommend a particular third party to administer the escrow account or similar 
arrangement. But preliminary internet  searches show there are a number of companies offering this 
service in the UK and that at least some of these  are registered  with the Financial  Conduct Authority. I 
think it would be correct  to use an appropriately authorised third party to provide security for both IMC 
and Mr T.
I assume there would be a cost for setting up and administering the kind of arrangement Im talking 
about. If so, I think its reasonable  to expect that cost to be paid in full by IMC.
As Ive said before, Im happy to consider  any alternative proposals the parties  put forward.  Im also 
particularly interested to hear if IMC anticipates it wont be possible  to set up an arrangement on the 
terms Ive described. And of course the reasons  it thinks that.
This is the best solution I can currently think of that will mean Mr T isnt disadvantaged  and that IMC 
doesnt pay more than it needs  to. Subject to any further submissions I receive,  this is what Im 
currently planning to tell IMC it needs to do when I issue my final decision.
Im conscious  that if a claim was paid through an escrow account in the way Ive described, Mr T will 
still have life and critical illness cover for his whole mortgage under the policy he took in 2014 and 
may ultimately be able to claim more than he would  have  done if hed kept his original policy and only 
taken top-up cover.  But I cant currently think of a sensible way to account for that fully. That said, I 
think limiting  an escrow account to pay out only for conditions that were excluded in 2014  minimises 
the risk of that situation  occurring. And assuming Mr T continues  paying premiums for his 2014 policy, 
he will actually be paying the premiums required to entitle him to a future  benefit.
In my previous provisional decision, I recommended additional compensation for the additional  
premiums Mr T has paid because  he took a new policy plus an additional £750  for his trouble and 
upset. My views  on these  issues havent changed  and I currently  anticipate  also telling  IMC to pay 
these amounts in my final decision.
Finally, I note your most recent letter also refers to the possibility of requesting  an oral hearing  if Im 
minded to change the outcome Ive proposed previously.  Its ultimately for me to decide whether a 
hearing is appropriate in this case and Ive attached  a leaflet explaining more about  the process. If, 
after reading  my comments above, you wish to request a hearing you should let us know that as soon 
as possible. So I can consider the merits of such a request, Id also ask that you please explain:
Ref: DRN44046499why you believe a hearing  would  be beneficial; and
the particular issues you feel should be explored  at a hearing.
To summarise, my current plan is to issue a final decision upholding the complaint for the reasons Ive 
previously explained and that requires  IMC to resolve it on the terms Ive set out in this letter. If you 
have any further comments on this, including alternative suggestions or reasons  why you think what 
Im proposing wont be achievable, please let me know so I can consider things further. Please  also 
let me know as soon as possible if you would like to request a hearing as that would  need to take 
place before  I issue a final decision.
I would be grateful  if you could please let the investigator, Tony  Hall, have any further comments, 
including a hearing request if appropriate, by 12 April 2019 at the latest. If we havent heard  anything  
from you by that date,  I may take that to mean you have nothing  further to add and proceed to issue 
my final decision. If you wont be able to reply by this date, please contact Tony  as soon as possible 
to explain the reasons and we can consider whether an extension is appropriate.
Ref: DRN440464910extract from second  provisional decision dated  1 February 2019:
I previously issued my first provisional  decision explaining why I thought this complaint should  be 
upheld and invited both parties  to make suggestions  on how it should be resolved. An extract is 
attached and forms  part of this decision.
IMC didnt agree with my view the complaint should be upheld and made  the following key points:
It doesnt  agree the advantages of Mr T keeping his original policy  and arranging  a top-up 
outweigh the disadvantages of replacing  it with a new policy covering the full mortgage 
amount. It points out that selecting  that option would  have  meant he wouldnt have been 
covered for the final three years of his mortgage.
It thinks the complaint has been made with the benefit of hindsight. It says the adviser  
discussed the options  with Mr T so he was able to make an informed decision and he had 
some time to consider his options.  He also had the opportunity to talk to his GP about the 
reasons for the exclusion applied to his policy and I havent  commented on this.
Nevertheless, IMC said its willing to offer Mr T £35,000 to settle the complaint.  It thinks this is 
reasonable given the lack of certainty in Dr Bs latest comments  about when  a claim might be 
necessary and about the exact  condition  to be claimed  for, and therefore  the percentage  of the policy 
benefit that could be due.
Mr T has now seen this offer and didnt accept it. He says his kidney function  is continuing to 
deteriorate and that medication hasnt helped. He thinks hell need a kidney transplant by 2021 at the 
latest and that IMC should pay him £120,000, based on the benefit  that would have been payable on 
his original  policy in that year.
my provisional  findings
I note IMC doesnt agree  with my reasons for upholding  this complaint. It doesnt seem  to dispute  my 
view the adviser should have reconsidered his advice after Vitality  decided to offer cover  on non-
standard terms. The adviser says he did discuss the option of Mr T keeping his original policy but, as 
Ive explained before, Mr T disputes this and I havent seen  any documentary  or other evidence to 
support the advisers account.
The ideal outcome for Mr T in 2014 would  have been that he ended  up with a policy  with no exclusion 
or rating  that covered him for the full term of his mortgage. This wasnt possible because  of his health, 
so a choice had to be made. He could either have full cover, including for health problems hed 
developed since 2010, for some of his mortgage and a potential shortfall in the last three years. Or he 
could have partial  cover,  with claims  resulting from his existing health issues excluded, for the full 
term of his mortgage.
If the adviser had discussed the options in this way, I dont think Mr T would  have chosen to cancel 
his original  policy. I say this because  he had a potentially serious kidney problem, as confirmed in 
Vitalitys letter to his GP, and the policy  still had 22 years to run. I think the prospect of being covered 
if this condition deteriorated  would have been more pressing than the desire to have cover for the last 
three years of his new mortgage,  a potential problem  that wouldnt arise  for another  22 years.
Mr T has told us he didnt  discuss Vitalitys underwriting decision  with his doctor and with the benefit  
of hindsight, it might have  been better if he had. But that doesnt change the fact he was receiving 
advice and the adviser should have discussed his options with him. If the adviser felt Mr T should  
speak to his doctor so he could make an informed decision, he could  have suggested that. But Ive 
seen nothing  to indicate  he did.
Ref: DRN440464911On balance, taking account  of all the evidence and other submissions received,  it remains  my view 
the complaint should be upheld.  The remainder of this provisional decision will now focus on how I 
think IMC should put things  right.
putting things  right
The principal aim of any award  I make is to put Mr T back into the position hed be in if hed received 
appropriate advice. The circumstances  of this case mean its probably not going to be possible to 
achieve this as Vitality wont allow Mr T to reinstate the cancelled policy. 
For the reasons  I explained previously, I think the best way to resolve this is for IMC to pay a lump  
sum now thats designed to compensate Mr T for the fact he wont have cover on the terms he should 
have and for the additional  worry that causes. Its possible any award on this basis could over or 
under-compensate Mr T. That depends on whether he develops a condition  that would have been 
covered by the 2010 policy  before it was due to end in 2035, although  the latest information  from his 
nephrologist does indicate  this is likely,  and the benefit that would  have been left on the policy at that 
time. 
Mr T believes hed have  been making a claim by 2021 at the latest and that settlement should be 
based on the benefit his original  policy  would  have  paid at this time.  But after reviewing Dr Bs 
comments, I note she only says its likely  hell need a transplant or dialysis in the future.  She also 
says its difficult to say when  that might happen,  but that this could be within  the next few years. As 
his treating specialist, I think Dr B is in the best position  to comment on Mr Ts condition and I think 
her prognosis  is more positive  than his. Given the apparent lack of certainty about how his condition  
will develop and when  a claim might  be payable, I dont  think it would be fair for me to base a 
settlement on the 2021 benefit.
Even if we did know the date when  Mr T is likely to develop a claimable condition,  I dont think  the 
answer is necessarily as simple as awarding  the amount his original policy would have  paid in that 
year. There are a number of other  factors I also need to take into account and that would  have the 
effect of reducing the compensation due. These include:
The cover  provided by the policy  was severity based. That means  the amount of the benefit 
paid for a condition depends  on its severity and for many  illnesses it pays out less than 100%. 
In the context  of this complaint, this includes acute renal dialysis for example, which  qualifies 
for a 25% payout.
Because Mr T cancelled the policy  and took a new one, hell still have full cover for the full 
amount of his mortgage.  So if he develops  another condition thats covered  by his new policy, 
hell receive a much higher payout  than he would  have done  if hed kept his original policy 
and taken  a top-up  for the shortfall  in 2013/14. 
Mr T will also still have full cover for the full mortgage term, including  the last three years.  He 
wouldnt have had that if hed kept the original policy and arranged a top-up.
Mr T will be receiving payment in advance of when  he might  otherwise qualify for it and will 
have the use of that money in the meantime.  For example, it could be used  to reduce his 
outstanding mortgage, thereby saving  interest payments,  or invested to generate  a return. 
These are not the only options  and Mr T should consider taking financial advice before 
deciding what to do if he accepts  my award.
I think  it bears repeating  that its not possible to know the extent  of any loss Mr T might suffer  as a 
result of the shortcomings in the advice  he received. So it could turn out in the future  that any award I 
make ends up either over or under-compensating him. But in view of Dr Bs comments, and taking 
account of the other factors Ive listed above, I think  the £35,000  IMC has offered is broadly fair based 
on the information thats currently available.
Ref: DRN440464912additional compensation
In my first provisional decision, I also set out that I think additional compensation  is due. IMC hasnt 
commented directly on these  issues and I still think the following amounts should  be paid.
To compensate Mr T for the fact hes been overpaying by £5.08 per month, IMC should  refund each 
monthly overpayment in full between  the date the 2014 policy started and the date compensation is 
paid. To compensate Mr T for not having the use of this money in the interim, it should  add simple 
interest at 8% per year to each overpayment from the date it was paid to the date compensation  is 
paid. Income  tax may be payable on the interest.
To compensate Mr T for the substantial unnecessary trouble and upset  hes been caused, IMC should 
pay an additional sum of £750.
finally
I appreciate neither party  will be totally satisfied with the outcome  Ive proposed. While I currently 
think its fair for the reasons Ive explained, I am of course happy to consider any further comments  or 
evidence the parties wish to provide before I make my final decision.
I note Mr T recently asked about whether he should  be seeking  legal advice at this stage. To clarify, 
my final decision - when its issued - will only become  binding if he accepts it. If he chooses not to 
accept it, hes free to pursue his complaint  by any other means, including  through the courts.  Its 
unlikely hell be able accept my decision and then go to court  seeking  further redress. So he may 
want to consider getting independent legal  advice before deciding whether to accept my decision.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint. I currently think IMC Financial 
Services Ltd should pay Mr T £35,000 plus additional compensation for his overpayments  to date, 
calculated as Ive set out above, and a further  £750 for his trouble and upset.
Ref: DRN440464913extract from first provisional decision dated 17 December 2018:
my provisional  findings
When Mr T first discussed  his requirements  with the adviser and according to IMC, it was assumed a 
new policy application would be accepted on standard terms. Based on that assumption, I think  it was 
reasonable to recommend  he cancel his existing  policy  and replace it. This ensured he had cover for 
the full amount of his mortgage for the full term. To have recommended keeping  his existing policy 
and taking a top-up  plan for the difference would have meant Mr T didnt have cover for the full 
amount in the last three years.
But once Vitality  had considered the application, the terms of the deal changed. Vitality wrote to Mr 
Ts GP on 15 November 2013 to say the policy had been offered on special terms due to 
Glomerulonephritis. This is a potentially serious kidney  problem that can be associated with serious 
conditions, including chronic kidney disease. The fact Vitality felt it was necessary to exclude  critical 
illness claims relating  to kidney issues  and charge  a higher premium for life cover indicates  it felt it 
was something  that at least had the potential  to become much more serious.
I realise IMCs adviser didnt see Vitalitys letter to Mr Ts GP and only knew what had been disclosed 
in the application  that hed had protein in his urine and the last time that had occurred  was three 
months earlier. But he would  have  been  aware the terms of the deal had changed  and I would have 
expected him to reconsider the merits of the original  advice at that point. It seems clear from his 
statements and the other evidence provided that the adviser contacted  Mr T to discuss the terms on 
which cover  was now being  offered. But contrary to IMCs  view,  I dont think the evidence supports 
the advisers recollection, which is disputed by Mr T, that he discussed  the possibility  of keeping  the 
original policy (issued on standard terms) and topping it up with a new one for the additional amount 
of the new borrowing  only.
The advantage of changing to this approach would be that Mr T had full critical illness cover for at 
least part of his mortgage  and only paid a loaded  premium for part of his life cover. I think the adviser  
should have discussed this option with Mr T in those terms. I dont think  the fact he didnt have full 
details of Mr Ts medical issues should have stopped him considering this option and he could have 
advised Mr T to contact his GP for more information  to help him make an informed decision.  But given 
Mr T had a condition that could become  more serious  and lead to a claim, I think its most  likely he 
would have opted to keep his original policy if his options had been  discussed and hed been in a 
position to make an informed  decision.
IMC and its adviser have put forward various  suggestions about why Mr T might  have felt it was better 
to follow the original advice and replace  his policy even  after Vitality had made its underwriting  
decision, but I dont find these persuasive.
First, I accept the option Ive said should have  been  discussed would have  meant Mr T didnt have 
cover for the final three years of his new mortgage.  But given he had a repayment mortgage and 
decreasing cover, the amount of any shortfall in those final three years would have been very low 
compared to the starting amount of the mortgage. If hed been able to make an informed decision, I 
dont think this potential advantage of sticking to the original advice  would have outweighed the 
potential disadvantage of giving up a policy that covered  his existing  health issues.
Second, IMC has suggested  Mr T made his decision partly on price.  This appears  to be based on the 
assumption that the new policy, even after the premium was increased, was less than it would have 
cost to continue with the 2010 policy and arrange  a top-up. But according  to information we requested 
from Vitality this assumption isnt correct.
Vitality has said the amount  of cover  left on the 2010  policy when the second policy  started  in 2014 
was £151,617.  That means a top-up policy  would  have been  needed for £148,383  and, taking 
account of the loading that would have applied,  Vitality says the premium for a policy providing this 
amount of cover would have been £35.34.  When added to the 2010 policy premium, that would have  
Ref: DRN440464914meant Mr T paying a total monthly premium of £60.56  less than the £65.64 he ended  up paying. So 
if price was a factor as IMC suggests,  that would have been another reason  for him not to follow  the 
advisers original  recommendation.
Third, the adviser  recalls the decision not to continue with the 2010  policy and top it up was partly  
motivated by Mr T being happy with paying just one premium.  In the context of the decision that 
needed to be made, I dont think the advantages of paying one direct debit rather  than two would  
have been a particularly important factor.
In conclusion, the evidence  shows the adviser and Mr T were aware the policy wasnt offered on 
standard terms. Once that was established, I think the adviser should  have reconsidered  his original 
advice and discussed alternative options,  including  for Mr T to keep the 2010 policy and arrange a 
top-up for the additional amount of his new mortgage. Aside from the advisers recollections,  which  
are directly contradicted by Mr Ts account, I dont think theres  any evidence to show  that happened. 
If the adviser had discussed Mr Ts options in these terms, I think its most  likely hed have chosen to 
keep the 2010 policy and would now be in a different position. This is the reason Im upholding  this 
complaint.
putting things  right
Theres nothing to suggest Mr T would  have  had a valid critical illness claim right now if hed kept his 
original policy. But I think theres  a strong likelihood hell reach  the point where he would have had a 
payable claim before it was due to end in 2035. The terms and conditions for the 2010 policy  show it 
included cover  for a number  of kidney-related conditions, including acute  renal dialysis,  chronic renal 
impairment, kidney failure and surgical repair  of a kidney. And for major organ transplant, including  
kidneys. In a recent  letter dated 12 November 2018, Mr Ts consultant nephrologist, Dr B, said:
Mr T is a patient under  the care of the kidney clinic at XXXX Hospital  He has renal failure and 
nephrotic syndrome, and is likely to require a renal  transplant or dialysis  at some point in the 
future
It is very difficult to say with certainty the time scale of him requiring either  dialysis or a 
transplant, but given the current rate of decline in his renal function, this could  be within the 
next few years.
The principal aim of any award  I make is to put Mr T back into the position hed be in if hed received 
appropriate advice. The circumstances  of this case mean its probably not going to be possible to 
achieve this as Vitality wont allow Mr T to reinstate the cancelled policy.
My preferred way to resolve this situation would be for Mr T to have a policy  with a different insurer 
that would fully replicate  the cover he should have if hed kept his 2010 policy  with IMC covering the 
additional cost over and above what he was paying before. Unfortunately,  I dont think  its likely  other 
insurers will offer this cover to Mr T in his current  state of health.  But Im conscious  IMC is an 
independent adviser with extensive knowledge of different insurers and what  they can offer. If it can 
find an insurer  willing  to offer comparable  cover and provide evidence  of this, Im happy to consider  a 
solution along  these  lines.
Assuming he cant now get comparable cover, Mr T will probably have to continue with his current  
arrangements. But that means he wont have any cover for kidney-related problems and isnt the 
position I think  hed hed be in if the adviser  had discussed the merits of keeping his original cover and 
taking a top-up policy.
One possible solution to this problem would be for IMC to provide a formal,  written undertaking to pay 
any claim Mr T may have in future that isnt covered by his current  policy, but that would have  been 
covered by the one he took in 2010. But I dont favour this as theres no way of knowing IMC will still 
be trading and in financial a position where it can honour this if and when it needs to do so.
Ref: DRN440464915Instead, the only possibility I can currently see is to make an award  telling IMC to pay a lump sum 
compensation amount  now thats  designed  to compensate  Mr T for the fact he wont have cover on 
the terms he should  have  and for the additional worry that causes.
Its possible any award on this basis could  over or under-compensate Mr T. That depends on whether 
he develops a condition  that would  have  led to a valid claim on the 2010 policy before it was due to 
end - although the latest  information  from his nephrologist  does indicate this is likely. Because the 
policy had a decreasing benefit, it also depends on the date when this position is reached. To 
illustrate, Vitality has confirmed the current benefit on the 2010 policy if still in force  would be 
£134,045. And that for the remainder of the term, this would have been set to reduce  as follows:
2019 £129,699.49
2020 £125,048.77
2021 £120,072.50
2022 £114,747.89
2023 £109,050.56
2024 £102,954.42
2025 £96,431.55
2026 £89,452.07
2027 £81,984.03
2028 £73,993.23
2029 £65,443.08
2030 £56,294.41
2031 £46,505.34
2032 £36,031.03
2033 £24,823.52
2034 £12,831.48
2035 £0.00
On balance, I think  the evidence  shows its likely  Mr T will end up missing out on a significant  claim  
payment that would have become due if the adviser had truly discussed the merits  of keeping his 
2010 policy as I believe he should have. To reflect that, the compensation IMC needs to pay would 
also have to be significant.
In deciding how much  to award, Id also need to take account of the following  issues that would have 
the effect of reducing the compensation payment to some extent:
assuming Mr T does reach  the point he would  have had a valid claim on the 2010 policy, 
settling the complaint now means hell receive payment for this sooner than he would 
otherwise have done.
also, Mr T will be left with a policy  providing  more cover than hed have if hed taken a smaller  
top-up policy as Ive suggested. So in the unfortunate  event he suffers another  illness thats 
not related to his kidney problem before the policy ends that leads to a successful claim, hell 
actually end up receiving more  than he would have done otherwise  from the policy  he still 
has.
Ref: DRN440464916additional compensation
As Ive explained above, Vitality has confirmed  the total monthly  cost of Mr Ts current  arrangements 
is more than he would be paying if hed kept his original  policy and taken a difference to cover the 
shortfall - £65.64 compared to £60.56. So hes been overpaying by £5.08 per month. 
To compensate for this, I currently  think IMC should refund  each monthly  overpayment  in full between  
the date the 2014 policy started and the date compensation  is paid. To compensate  Mr T for not 
having the use of this money  in the interim, it should  add simple  interest at 8% per year to each 
overpayment from the date it was paid to the date compensation  is paid. Income  tax may be payable 
on the interest.
Im conscious  Mr T will continue overpaying into the future.  But its not certain for how long this will 
happen. Rather than try to directly compensate for future overpayments, I think it makes sense to take 
this point into account when  deciding  on the final settlement figure  Ive described above.
Finally, I do think the failure of IMCs adviser  to provide suitable advice has caused Mr T to suffer 
considerable and unnecessary trouble and upset. I think the impact  of this would have been 
particularly severe given  the health problems hes facing, the amount of money  involved  and the 
continued uncertainty he will face. I currently think IMC should make a substantial  compensation  
payment of £750 to reflect this. Thats in addition  to the lump  sum settlement and partial premium 
refund Ive described above.
finally
At this stage, I havent  finalised my view on how much compensation should  be paid to reflect  the fact 
Mr T wont now be able to make a claim  the medical evidence suggests  he probably would be able to 
make at some point if hed kept his original policy.  Im interested to hear the views of both parties  on 
the subject,  including the amount of compensation  they think  is appropriate at this stage. Im also very 
interested to hear of any alternatives I havent thought of that might  put Mr T back  in the right position, 
particularly if IMC is able to find him appropriate cover  elsewhere.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint. To put things right, I currently believe 
IMC Financial Services Ltd should pay Mr T substantial compensation because he wont be able to 
make a claim for future kidney-related issues. I also plan to make a further award for the additional 
premiums hes paid and the unnecessary trouble  and upset hes suffered.  Ill finalise my award  after 
both parties  have responded to my initial  thoughts outlined above.
Ref: DRN4404649