K821x#15Complaint
Mr R and Mrs R are seeking  to recover just over £67,000 from Lloyds Bank PLC which was 
stolen from their bank due to a third party scam.  
Lloyds Bank  PLC says theyre not liable for the loss because Mr R and Mrs R authorised the 
payments and it could  not reasonably have intervened or done more  to try to recoup the 
money from the receiving  bank
Background
Both Mr R and Mrs R accept that they authorised  the four scam payments totalling  
£67,312.51. And they were duped  by the scammers into transferring  the funds to them.  Prior 
to the four payments made from Mr R and Mrs Rs Lloyds bank account  they made three 
payments via another of their bank accounts  with Bank S, totalling just over £30,000, in 
March and April 2018. Ive considered Mr R and Mrs Rs complaint against Bank S in a 
separate decision. 
Mr R and Mrs R were deceived into thinking  they were investing in a genuine FCA 
authorised investment company Ill call K. Unfortunately for Mr R and Mrs R they were in fact 
speaking with scammers whod cloned the genuine  investment company and persuaded 
them to invest just over £67,000 in the form of four payments. All four payments were made 
via bank transfer to two new payees  between May 2018 and August 2018.  
Mr R and Mrs R believed they were  investing in bonds, commodities  and equities  paying an 
interest of 1% per month plus an additional quarterly payment of 1%. And the possibility  of 2-
3% if they invested more  funds. Prior  to investing  Mr R and Mrs R contacted  the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  and Financial Service Compensation Scheme (FSCS) and were 
reassured that the investment company were  FCA authorised and their investments would 
be protected up to a value of £100,000. 
On the 8 September 2018 Mr R and Mrs R made arrangements  to meet with K, however 
they were concerned when the fraudsters  didnt attend the meeting. After trying  to contact 
the fraudsters and checking the FCA website, on the 18 September  2018 Mr R and Mrs R 
saw a warning from the FCA advising that the genuine investment company had been 
cloned. At this point  Mr R and Mrs R contacted Lloyds to complain. 
Our investigator looked into Mr R and Mrs Rs complaint  but didnt uphold it. They explained 
that although the transactions  were unusual they wouldnt have expected Lloyds to have 
raised any concerns  about the genuine nature of the transactions.  And they felt that Lloyds 
had acted swiftly in attempting  to recover the funds. 
Mr R and Mrs R didnt accept our investigators  findings so it was referred to me for a 
decision. In looking  at Mr R and Mrs Rs case I came to a different conclusion to our 
investigator and I wrote  to Mr R and Mrs R and Lloyds explaining my recommendation. 
Mr R and Mrs R accepted  my recommendation. 
But Lloyds didnt  accept  my provisional  decision and said:
The payment  was a Faster Payment made  via online banking which Mr R and Mrs R 
regularly use and therefore wasnt unusual. And was in line with previous 
Ref: DRN44355082transactions made on the account  including four transactions of £25,000 made in the 
two months prior to the first disputed transaction. 
Although the payment was to a new payee  it wasnt unusual or out of character and 
therefore an error wasnt made in intervention not taking place. 
Its not reasonable to expect Lloyds to monitor all payments to new payees when this 
is the only risk factor. 
The bank  doesnt believe if they had contacted Mr R and Mrs R there would have 
been an opportunity to break  the spell. Its likely  Mr R and Mrs R would have 
confirmed the payment was for an investment  and highlighted the payments theyd 
made and returns received with Bank  S. 
Lloyds staff arent regulated to provide investment advice  Mr R telephoned the FCA 
in order to verify he was dealing  with a genuine  company  and any questions asked 
by the bank would have been asked clearly and confidently  by Mr R and Mrs R. 
As this was a genuine company and the FCA warning was not in place until after all 
payments had been made by Mr R and Mrs R, there was no opportunity for the bank   
to identify that this was not a genuine  investment.
In summary at the time there was no failing from the bank. 
As Lloyds  didnt accept  my provisional decision Ive reconsidered my conclusions. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive not changed the outcome  
I reached in my Provisional Decision. Ill explain why below. 
In my Provisional Decision I said:
I accept that all four transfers were authorised payments even though Mr R and Mrs R were 
the victim of a sophisticated scam. Mr R and Mrs R used their security credentials to request 
the payments.  So, although they didnt intend the money  to go to the scammers,  under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017,  and the terms and conditions of their account, Mr R 
and Mrs R are presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But this isnt the end of the story. I also need to take into account the law, regulators rules  
and guidance,  relevant  codes and practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. In summary this says that Lloyds have a responsibility to monitor  
accounts and payments  made to, amongst other things, prevent fraud and scams. And they 
need to have systems  in place to look out for unusual transactions  or other signs  that might 
indicate its customers are at risk of fraud.  Lloyds  also have responsibilities  to protect  
customers from financial crime. 
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
Lloyds should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
Ref: DRN44355083particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
For online transactions like Mr R and Mrs Rs this may involve following the BSI:PAS 
Protecting Customers from financial harm  as a result of fraud  or financial  abuse  Code of 
Practice. 
The BSI outlines  a number of key principles for banks to follow including taking a proactive 
approach to minimising risks and states banks should have measures in place to identify  or 
detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud. This includes sudden  
increase in spending, sudden changes to the operation of the account and a payment or 
payments to a new payee. It goes on to say that the appropriate staff should  be notified and 
contact made with the customers in a maximum timeframe of 24 hours. 
Im satisfied that the first disputed transaction for £20,000 in May 2018  should have triggered 
Lloyds fraud  detection  system. I say this because the payment was made  to a new payee  
and looking  at the size of the transaction this was a fairly unusual  amount for Mr R and 
Mrs R. I can see that in the two months  prior to the first disputed transaction  there are four 
outbound transactions of £25,000  however  these  were made to existing payees. Im satisfied 
it was unusual account activity based  on the high value of the transaction  and the fact the 
payment was to a new payee. And this should  have  led to the banks fraud  detection 
systems being triggered and Lloyds contacting Mr R and Mrs R to discuss what  the payment 
was for. 
If Lloyds had contacted Mr R and Mrs R, as Id expect them to do, and asked relevant 
probing questions  I think  its likely  the scam would have come to light.  Mr R and Mrs R 
hadnt been given a cover  story,  and I see no reason to think theyd wouldnt have been 
honest with the bank  when asked relevant probing  questions. If Lloyds had asked questions 
such as why they were  making the payment, what research theyd carried  out, what  they 
were investing in and the return they expected I think the bank would have  become 
concerned about  the possibility of a scam.  I say this as Lloyds at the time,  unlike Mr R and 
Mrs R, were aware of the possibility of investment scams  including cloned firms. Mr R and 
Mrs R carried  out some checks  into K  including  contacting the FCA and the FSCS. This 
would likely  have reassured the bank  however  the interest return that Mr R and Mrs R 
were being  offered was surprisingly  high and out of step with the markets  at the time. Ive 
seen a copy of the brochure which states  Mr R and Mrs R would  receive a minimum  of 1% 
per month  plus a quarterly dividend of 1%. This gives Mr R and Mrs R a return of 16% per 
annum. This is much higher than most investments  at the time  and I think would have 
raised significant concerns with the bank. I think Mr R and Mrs R would also have explained 
that their return would increase to 2 or 3% per month with greater investment. As Lloyds are 
aware, increasing the percentage  of interest  achieved with further investment is a common  
tactic used by scammers. 
Ive also considered that Mr R and Mrs R received a dividend from the scammers in 
April 2018 prior to the first transfer on their Lloyds account. This was the result  of payments 
theyd made,  to the scammers, on their account with Bank S. I appreciate that to Mr R and 
Mrs R receiving a dividend  in April 2018 reassured  them, and likely made them  more  
Ref: DRN44355084confident they were  dealing with the genuine investment company. However, Im satisfied 
that Lloyds would have been  aware  that giving victims what appears  to be a dividend 
payment on their investments is a known scam  tactic. 
As the experts, I think if its likely  if Lloyds had phoned Mr R and Mrs R before the first 
transaction was processed the bank  would have raised concerns about  the legitimacy of the 
payment and in doing so broken the spell. It follows if Mr R and Mrs R didnt make the first 
payment to K, they wouldnt  have made the other  three payments either. 
I think my conclusions  about what is likely to have happened if Lloyds had identified the first 
payment as suspicious and asked Mr R and Mrs R probing questions are reinforced  by the 
level of research Mr R and Mrs R carried out prior to investing. And their actions after 
attempting to meet K on the 8 September 2018  which included attempting  to contact the 
scammers, checking the FCA register and notifying the bank  as soon as they saw the 
warning that the investment company had been  cloned. Unfortunately by then it was too late 
 the funds had already been removed.  
In light of my conclusions above,  its not necessary in this case to consider whether the bank 
also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the payee 
bank before they were irretrievably removed  by the scammers. But for completeness Ive 
seen evidence from Lloyds that they made  contact  with the receiving bank on the same  day 
after receiving contact  from Mr R and Mrs R. And Im satisfied that the bank did make efforts 
to recover the funds, but theyd unfortunately been  removed at this point by the scammers. 
Ive also considered whether Mr R and Mrs R should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of authorising  
the payment,  they had no idea they were subject to a scam and werent  aware of the 
consequences of her actions. In fact Mr R and Mrs R carried out research about K online 
and contacted the FCA and FSCS  before investing.  Im satisfied there was no contributory 
negligence on this occasion, they were  simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever  
fraudster. Mr R and Mrs R werent  experienced investors and the bank was the professional 
in financial matters.
In the circumstances Im satisfied that Lloyds should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse Mr R 
and Mrs R for the loss they suffered without any reduction together  with interest to 
compensate them for being deprived of the money  they lost.  
I also think its appropriate to make an award  of £300 for the distress  and inconvenience  
Mr R and Mrs R have suffered. In reaching  that conclusion I am mindful that their loss was 
ultimately caused by the actions of the fraudsters and they were authorised transactions, but 
Lloyds could ultimately have prevented the payments. 
In response to my provisional decision Lloyds focused on two areas and Ill address these in 
turn.
A new payee isnt unusual  enough  to trigger their fraud  detection system, and its 
unreasonable for the bank  to monitor all transactions of this type.  
Ive thought about the points made by Lloyds regarding whether the first transaction was 
unusual or not. And Im afraid I dont agree with Lloyds here,  I understand their argument 
that on its own a new payee shouldnt be enough  to trigger  their fraud detection  system. But, 
in Mr R and Mrs Rs case the value  of the first transaction was also large - £20,000. These 
Ref: DRN44355085two factors together  are sufficient for me to conclude  that the first payment was unusual  and 
should have triggered their fraud detection system.  And led to the bank  contacting Mr R and 
Mrs R. 
Even if the bank  had contacted Mr R and Mrs R it wouldnt have broken the spell.  
Mr R and Mrs R would  have confirmed the payment  was for an investment, there  was 
no FCA warning in place  and Lloyds staff are regulated to provide investment advice. 
Ive considered the arguments made by Lloyds here, but this doesnt change the conclusions  
Ive reached. I agree,  as I explained in my provisional decision,  that if Lloyds had contacted 
Mr R and Mrs R that theyd  have  confirmed the payment  was for an investment. But, I 
wouldnt have expected Lloyds to stop with their probing at this point. As I previously outlined  
Lloyds were aware of cloned investment scams  at the time, unlike Mr R and Mrs R, and Id 
have expected them to ask further  questions including the potential  returns  for the 
investment. Im not saying Lloyds staff needed  to provide investment advice, instead they 
needed to identify and highlight the possible risks of a scam to Mr R and Mrs R. If theyd 
done so Mr R and Mrs R would have explained  that they were expecting  a minimum return 
of 16%.  As Lloyds  are well aware  thats far above  genuine investments at the time.  And I 
think would  have raised substantial concerns with them  about  the possibility of a cloned 
investment scam. 
For the reasons  Ive outlined above Ive not changed the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision and Ill be directing  Lloyds  to reimburse Mr R and Mrs R for their loss 
without any reduction  in interest.  Plus an award of £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Lloyds Bank  PLC to:
Refund Mr R and Mrs R £67,312.51 and pay 8% interest,  from the date of the 
transactions, to the date the settlement is made.
Pay Mr R and Mrs R £300 for the inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 June  2021.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4435508