K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the compensation  offered  to Mr H by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) in 
relation to PPI that was sold associated with two business loans.
background
Mr H complained to HSBC that he was mis-sold  PPI with two business loans which were 
taken out by his partnership.  HSBC  has agreed to settle the complaint and offered 
compensation for the mis-sold PPI. Mr H isnt happy  with the compensation offered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
I would firstly like to set out what I am looking at in this decision. I am only considering the 
compensation offered to settle the complaint about mis-sold PPI with loans ending 4730  and 
5384. 
Mr Hs representative has raised  numerous issues that he asked me to respond to in this 
decision. Many of these  are totally unrelated  to the PPI that was associated with the two 
business loans,  ending 4730 and 5384, taken out by Mr H and his business partners. 
Detailed responses have  been provided  about the other issues,  indicating those relating to 
complaints that have  already been completed  and how any other complaints about PPI or 
the actions of HSBC  could  be taken  forward.
The role of this service is to ensure a fair and reasonable resolution to complaints. It is not 
our function  to impose penalties on businesses for any of their actions. The Financial 
Conduct Authority  is the regulator of financial businesses and it is its role to ensure 
businesses comply with legal requirements.  
This service considers individual complaints and reaches what  is thought  to be a fair and 
reasonable outcome for the parties.  In relation to PPI that is mis-sold, the purpose  is to 
consider what the costs  of a policy may have been  to a consumer and ensure this cost is 
refunded together with compensatory interest  for any time a consumer is out of pocket. The 
aim of the compensation is to put a consumer as far as possible in the position they wouldve 
been in had they taken  out any loans without  a PPI policy.  
As HSBC has agreed the PPI policies taken  out with loans ending  4730 and 5384 were mis-
sold I am considering  what is fair compensation to refund  the costs  of the policies attached  
to those loans.  
loan 4730
This loan for £4000.00 was taken  out in January 2004. It was a business loan taken out 
jointly by Mr H and his business partner at the time, who I shall refer to as Mr A, when they 
set up the business. The documents that I have seen show that PPI was taken out at the 
same time as the loan and the cost of the PPI premium, for £348.00, was added to the loan 
amount being  borrowed. This premium  amount appears on the business account statement. 
Ref: DRN41741782Although the PPI seemed  to only cover Mr H, it was to provide cover  for the loan 
repayments. And the loan was in joint names  of Mr H and Mr A. So Mr A did have a benefit  
from the PPI policy and the premium for the policy was paid for by the loan repayments  
which were paid for by both Mr H and Mr A from the joint business account. So Mr A also 
paid towards the cost of this policy.
The partnership with Mr A ended in November 2004 when the loan ended,  being  refinanced  
by another loan taken out by Mr H and his new partner. So the repayments  for loan 4730 
were only made between January 2004  and November 2004. When  the loan was repaid the 
PPI was cancelled  and a rebate was made to the loan so that when settled  some  of the cost 
of the PPI premium  was removed from the loan.  
HSBC has worked out the amount paid for the PPI premium and interest  whilst the loan was 
running came to £168.48. It has then taken into account the rebate  removed  from the loan 
amount on settlement. And it says a small amount was carried forward into the next loan.  
The total of this carry forward and interest paid on it comes to £42.48. So in total the amount 
actually paid for the PPI was £210.96.
HSBC has added 8% simple compensatory interest for the time Mr H and Mr A were  out of 
pocket and with this added the total compensation comes to £507.80.
Looking at the PPI amount and calculations I think  the way HSBC has worked  this out is fair.
Mr H has argued  that as his partnership with Mr A ended in 2004 Mr A isnt entitled to any of 
the compensation for the mis-sold  PPI. Mr H says all Mr As rights to claims for PPI redress 
passed to Mr H when  Mr A signed the partnership termination agreement.
I dont agree with that contention. Mr H bought Mr As share in the partnership. But the asset 
of the business,  that is now the PPI compensation for the period Mr A was a partner, has 
arisen post the termination of the partnership and was not taken into account  on termination 
of the partnership. The loan the PPI related to ended when the loan was refinanced,  so the 
liability of Mr A ended  but the costs he paid previously for the PPI have never been refunded 
to him. So he may have  an entitlement to some of the compensation now due for the mis-
sold PPI.
As Mr A isnt a party to this complaint and Mr H says he is no longer able to contact Mr A 
then I think it is reasonable  for HSBC to pay Mr H 50% of the compensation as his share. 
If Mr A then is contacted  in the future and asks for his share of the compensation, or says he 
is happy for it to be paid to Mr H, then HSBC can deal with that part of the compensation at 
that time.
loan 5384
This loan for £7,000.00 was taken  out by the partners in the business  in November 2004, the 
partners then being Mr H and his next partner who I shall refer to as Mr B. With this loan 
another PPI policy was taken out, again  the cost of the policy  of £879.20,  was added to the 
amount borrowed  by Mr H and Mr B.
The partnership between Mr H and Mr B ended in July 2005. The Partnership Termination 
Agreement provided indicates that Mr B will act to remove his name from the loan 
Ref: DRN41741783agreement. So it seems this loan agreement  would have ended on termination of the 
partnership in or around July 2005. When this happened Mr H would have  had to refinance 
the loan and again the PPI wouldve been cancelled for the loan in the joint partners names.
So the PPI for this loan ran from November 2004  to July 2005.  HSBC has worked out the 
payments made for the PPI, including interest on the premium  amount, was £689.65. And 
the compensatory interest  on this would be £596.27 after tax. So the total compensation 
offered is £1,285.92.
Again considering the information  available I think the amount calculated  as the 
compensation is fair. And I also think that for the same reasons as for loan 4730,  Mr B as a 
joint loan holder may be entitled to claim a share  of the compensation. 
So I think HSBC should pay 50% of the compensation to Mr H now.  The remainder to be 
retained as Mr B hasnt  been joined as a party to the complaint and this retention would 
protect any claim he may raise with regard to the compensation in the future.
other issues
Mr H has also raised concerns about  the 8% simple  interest amount being paid by HSBC.  It 
may be that some of the costs of the PPI with the loans formed  part of the business account 
overdraft. So there is a question whether the overdraft  interest  rate should be applied 
instead of the 8% simple interest  rate.
If a calculation is carried out to take account  of part of the costs  of the PPI being in the 
overdraft until this was cleared  in 2007, then some of the 8% simple  interest calculation 
would be lost, as both rates of interest  are not payable. Working out the compensation in this 
way would mean the overall compensation due for the PPI with both loans would drop by 
about £200.00.
As HSBC have offered to pay the higher amount  of compensation using the 8% calculation 
for the whole  period I think its fair for that approach to be taken in all the circumstances of 
this complaint. Mr H isnt being  disadvantaged  in any way by this approach being taken. 
HSBC has said it wouldnt pay the compensation for the PPI with these loans until all the 
partners for the relevant loans were  added as parties to the complaint. But I dont think  that 
is fair, as at the present  time Mr H tells us he is unable to make contact with his previous 
business partners.
I understand one of the previous partners may have previously raised a complaint with 
HSBC. If HSBC has the contact information it could use this and finalise the particular PPI 
policy compensation for that specific loan. 
I think the fair approach is to pay Mr H 50% of the compensation  due for both PPI policies as 
I have indicated. 
I know Mr H has many other issues with HSBC but as I have indicated I am only considering 
the PPI sold with the two specified  loans in this complaint. Taking account of everything  I 
have seen I dont  think the PPI sold with these loans was the direct cause of any other 
financial loss for Mr H.
Ref: DRN41741784As it is not a requirement to be represented in bringing a complaint to this service I can see 
no reason to award any third party costs as has been requested.  Any costs for 
representation is an issue for Mr H and his representative.
Overall, I think the approach HSBC has taken to working out the compensation for the two 
mis-sold PPI policies is fair and it should now update any 8% simple interest if payment has 
not been made to the date of final settlement. 
At present the total offered for loan 4730 is £507.80 (after tax) and for loan 5384  is £1,793  
(after tax). 50% of the total compensation for each PPI policy should be paid to Mr H. Im not 
telling HSBC to pay anything further  in relation  to this complaint  about the two mis-sold PPI 
policies with these  loans.
This service is an informal dispute resolution service as an alternative  to the courts. If Mr H 
isnt happy with my decision he doesnt  have to accept it and has the right to take any 
complaint through the legal system.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I think that the compensation worked out by 
HSBC UK Bank Plc for the two PPI policies that were mis-sold to Mr H and his partners is 
fair. And I am directing  that HSBC  UK Bank Plc should pay 50% of the compensation for 
each policy  to Mr H after updating  the 8% simple  interest to the date of final settlement. 
I am not directing HSBC UK Bank  Plc to pay anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4174178