K820x#14complaint
Mrs I complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (Bank of Scotland trading at the time of sale as 
Halifax) mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
Mrs I bought a regular premium MPPI policy in August 1993. The policy  covered Mrs I 
against accidents, sickness and unemployment.  The mortgage  and policy ended in June 
1997.
Mrs I says the MPPI policy was mis-sold to her. She says the policy  was added to her 
mortgage without  her knowledge  and she did not know she had it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Is complaint.  As she doesnt  agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Is case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mrs Is complaint because of the following  reasons:
Bank of Scotland has been  unable  to provide much of the sales documentation that 
was used at the time of sale. There is little information available and so I cant  be 
sure how the policy was presented by Bank of Scotland to Mrs I. Ive not been able to 
see most of the original  sales  documentation  (such as the application form). So its 
been difficult for me to consider whether Mrs I was given a choice or not as to 
whether she should have  the MPPI policy (or whether it was added to her mortgage 
without her knowledge).
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Bank  of Scotland  sold these  
policies around  this time.  Ive also not been  able to obtain a detailed  recollection from 
Mrs I of how the policy was sold at the time of sale either. This is understandable 
considering the many  years that have passed. So taking these points into 
consideration, I cannot fairly  conclude on this occasion that the policy was sold in the 
way Mrs I says it was (that it was added without her consent) I just havent seen 
enough to persuade  me that this was the case. 
Moving on, I cant be sure if Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to                
Mrs I. But after reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI 
policy was unsuitable for Mrs I anyway based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances 
at the time. 
I say this because  although Mrs I has said she held 6 months sick pay, I think  the 
policy would have  come  in useful in a time of need. It would have also paid in 
addition to Mrs Is provisions. I think, on balance, Mrs I had a need for this cover for 
Ref: DRN41362922any extended period of unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt find any other 
reason such as a significant or limiting  term from the policy  documents provided that 
would make the policy unsuitable  for her as the policy  holder  either.
Bank of Scotland has provided  some information about the costs relating to the MPPI  
policy that Mrs I took out but even though it has provided information  detailing the 
cover and how much it cost, I cannot  be sure that these costs were  disclosed to Mrs I 
in a clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even  if they were  disclosed 
clearly I dont think Mrs I would have done  anything different and decided against 
having the policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being 
suitable.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mrs I as the policy holder  wouldve been affected by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold Mrs Is 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Is complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4136292