K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc allowed her to take out a credit card 
with a high credit limit. Shes also unhappy that it failed to effectively monitor her credit  card 
account. 
Mrs R is being represented  by her Son, Mr R.
background
In July 2014 Mrs R applied for a credit card with Natwest. At the time Mrs R was 91. Her 
application was accepted  and a credit limit of £6,200 was applied to her account. 
In or around August  2017 Mrs R exceeded  the credit limit and she entered  into a credit 
repayment plan with Natwest in September 2017. Mrs R didnt keep up with her repayments 
under that plan and subsequent  to that she entered into further repayment plans with 
Natwest. 
Mr R says Natwest should never have accepted Mrs Rs credit card application given her 
age, the fact that that she had no savings,  her monthly income and monthly expenditure. He 
also says Natwest failed  to monitor Mrs Rs account properly.
Natwest says Mrs Rs application  was assessed in accordance with its normal  assessment 
and eligibility criteria  before it was accepted  and it wouldnt have been fair to decline the 
application on the basis of Mrs Rs age. Natwest also says until the summer of 2017 it had 
no reason to intervene with Mrs Rs account  and that its treated her fairly  throughout.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mrs Rs complaint. He didnt think  Natwest had done anything 
wrong. Mr R, on behalf of Mrs R, disagrees.  So Mrs Rs complaint  has been passed  to me to 
look at everything afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. Ill 
explain why. 
Im satisfied that Natwest acted fairly and reasonably when  accepting  Mrs Rs application 
and setting the credit limit. 
Natwest has given me information  that shows Mrs Rs application passed through its normal  
affordability checks including the credit  scoring system it uses. It took several  factors into 
account when  deciding whether to accept Mrs Rs application including  her age, income, 
number of dependants, occupation and essential  outgoings.  It says all of the factors  it takes  
into account carry a scoring and that Mrs Rs score was 515 points above Natwests 
minimum standard. 
I havent seen  the weighting  / scoring Natwest places on each of those things, but the 
information it used  when approving her application, and setting the credit  card limit, looks  
correct.
Ref: DRN48793692Mrs R wasnt working.  But her current account  statements for the three months prior to her 
application show she had a regular income  of around £1,200 per month. And although  it 
looks like she did go into her overdraft each month,  taking into account her essential  monthly  
spending and monthly debt repayments,  she did have some  money  left over from the income 
she received each month. These  things were  all taken into account when the application  was 
accepted and credit limit set.
Ive taken into account what Mr R says about Mrs R having a loan with Natwest   payable  
over 24 months - at the time of applying for the credit card.  And Ive seen the loan statement. 
At the time of applying for the credit  card, Mrs R hadnt missed any monthly repayments, and 
the term of that loan only had around  five months  left to run. In any event  Natwest also says 
it carries out checks with credit reference  agencies when considering  a credit card 
application. I think its likely it did do that when dealing  with Mrs Rs application.  It says 
Mrs Rs credit report showed she had £2,200  of unsecured debt  so I think the loan Mr R 
refers to is likely to have  formed  part of the outstanding  debt appeared on her credit report  
so had been taken into account by Natwest.  
Mr R also says Natwest failed to monitor Mrs Rs credit card account. But until around  
August 2017 I accept  there werent  any obvious  concerns  which couldve led Natwest to 
contact Mrs R or intervene. She was spending within her credit limit  albeit there had been 
an increase in the frequency of spending  in 2017 and the outstanding balance had been 
building up. But she was making  regular  payments  to pay off part of the outstanding balance  
each month   and the amounts she paid off were more than the monthly  minimum 
repayment. So it looks like she was managing her account.
Shortly after Mrs R exceeded her credit  card limit, Natwest did intervene  and its internal 
notes indicate  that a notice of sums in arrears letter was sent to Mrs R and that a repayment 
plan was agreed towards the of September 2017. Although it looks like Mrs R wasnt  able to 
keep up with that repayment plan,  further  repayments plans were subsequently agreed.
Mr R also says there was a period of time when Mrs Rs statements show she was using  her 
credit card almost daily  which he doubts could be the case. Hes concerned that some of 
these transactions  might  not have been  made  by Mrs R. But he hasnt been able to give any 
details of the transactions which might not have been authorised by Mrs R. Looking at the 
type of shops these  transactions  took place at  and the geographical area in which  they 
took place  they all look consistent  with Mrs Rs past spending on the account.  So I dont 
think theres anything  which ought  to have  reasonably alerted Natwest  to any unusual 
activity on Mrs Rs account  and Mrs R didnt raise any concerns about  any particular 
transactions at the time. 
Mr R has also raised concerns about  Mrs R applying for the card online. But based on 
everything Ive got, theres not enough  to say that Mrs R didnt make the application.  Besides 
it looks like Mrs R signed the credit  card agreement that followed the application. So I think  
its more likely than not that she did make  the application  or authorised someone to do so 
on her behalf.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Ref: DRN48793693Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4879369