K820x#14complaint
Ms M says that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance policy (PPI) in 2003. 
background
I issued my provisional decision in May 2019, a copy  of which is attached  and forms part of 
this final decision.  
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was not intending  to uphold Ms Ms complaint. I 
asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Ms M or Santander responded with anything further for me to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions  I 
reached in my provisional decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken  out in 2003.     
Ms M says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN40605712Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.
Im currently  intending to not uphold Ms Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
Santander hasnt been able to provide any of the original  documents  from the time of sale which  
isnt surprising considering the sale took place  in 2003. However, it has provided sample  
documents which it says wouldve been used at the time  and Ive no reason to think  that they 
werent.
Santander has provided a sample PPI application form which would have been completed 
separately from the mortgage application. So Ms M would have had to sign and agree to the PPI 
separate from the mortgage. So having  taking  this in to consideration, I think Santander made it 
clear that Ms M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
Ive thought about everything Ms M has said - including what shes said about feeling  forced to take 
out the PPI. But pressure is a subjective area and what one person  may think is pressure another 
may not. I cant say what  was discussed during the meeting when the PPI was sold. And I think its 
possible the sales representative couldve said to Ms M that it was a good idea to take the policy but 
that isnt the same  as saying she must have it. So without stronger evidence of this I cant fairly  
uphold the complaint on this basis.
Santander recommended the PPI to Ms M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example she 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and she seems to have had a 
need for the cover. Ms M has said she was diagnosed  with a medical condition  in 2003 but this was 
after the sale of the policy. So I dont think it wouldve impacted her making  a claim  if she had 
needed to.
The PPI policy couldve  covered Ms Ms repayments for up to 12 months per claim if she became too 
ill to work, or if she became unemployed. As there couldve been  serious consequences of not 
keeping up repayments  on a debt secured  against her home, if Ms M couldnt work  or lost her job 
then the PPI meant her monthly mortgage payments wouldve been met. So I think the PPI policy 
couldve been  helpful to her  particularly as shes told us she would  not have received any sick pay 
from her employer  at the time and didnt have any savings.
Its possible the information  Santander  gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. 
But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would  
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have  put her off taking  out the cover.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not intending  to uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN4060571