K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
2000. Miss F says American Express Services Europe Limited (American Express)  mis-
sold her the PPI.
background
Miss Fs credit card account was initially taken out in 1997.  And PPI wasnt  taken out at this 
time. PPI was added  in 2000, after Miss F completed a postal application  to upgrade  her 
existing credit card account.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
American Express had to make it clear  that Miss F didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
had to agree  to take it out. 
American Express has provided a copy of Miss Fs original credit card application from 1997 
 and I can see that Miss F didnt opt for PPI at this time. PPI was added  a few years later in 
2000 when Miss F completed a postal application to upgrade her credit  card account.
Ive been given a copy of the upgrade application form and this includes a section  about  PPI. 
In this section there is a description about the cover  and a box to tick if PPI is required. I can 
see that the box has been ticked on Miss Fs form. If Miss F didnt want to take out the PPI 
she could have left the tick box blank. Miss F has also signed  the form which suggests she 
agreed with everything  that had been  entered although given how much  time has passed  I 
can understand why she cant remember this. 
From looking  at the application form,  I cant see anything which suggests that the PPI policy  
was compulsory or that her choice in taking  the cover would impact her application to 
upgrade her credit card.
So based  on what Ive seen and been  told, I think American Express made  it clear  the policy 
was optional and Miss F chose to take it out, knowing she could  refuse it if she didnt want it.
As this application was completed by post, American Express didnt recommend the PPI to
Miss F so it didnt have  to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Miss F got 
the information she needed  to decide for herself if the policy  was right for her.
Ref: DRN46058952Its possible the information American Express gave  Miss F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it should have  been. But she chose to take out the PPI by ticking  the box on the application  
form - so it looks  like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover - so it would have  been useful for her if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable.  
I also note that Miss F says she didnt receive sick pay from her employer if she was unable 
to work because of an accident or sickness. In the event of a successful claim the PPI would 
have covered 5% of the outstanding balance for up to 24 months  per claim if Miss F was off 
work because of an accident  or sickness or if she became unemployed. The policy  also 
included life cover. 
All things  considered I think the PPI provided  a useful benefit and I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
So, looked  at overall, I dont  think the PPI policy was mis-sold.
Which means American Express  doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Miss F.
But American Express has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss F because: 
American Express got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss F about that. Because American Express  
didnt tell Miss F, that was unfair.  
To put that right, American Express has paid back  the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
In response to our adjudicator, Miss F has said that she had an accident in 2002 and didnt 
claim under the PPI as she didnt know she had it. Miss F says this supports that she wasnt  
aware she had taken out PPI. 
Within this decision I have  only looked  at what happened at the point of sale in 2000. And as 
explained above, Miss F ticked to confirm she wanted PPI in 2000.  So I was satisfied  that in 
2000, she was aware  she had PPI. Its possible that Miss F forgot she had a policy in place 
and so forgot to claim. But I dont think that is a result of anything  American  Express  did 
wrong. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss F.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Miss F any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Ref: DRN46058953Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4605895