K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Miss F says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out to cover a store card in 1997. Our adjudicator 
didnt uphold  the complaint. Miss F disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  so the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Miss F aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding  
the policy to her card. I cant be certain what was said at the time Miss F applied for her card 
and PPI but FICL has provided a copy of the available  paperwork.  Miss Fs application form 
had a separate section for PPI which has been  ticked to take the policy.  Miss F has also 
signed the application form in agreement with the selections that have been made. So with 
this in mind I think Miss F would have known the policy was optional and she chose to have  
it.
 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss F so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss F got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments which included sick pay, death in service benefit and redundancy. But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to Miss Fs sick pay and for longer than she would have 
received full pay. It would  also have paid out in circumstances not covered by the other 
protection she had. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Fs circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Miss F.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN41826392Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4182639