K820x#14complaint
Ms Ss complaint against Santander UK Plc (Santander) is that its holding her liable for 
disputed transactions  made after her bank card was stolen.
background
On 24 January 2019, Ms Ss handbag  was stolen after arrival at an overseas airport on a 
city-break. Inside her bag  and among other things - was her purse with her Santander 
bank card, her keys and passport. 
Ms S didnt contact Santander immediately to report the theft, as she was in a foreign 
country and she was first of all dealing  with more practical issues  such as obtaining CCTV 
footage of the theft, and arranging  to get to her accommodation.
After a large transaction was declined,  Santander  contacted Ms S to make  her aware of it 
and apologise,  noting that she was abroad and so the spending must be legitimate. It didnt 
ask her to confirm anything, and advised her to carry on as normal. It was after this that she 
called Santander  to tell it her card had been stolen three or four hours  earlier.
Ultimately, she found out that after the theft her card had been used for transactions  totalling 
£274.38  all of them made using the genuine  card and PIN. As Ms S was clear  that shed 
not revealed her PIN to anyone, Santander concluded that the only other likely scenario to 
explain how the bag thief knew the PIN must have been because there was a note of it 
somewhere in her bag or purse. As this was contrary to Ms Ss account  terms and 
conditions, Santander  believed this met the test for gross negligence, and that it meant  shed 
have to be liable for them.
As such,  it didnt agree  that it should refund Ms S for the disputed transactions.
Ms S didnt agree, and brought  her complaint to this service. She maintained that she hadnt  
been grossly negligent,  and she didnt  think it was fair that Santander could hold her as such 
without proof. 
Our Investigator  considered matters, and obtained  further evidence from both parties. He then 
concluded that although Ms S was clear that she hadnt  been negligent with her PIN, it was the 
only viable  explanation as to how the disputed transactions  could have taken place. And he 
didnt think that Santander had made a mistake  in failing to notice and stop the spending on 
the card, as Ms S alleged. On this basis, he told Ms S he couldnt uphold  her complaint.
Ms S strongly disagreed.  She maintained that it wasnt fair for Santander to decide  shed 
been grossly negligent  without proof. She asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that it wouldnt be fair for me to hold 
Santander liable for the disputed spending on Ms Ss account.  I say this because  the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017  (PSRs) say that customers can be held liable for 
transactions that are authorised, or where they can be deemed to have been authorised by 
virtue of negligence in failing to keep  their card and PIN secure. 
Ref: DRN40916662I appreciate Ms S will be very disappointed by my decision. Shes lost a large sum of money,  
and she has my genuine sympathy for this. But I have to reach  an outcome thats fair to 
both parties,  and on the evidence I cant say that Santander should be held responsible  for 
this loss. 
Im conscious that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in my 
own words. Im not going to respond  to each individual point made. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed  on what I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this, and it simply reflects the informal  nature of our service as a 
free alternative to the courts.  So f theres  something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Its because Im satisfied I dont need to comment  on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I believe that Ms Ss bag was stolen, and that her card and PIN were  used  without her 
knowledge and consent. Shes submitted evidence for all of this. However, as the correct 
PIN was used, and Ms S is adamant that there was no point of compromise when a third 
party could have  found out what it was (e.g. overhearing or shoulder-surfing her), theres 
only one explanation left. And that is that, even if Ms S doesnt remember, there  must  have  
been a note of her PIN somewhere within her stolen  handbag.
We know the card was used successfully  with the correct PIN. And we know the PIN was 
known only to Ms S, and there was no point of compromise. So how did the thief know what 
the PIN was unless  it was noted somewhere with the stolen property? Theres been no 
explanation for this. 
Where evidence is incomplete, as it is here, Im allowed to consider what I think most  likely 
to have happened using the civil test of balance of probabilities. Ms S says shes  unhappy 
to be accused  of gross negligence where  theres no proof. But Id disagree,  and say that on 
the balance of probabilities test its more likely than not that her PIN was noted  somewhere 
inside her handbag. Theres no better, or more feasible, alternative.  And that is sufficient 
proof for my purposes.
On the matter of whether Santander  should have been alerted to the fraud, and stopped  the 
payments sooner, I dont think it made a mistake here. The genuine card and PIN were  
being used, and it had no reason to suspect this was by anybody other than Ms S. Also,  
most of the transactions were for fairly  small amounts.  It did also contact her when it noted 
a large attempted transaction abroad, so I think it did have preventative  measures in place  
that it followed. However, we cant tell banks what criteria to use in their fraud-triggering 
systems, and it may be that another bank at another time might have acted differently. 
But on this occasion  there was no fraud alert, and I dont think Santander failed  to notice 
the fraud when it should have. I also believe that Ms S might have been able to mitigate 
some of her loss if shed  called Santander to block the card sooner, albeit I have noted her 
reasons for not doing so.
Im sorry  Ms S has been the victim  of crime and has lost money. But I hope  Ive explained 
why I dont think its fair to lay the blame and responsibility for this with Santander. 
Ultimately, whoever stole her handbag is the person at fault and responsible for her loss.
Ref: DRN40916663my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4091666