K822xcomplaint
Mr W has complained about Ageas Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the way it 
settled a claim under his car insurance policy and the impact  the claim had on him.
background 
Mr W was involved  in an accident with a cyclist resulting in a claim against  his policy.  Ageas 
went on to settle  the claim holding Mr W liable.
Mr W wasnt happy about this as he thought he wasnt at fault for the accident. And he didnt 
think the cyclist was injured at the time of the accident. He was also surprised that the fault 
claim affected his premiums as he had protected his no claim discount (NCD). 
Ageas accepted that it couldve investigated  the accident more  thoroughly.  But didnt think  
this wouldve  affected its decision  on liability.  It offered £100 compensation for this. But as 
Mr W still wasnt happy he complained to this service.
Our adjudicator looked into things for Mr W and partly upheld  his complaint. He accepted 
that Ageas couldve investigated things more thoroughly and thought that it should increase 
its offer of compensation to £200.  But he thought that it decided liability fairly. He also 
explained that all claims (fault  or non-fault)  affect  risk and premiums. And that even though  
his NCD was protected a claim would ultimately affect his premium.  As Mr W didnt agree 
the matter has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think this 
complaint should  be partly  upheld. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr W but Ill 
explain why.
Mr Ws main concern  is that he was found  to be at fault for the accident  with the cyclist. As 
our adjudicator has already explained  under the policy terms Ageas has the right to take 
over the settlement of the claim. This allows it to decide whether it will take a matter to court 
or to settle a claim. Legal proceedings are time-consuming, expensive and the outcome is 
far from certain.  
But this services general approach is to ensure that insurers act fairly in deciding whether to 
settle a claim. We expect  insurers  to make a reasonable assessment, based on a clear 
understanding of the evidence and the circumstances of the accident. 
I know Mr W would like to be able to defend his case  at court,  like many consumers, but 
often it isnt commercially sensible for insurers to take this path. However,  Ive carefully  
considered how Ageas has handled  his claim. It has acknowledged that it couldve done a 
little more investigation before concluding  liability and I agree. But when Ageas undertook 
further enquiries it concluded that any further  information wouldnt have affected its decision.
Having considered all the available evidence I cant  conclude that Ageas has acted 
unreasonably. I know  the police  didnt  take any action against  Mr W. But they are only 
looking at criminal matters while Ageas has to make a civil decision on liability as outlined 
above. And although I agree that the claim  is complicated by the fact that the cyclist was 
Ref: DRN40396022involved in a race, Mr W had a greater  responsibility to give way to traffic from his right on a 
roundabout.
I know Mr W feels that he was already established on the roundabout. But, having listened to 
the call when he notified Ageas about the incident, it is clear that the cyclist mustve been on 
the roundabout even though Mr W couldnt see him when he entered the roundabout.  And 
Mr W saw another cyclist go through as he approached and race organisers in high visibility 
jackets. So I think that all of this would make  it difficult to argue  that he wasnt liable at all for 
the accident at court,  especially as a cyclist is a vulnerable road user. So I judge  that Ageas  
has acted reasonably in settling the third partys  claim.
I know Mr W has also questioned whether the cyclist sustained any physical injury during the 
accident. But some  injuries arent obvious at the time of an accident and can be masked at 
the time of impact. Plus,  Ive seen  photographs of the damage sustained  to the cyclists bike, 
including a buckled wheel, and some  evidence around his physical injuries. So Im satisfied 
that the cyclist was injured and Ageas acted reasonably.
Mr W has also complained as this fault claim has affected his premium  when he thought it 
wouldnt as he had protected  his NCD. While  I can understand  Mr Ws confusion here I dont  
think that Ageas has done anything wrong or that Mr W has been prejudiced. I say this as he 
would always have  been in this position  if he had taken no claims protection with any other  
provider and he hasnt  lost his NCD as it was protected. His premium wouldve  been higher 
had he not have protected his NCD as he would lost a portion of the discount. I note that 
Ageas is looking  to refund part of his premium,  as it didnt calculate  things correctly 
previously, which  I dont propose  to interfere with.
Finally, I agree that the compensation level should  be lifted  to £200 from £100.  I say this as it 
is clear that Ageas didnt investigate the circumstances surrounding the accident as 
thoroughly as it should have in the first instance.  And it didnt keep Mr W up to date about 
the claim and made an error when it sent its initial compensation payment. So I agree that 
£200 is a fairer reflection of the stress  and inconvenience  caused. 
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I partly  uphold this complaint.  I require  Ageas  
Insurance Limited to pay Mr W a total of £200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4039602