K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in
March 1998. Mr R says Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold him the MPPI.
Mr R was sold an MPPI policy  which  covered him in the event of unemployment. Our 
adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr R didnt agree, so the complaint 
has been passed to me to issue a final decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
When selling  the PPI to Mr R, Nationwide shouldve taken reasonable steps to make  it clear 
the policy was optional. It also shouldve got Mr Rs agreement to take it out. Mr R says that 
he didnt know he had a choice about taking  out the MPPI. 
Nationwide isnt able to provide all the paperwork from the time the sale took place  but this 
isnt unusual for a sale that took place  from so long ago, and businesses  arent  required to 
keep records indefinitely.  So Ive considered  Mr Rs comments alongside what  we know in 
general about how Nationwide sold MPPI at the time to decide whats more likely to have 
happened. And based on what I know about  how Nationwide  sold MPPI I wouldve expected 
there to have been conversations with the advisor  about the MPPI and paperwork wouldve 
had to be completed to confirm the level of cover  and to set up the policy.  And in Mr Rs 
case its been decided  that he would only have  unemployment  cover.  
Following these discussions, it seems Mr R wouldve been sent a schedule.  Nationwide has 
provided a sample  copy of a schedule that would be similar, if not the same as the one Mr R 
wouldve been given.  This explains the cost of the MPPI and benefit amount. The MPPI 
wouldve also appeared on Mr Rs mortgage statements, and I wouldve expected him to 
query this if he had any concerns. 
So taking everything in to account,  Im satisfied its more likely that the policy was presented
as optional, although I can understand why Mr R may not remember this as it was so long
ago.
Mr R says Nationwide recommended him the MPPI. Nationwide  says it didnt provide advice. 
Ive looked at the complaint on the basis Mr R was advised to take out the MPPI  as this 
places a greater  level of responsibility  on Nationwide as it wouldve had to check that the 
MPPI was right for Mr R. Based  on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  
that it was. I say this because:
Mr R was eligible for MPPI.
It doesnt seem he was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI  
cover  like unusual  working arrangements or known medical  conditions.
Ref: DRN42884162Mr R says he wouldnt have received any employer benefits at the time.  The MPPI 
wouldve paid out for 12 months if Mr R lost his job. Mr R was taking on a significant 
and long-term financial  commitment,  which was secured on his home. So the effects 
of not keeping up with the repayments  couldve been serious  for him. And I think 
having the security  that his repayments  wouldve  been made if he was unable to 
work wouldve  been important to him.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr R. And as the policys  
premiums were  paid monthly,  he could  have amended or cancelled  the policy  if it no 
longer met his needs.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr R about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as
it shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went
wrong. So I dont  think better information  about the MPPI would have put him off taking out
the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said, including  his comments in response to the 
adjudicators view that he was told he needed the cover in case he was off work  sick. But as 
detailed above,  the MPPI  was set up just to cover him if he were to lose his job. So these 
points dont change  my decision  and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the MPPI 
was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide  Building Society.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4288416