K822xcomplaint
Mr R has complained to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) about  the way its 
handled a claim  under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
background 
In May 2014  Mr R was sold a solar panel  system by a company called I-Power  Systems Ltd 
(I-Power) at a cost of £11,200.  The purchase was funded by a loan from Creation  
Consumer Finance Limited  (Creation) which was to be repaid with interest over a 10-year 
term.
A key reason for Mr R agreeing to the purchase  was because I-Power told him the financial 
benefits provided by the system  would  cover the cost of the loan and it would be self-
funding. Not only was he told to expect a reduction  in his electricity  bills, but that he would 
also receive Feed-in-Tariff (FiT) payments from his energy  provider  for excess  energy 
which could be sold back to the grid.
Mr R soon recognised  the system wasnt producing the financial benefits he was expecting  
and so wasnt covering  the cost of servicing the loan. 
Under s.75 a finance provider can be jointly and severally liable with the supplier for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  subject  to certain conditions.  I-Power ceased trading 
in 2015 and so he was unable to raise his concerns with it.  So  he made  a claim under s.75 
to Creation stating  the benefits  of the system had been misrepresented  to him.
Mr R is represented by a firm of solicitors who set out the full details of his claim.  Initially 
Creation didnt uphold the claim and stated that it didnt have sufficient FiT statements to 
review everything.   So the matter was referred  to our Service as a complaint.
Having been given information  about  FiT payments,  Creation  made an offer to resolve 
matters based  upon  the difference between the actual benefits Mr R had received and what 
would be required to make the system self-funding.  The offer also included  a refund of the 
overpayments Mr R had made to date plus 8% simple interest on those amounts, and £100 
payment for the trouble and upset caused.
It was noted that Creations offer was calculated using the incorrect installation date for the 
system and so the offer was updated and increased using the same principles. As Mr R had 
settled the loan in full with Creation that was taken  into account and an offer of £11,179.07  
was made.   One  of our investigators  reviewed the offer and considered  it to be a fair and 
reasonable way of putting things right.
Mr Rs solicitors didnt agree.  It suggested  that the calculation  should be based  upon what  a 
restructured loan would have  been using a different methodology  and that would result  in 
greater compensation  payable  to Mr R.
The investigator didnt  agree and so it was requested the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a fresh review and to make a decision.
Ref: DRN46411642my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator  and Ill explain why.
Creation has now accepted  Mr Rs s.75 claim on the basis  that I-Power misrepresented  the 
financial benefits of the solar  panel system.  So its not necessary  for me to consider that, 
except to the extent  of reviewing the offer its made to put things right.
Im aware Mr Rs solicitors have proposed a different  methodology for calculating loss and 
compensation, and they have referred to adopting  that approach on this case  and more 
widely to other complaints  its referred  to our Service.   Its important  to explain that whilst this 
Service aims to apply consistent principles across similar types of complaints, ultimately we 
review each complaint  on its own facts.   So, in making my decision I have specifically 
focussed upon the circumstances of Mr Rs complaint and what  I consider fair and 
reasonable overall.
Its agreed Mr R took a 10-year loan and it was intended that the solar  panel system would 
provide sufficient financial benefit  to service and repay that loan  as that was what  was 
represented by I-Power.  Those benefits  were to come from reduced electricity bills, and 
receipt of FiT payments.   In this case Creation has calculated the likely benefit over the 10-
year term by averaging  the savings and generated FiT payments Mr R received (and 
extrapolating those  across the remainder of the 10-year period).
In this case, Mr Rs solicitor has spoken with Creation directly and confirmed the benefit it 
has used as the basis for its calculation  and has agreed to that figure.   I agree thats a 
sensible approach,  but note its based  upon a number of assumptions  and the real benefits 
in future  years could  actually be different  due to a number of factors.  I also note that Mr R 
has re-financed the loan to obtain a lower rate of interest than Creation had applied  to its 
lending.
I understand the point Mr Rs solicitor makes that the required loan should  be notionally  re-
structured  to reflect what we now know (and the parties have agreed) to be the benefit 
provided by the system.  But I dont consider that is necessary.  In principle there a number 
of ways that Creation could calculate  and propose to put things right,  and what Im 
considering is whether  what it has offered  is fair and reasonable.
The compensation Creation has offered is based  upon an average benefit  from previous 
periods because future performance and benefits  are unknown.  But the terms of the loan Mr 
R took with Creation are known and were  in place from the outset, and so I consider it 
reasonable for that loan to be used as the starting  point for any calculation.  Equally, Im not 
proposing the offer should be reduced to reflect any reduction in Mr Rs actual  losses,  or the 
fact hes mitigated some of the interest payable by re-financing the loan to a more preferable 
rate.
So overall, Im satisfied the methodology and basis for Creations calculation  and 
subsequent offer to Mr R is fair and reasonable.
Ive also considered the impact upon Mr R, and in the circumstances think that £100 is an 
appropriate sum for the trouble and upset  hes received.   I realise that Mr R is likely  to be 
frustrated with the time its taken to resolve these issues  and disappointed  that Im not 
Ref: DRN46411643awarding the additional compensation hes requested.  But  I must  assure  him that Ive 
considered everything  impartially  and reached  an outcome that I consider to be fair and 
reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint against Creation  Consumer  Finance  
Limited.  But I consider  the offer it has made  to put things right is a fair and reasonable way 
of resolving matters  and I leave  it to Mr R to decide whether or not to accept that offer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4641164