K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
to Miss P. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2001.  Barclays sold Miss P the 
policy at the same time that she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Miss P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Miss P has said, but Ive decided the policy  wasnt  mis-sold. I will 
explain why.
Miss P has said she didnt ask for or take out PPI, which means  effectively the PPI was 
added without her knowledge.  However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened  
unless there  was reasonable supporting evidence of this. Where someone has said another 
person or organisation has done something  wrong, fairness requires that the person making 
the allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to 
require someone  to prove they didnt do something, especially when it was such  a long time 
ago. And also I can see that there is a tick against the box applying  for PPI on the credit card 
application form, which Miss P signed.  I cant of course be sure that Miss P ticked this box, 
and that it wasnt  done after shed signed. But it does  at least suggest  that she agreed to 
PPI; even if now, some 18 years later, she doesnt remember. But, overall, without stronger 
evidence, I cant fairly  say the PPI was added without Miss Ps consent 
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Miss P, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The PPI could  have helped  pay the credit 
card bill for a period, if she was unable to work through sickness or redundancy, and it 
seems she didnt have  good employment benefits  or savings to help cover this. So, the PPI 
was potentially useful.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. And I cant  see any other 
reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
Barclays gave Miss P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  have  been.  But I dont think, 
in her circumstances,  full information about  costs and benefits would have affected whether 
she took the PPI. And it doesnt  look like shed have  been affected by any of the significant 
exclusions in the policy. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back the 
cost of the PPI to Miss P.
Ref: DRN44895792Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2020. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4489579