K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1994 with a 
mortgage. Ms H says Bank of Scotland plc, who were trading at the time as Leeds 
Permanent Building Society (Leeds) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
I think Leeds made it clear that Ms H didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this. I say this because  Ive been 
given a copy of the application form Ms H completed  at the time. I can see that PPI had to 
be selected to get it. The mortgage  application  form included a request for PPI and Ms H 
signed this. There  is nothing in the documentation Ms H signed that suggests that getting the 
mortgage was dependant on her having  to take the PPI. And if she hadnt wanted the cover 
she had no need  to complete the application as she did. 
 
And the mortgage  offer letter that was sent out subsequently, explained  that Ms H would be 
paying for Income Protection Cover. So if she hadnt selected the PPI as she says now,  
then the mortgage offer would, I think, have put her on notice  that she would be paying for 
something that she hadnt selected. And Ms H would then I think have raised  this as a matter  
of complaint with the Leeds many  years before she eventually chose to do. So it seems most  
likely to me that Ms H chose to take the cover and did so knowing she had a choice.
Leeds recommended  the PPI to Ms H so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to 
the PPI cover. And she seems to have had a need for the cover.  I say this as Ms H told us 
she had no sick pay or any other  means  that she could rely on if things went wrong.  This 
policy couldve covered  Ms Hs monthly mortgage  payment for up to 12 months. So, thinking  
about all of that, and the potentially serious consequences  of defaulting on a loan secured  
on your home, I think Ms H couldve found this cover useful.
The cost was comparable  to other  policies  from the time which  offered similar potential 
benefits. And Ive seen  no evidence that the cost was unaffordable.  
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policy  was suitable for Ms H.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Ms H, Leeds also had to give her clear enough 
information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted  to buy it. Its possible  the 
information Leeds gave Ms H about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  been. But for the 
same reasons Ive mentioned above  that I think the policy was suitable for Ms H, I dont think 
better information wouldve stopped her from buying it. 
Which means Leeds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms H.
Ref: DRN40729642But Leeds  has offered to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms H because: 
When the policy was sold,  Leeds  expected to get a high level of commission  and profit  
share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should  have told Ms H about  that. 
Because Leeds didnt tell Ms H, that was unfair. 
To put that right,  Leeds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the Leeds needs to do
Leeds has to pay back to Ms H any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Leeds should also pay back  to Ms H any extra interest Ms H paid 
because of that.
Leeds should pay back to Ms H the extra she paid each month because the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Leeds  should also pay Ms H 8%* 
simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 1993).
*Leeds have to take basic rate tax off this interest.  Ms H can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Ms H any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it has not already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4072964