K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that his legal expenses insurance policy was mis-sold to him by 
Grove & Dean  Ltd.
background
Mr C had home contents insurance,  which he bought through  Grove  & Dean.  The policy also 
provided legal expenses insurance cover. In August  2017, when his policy was due for 
renewal, Grove & Dean  provided details of insurance from a different insurer. Mr C took out 
the new policy.
When Mr C had a dispute with his employer, he contacted  the legal helpline provided as part 
of the legal expenses cover. He wasnt happy with the service  he received. And he 
complained to Grove & Dean that the policy had been mis-sold, because hed been told the 
new policy provided better cover than the old one and he felt the cover wasnt  as good.
Grove & Dean  didnt agree that the policy had been mis-sold and said the information 
provided about his new policy had been accurate. So Mr C complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She said Grove & Dean wasnt 
responsible for the advice Mr C had received  any complaint about that would be against  
the insurer. She thought Grove & Deans  comments about cover being  better  could have 
been clearer, but she wouldnt say a policy was mis-sold simply because he didnt get the 
advice he was looking for from the legal advice helpline.
Mr C disagreed. He said the old policy provided a legal helpline  that included issues about 
financial products, such  as credit cards  and loans. But this wasnt  provided by the new 
advice line  he couldnt even speak to a lawyer about them   so to say this policy provided 
better cover was a misrepresentation.
Grove & Dean  said the new policy did provide better cover  overall  and the information 
provided to Mr C had been  clear.  
Our investigator didnt  change her view, so Mr C requested an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2019. In the provisional decision, 
I said:
Grove & Dean  is a broker, and sold the policy to Mr C. its not responsible for dealing with 
claims made  on the policy  thats  the role of the insurer, a different business. That includes  
the legal  helpline, which is a service provided  on behalf of the insurer.  Mr C is unhappy  with 
the service he received  when he used the legal helpline. If hes unhappy  about  that he would 
need to complain to the insurer.
When Mr C renewed his home contents  insurance, Grove  & Dean gave  advice to him about 
a new policy. As this was an advised sale, its role was to assess his needs and find a policy  
that would  cover his needs. Grove & Dean  recommended  a policy following an assessment 
of his demands and needs. 
Mr C hasnt complained  about the home  contents policy and Ive seen nothing to suggest 
there was any issue with the advice to take out this new policy.  
Ref: DRN49276242What Mr C is unhappy about is the additional  cover provided for legal expenses  insurance. 
This was some  extra cover provided with his contents insurance, arranged  separately with a 
different insurer. Whereas for the contents  cover Grove  & Dean  looked  at different insurers 
and recommended a suitable policy to Mr C, this additional cover was simply  an add-on that 
came with his home contents cover  there  was only one legal expenses  provider  Grove & 
Dean dealt with. As I understand  it, there was no additional charge for this. And Grove & 
Deans terms of business explain that no advice  was given about the suitability of the legal 
expenses add-on.
Mr C says it wasnt accurate to say the new policy provided better cover, because the 
helpline provided  a more limited service.
The policy documents set out what cover is provided. Its also clear  from the documents that 
the legal  helpline allows the policyholder access to legal advice. But this is limited to things 
that are covered  under the policy. 
Grove & Dean  also sent Mr C a document headed IMPORTANT  NOTICE TO 
POLICYHOLDERS. This set out the key differences between the old legal  expenses  cover 
and the new cover. For almost all of the areas covered, the indemnity limit increased from 
£50,000 to £75,000. And there  was some new extra cover that wasnt  provided at all by the 
old policy.
Taking the documents as a whole, I think it was clear to Mr C what the new policy provided, 
and that in some respects the cover  was better than the old policy. As Ive said,  he hasnt 
complained about the contents policy. In my judgment, the policy  was suitable overall. And I 
think he was able to decide whether he wanted to buy it. 
Taking all of these circumstances into account, even  if the legal helpline was more limited,  I 
dont think its likely  he would have refused to take out this policy and gone elsewhere to find 
a different policy.
For all these reasons I dont think the complaint  should be upheld.
developments
Mr C did not accept my provisional decision. He said:
The provisional decision was based  on suppositions.
His previous insurance  provided  a helpline that gave advice on a wide range of legal 
issues, not just those covered under the policy. And he had used this to get advice 
which he wouldnt otherwise have been  able to get without paying for a solicitor.
He made  his concerns known to the broker and asked if the new policy provided a 
similar level of cover. He renewed his policy  after discussing this and receiving  
assurances that it did. The broker didnt draw his attention to the policy  documents or 
discuss them with him.
Mr C asked me to listen to a recording of his call with the broker  before making a final 
decision.
Grove & Dean  hasnt made any further  comments, other than to say there  is no recording of 
a call with Mr C, as the discussion about renewing his policy  took place by email, and they 
have already provided copies of those emails.  
Ref: DRN49276243my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his response to the provisional  decision,  Mr C referred to some  more recent events 
concerning his policy. As those were not part of this complaint I havent considered them  
here.
Mr C says the provisional decision was based  on suppositions, and I didnt have all the 
evidence needed,  including  a recording of his call with the broker.  I make my decisions on 
the basis of the evidence  provided. Where this isnt conclusive I will make a judgment on 
what I think is most likely  to have happened. Although Mr C referred to a call with Grove & 
Dean, they have no record of such a call. And Mr C hasnt been  able to provide any further 
evidence of this. The evidence I do have includes the email  correspondence between the 
parties at the time, which I considered before making my provisional decision. Without 
anything further,  it remains  my view that the complaint should not be upheld. 
As I explained in the provisional  decision,  Grove & Dean provided details of the policy to 
Mr C, including details of the service provided  by the legal helpline. Taking the documents as 
a whole, I think it was clear what the new policy  provided, and I dont think  it was misleading 
to say the policy was at least as good as the old policy  even if the legal helpline was more 
limited, in other respects  the cover  was better. In my judgment, the policy  was suitable 
overall. Grove & Dean  answered Mr Cs questions and provided  details of the policy  to him. I 
think he was able to decide whether he wanted to go ahead with it. And even if that wasnt 
the case I dont  think  its likely the difference in cover provided by the new helpline  would 
have led him to refuse to take out this policy and look for a new broker to find a different one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.  
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4927624