K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about an insurance  policy  he took out with AXA Insurance  UK Plc in 
early 2018.  He is unhappy the policy has been voided because he didnt disclose some key 
information to AXA when he became aware  of it. Mr C says he didnt discover this 
information until after the house  purchase  went through  and the policy was already in place.  
He thinks the voidance was done  incorrectly and is unfair. Hes also unhappy about  how 
long it took AXA to make that decision.
background
On 15 January 2018 Mr C telephoned an independent broker  to arrange his insurance 
policy. When he did so AXA required him to answer  questions about himself and the 
property he was buying. These questions included:
 
Is the property in a good  state  of repair and free from damage or defect of any kind?
and
Is the property and surrounding  area free from any sign of damage by landslip, heave or 
subsidence (i.e. cracking or bulging walls)? 
Mr C answered  yes to both questions. 
Contracts for the property purchase  were exchanged on 2 February 2018. The policy  went  
into force  at the same time and policy documents were produced  to be sent to Mr C. In them 
AXA said:
Checking your details:
You will also been given  a copy of your statement  of fact. You must tell your Insurance  
Agent as soon as reasonably possible if any of the details are inaccurate or if any of the 
information shown  in your statement of fact, or schedule changes  during the period  of 
insurance.
However, the insurance broker, which would normally have printed and sent the policy 
documents, has confirmed it didnt  do so. This was due to Mr C asking it not to. It doesnt 
have any note of why Mr C requested not to be sent any documentation and it confirmed it 
hadnt been asked for them since.
A homebuyer report was completed  by a surveyor on 29 January 2018. It was sent to Mr C 
on the evening  of 2 February 2018.  The surveyor said in the covering email:
There are a number of significant issues  that must be resolved and I would strongly  urge 
against proceeding with the purchase  until such time as these issues  are resolved otherwise 
you could find yourself with a very hefty  bill.
The survey  report went on to confirm  in the report there  were  major structural issues with the 
property. In particular  it said:
Significant movement  has occurred in the south west corner of the building  noted by 
significant cracking on the western elevation near to the south west window. In addition, 
Ref: DRN44973262there is a slight bow to the corner in this area. This is most  likely due to ground movement as 
a result of defective drainage, possibly surface  water and further  investigation is required by 
a structural engineer.
The purchase completed on 16 February  2018. 
In July 2018 Mr C made a claim for the subsidence  damage to his property. AXA sent out a 
loss adjuster to inspect  the damage  and asked various questions. In January 2019 it 
declined the claim  and voided  the policy because it believed Mr C had incorrectly  answered  
the above two questions.
Mr C was unhappy with AXAs  conclusions as he said he hadnt been  aware  of the problems 
when he bought the property  if he had, he would not have  gone  through with the purchase.  
AXA didnt change  its position, although it apologised for not having kept Mr C informed of 
what was happening,  and so Mr C asked us to consider the complaint. 
AXA provided this service with evidence from its underwriting guide that showed it would 
have declined to provide  cover for any property  that has suffered from subsidence, ground 
heave, landslip  or any other type of movement.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld   the 
policy should be reinstated and the claim considered. 
AXA didnt accept  her conclusions and asked that the matter  be referred to an ombudsman 
for consideration. It acknowledged that Mr C hadnt provided incorrect information when he 
applied for the policy. However, it had informed him that if any of the information hed given 
was incorrect, he needed to tell it/the  broker. So Mr C should  have told AXA as soon as he 
knew about the problems, which was the day the policy started. If he had told AXA at this 
point, it would have  withdrawn cover and Mr C could have sought specialist cover  
elsewhere.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to consider. I issued a 
provisional decision on 8 April 2020.  In that document I set out my conclusions and reasons 
for reaching  them. Below is an excerpt of the provisional decision.
Mr C was asked two clear questions at the time he applied for the policy. I am satisfied that 
he answered them to the best of his knowledge  at that time. So there was no 
misrepresentation when the policy was applied for.
However, Mr C knew less than three  weeks later that the answers hed given AXA were  very 
wrong. Whilst he didnt receive the policy documentation telling him to let AXA know  if any of 
the information hed give at application  was wrong,  I dont  think  that advice was needed in 
this particular situation. 
It was only a very short period between Mr C telling AXA the property was in a good  
condition and free from cracking suggestive of subsidence and him discovering this was not 
the case. Although he may not have remembered the exact wording of the questions, it was 
close enough to when he was asked the questions to know that AXA had wanted to know  
about the condition of the property and what hed said was wrong.  In the circumstances 
I think it would have  been reasonable for Mr C to have  contacted  AXA (either directly  or 
through his broker) to let it know about  the condition of the property.
Ref: DRN44973263Had Mr C contacted AXA when he received  the surveyors report, I am satisfied AXA 
wouldnt have agreed to continue to cover  the property. Its underwriting guide is clear that it 
doesnt offer cover  for properties in the condition Mr Cs was at the time. As such,  and 
I know this will disappoint Mr C, I dont consider AXA did anything  wrong  in voiding the 
policy. 
Neither AXA or Mr C made  any further submissions in response to my provisional decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset to decide  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and in the 
absence of any further comment from the parties or new evidence, I see no reason to 
change my conclusions.  
I remain satisfied that Mr C should reasonably have told AXA when  he received the survey 
that his answers  to its questions had been  wrong.  The underwriting  information  we have 
evidences that AXA wouldnt  have agreed to continue  to provide cover for the property and, 
as such, its voidance of the policy was not unreasonable.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept  or reject my decision before 
23 May 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4497326