K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited (CFS) declined his claim under 
s75 Consumer Credit  Act.
background
Mr H says he ordered a new kitchen from a third party business that Ill call Business A. He 
says he paid for it partly with finance from CFS. And he says when the kitchen was supplied  
the worktops were  the wrong colour.
Mr H also says he complained about Business A to a third party dispute resolution service  
and was unhappy with its response. So, he says he took the matter  up with CFS as his 
finance provider,  but it said it couldnt  help him under s75 Consumer Credit  Act (s75).
CFS says Mr H had signed the purchase contract to confirm  hed checked  showroom 
samples and that his purchase of the work surface specified in the contract was correct.  It 
says the contract  also highlights that once signed  no changes  could  be made. And it says 
the third party  dispute  resolution service Mr H has referred to, reviewed the case and 
concluded there was insufficient evidence to support his claim.
So, CFS says for these reasons its unable to uphold his complaint or agree to refund the 
£5,075.34 hed paid for the worktops.   
Our investigator thought Mr Hs complaint  shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He said he checked  the contract later the 
same day and the name of the worktop caused him no concerns or suspicions, as most 
worktops of this type have exotic names.  And he said he had no reason to suspect the sales  
agent wouldve  put the wrong worktop name  on the contract.
Mr H also said the CCTV from the store should be obtained, as it would show he repeatedly  
visited the display  for the samples of worktop he understood he was buying, but he never  
went to the display for the type of worktop named  in the purchase  contract.  He said it would 
be ridiculous for him to buy worktops  hed never  seen or gone near in the store. And he said 
he was unimpressed with the investigation carried  out by the third party  dispute  resolution 
service, as it relied solely on the signed  contract.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr Hs complaint relates to a decision of CFS about a claim he made  under s75. So, I think I 
should begin by very briefly summarising when s75 applies  and how it works. The section 
Ref: DRN45629282gives a consumer the same right to claim for a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
against a provider of certain  types  of finance used to buy goods or services  as he has 
against the business that supplies them.
Mr H bought his kitchen with a fixed sum loan from CFS for that specific purpose.  So, this 
means s75 applied.  Consequently, when  Mr H was dissatisfied with Business As response 
to his complaint  about the worktops,  he asked CFS to refund the price hed paid, on the 
basis that they werent the worktops hed agreed  to buy.
So, I have to decide whether CFS was reasonable to reject Mr Hs claim on the ground that 
there wasnt enough evidence of any breach of contract or misrepresentation by Business A.
I see CFS based its decision to reject Mr Hs claim on the fact that hed signed  a contract to 
buy the type of worktop Business A supplied,  supported by the fact that a third party dispute 
resolution service specialising in the relevant type of goods  had concluded there wasnt 
enough evidence  to uphold his complaint.
Im satisfied this shows CFS considered Mr Hs claim properly and that it made a reasonable 
decision to reject it, based on the information  it had seen.
I acknowledge what Mr H has told us about  the other sources of information that CFS 
couldve considered  in support of his claim, including  attempting  to obtain  CCTV footage  
from the store where he agreed  to buy the kitchen.  But notwithstanding Mr Hs comments,  I 
think its unlikely this wouldve been sufficient to show a breach of contract  by Business A, 
particularly without also having a recording of his discussions  with the sales agent.  And I 
also think it would be disproportionate to expect CFS to go to the lengths of seeking to 
obtain this information, which is unlikely to have been forthcoming in any event.
So, taking everything  Ive seen into account,  I cant conclude  CFS did anything  wrong  in 
rejecting Mr Hs claim under s75 and this means I cant fairly and reasonably  uphold  his 
complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against  Clydesdale  Financial  Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  26 July 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4562928