K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Clydesdale Bank Plc applied  an unfair early repayment charge  
(ERC) when they repaid their mortgage.
background
In August  2013,  Mr and Mrs A took out a five-year fixed rate mortgage  with Clydesdale. The 
mortgage offer set out that an ERC  was payable if the mortgage was repaid  before 30 
September 2018.
In January 2018, Mr and Mrs A repaid their Clydesdale mortgage. An ERC of £8,003.02 was 
applied. Mr and Mrs A consider the ERC  is unfair.  They say it is a penalty and that 
Clydesdale should  calculate its loss by looking  at the interest and capital owed. Mr and Mrs 
A added that Clydesdale wouldnt supply  the calculations it was required to carry out under 
the relevant rules.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said that Clydesdale  hadnt  
sufficiently demonstrated  how it estimated  its costs  so she couldnt conclude  the ERC was 
a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs when the mortgage was taken out. She said that 
Clydesdale should  therefore refund the ERC, with interest at Mr and Mrs As new mortgage 
interest rate.
Mr and Mrs A accepted what the investigator  said. Clydesdale didnt accept what  the 
investigator said.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ERC was set out clearly and prominently on the mortgage offer. I dont  agree  that it is a 
penalty. That would  be a charge  applied  for breaching a contract. But Mr and Mrs A werent  
breaching the contract  rather they were using their right under the contract to exit the 
mortgage during  the tie-in period. So it wasnt a breach of contract and the law around 
penalties doesnt  apply here.  
Further, it is unlikely the costs a lender will incur  on early repayment will be limited to lost 
interest or are necessarily as straightforward  as Mr and Mrs A have set out. 
But that isnt the end of the matter.  The Mortgages  and Home  Finance: Conduct of Business  
Sourcebook (MCOB) sets out the FCAs rules on mortgages. It says:
A firm must ensure that any regulated mortgage contract that it enters into does  not impose, 
and cannot be used to impose,  an early repayment  charge other than one that is:

(2) a reasonable  pre-estimate of the costs as a result of the customer repaying the amount 
due under the regulated  mortgage contract  before the contract has terminated. 
Under our rules I must take into account the relevant rules in deciding what  I consider  to be 
fair and reasonable in the individual  circumstances of a complaint.
Ref: DRN46693992In this case we asked to Clydesdale  to explain how it calculated  the ERC  and said we could 
accept the information in confidence if it was commercially sensitive.
It provided a breakdown of how it estimates the ERC across a portfolio of mortgages. It said 
that it considered  breakage costs, recovering set up costs  and remaining  competitive. All of 
these things are in line with my understanding of what  a reasonable way to estimate  what 
the cost of repaying the mortgage  early would be.
But the investigator asked for more information about how Clydesdale estimated  the interest  
rate impact.  This element  made  up a significant proportion of the estimated costs that 
Clydesdale was seeking to recoup through the ERC.  But Clydesdale has refused to provide 
this information.  
Im sure Clydesdale is aware  of the DISP  rules. It is required under those rules to cooperate  
fully with us. Under  those  rules I can also reach  a decision on the basis of what has been  
supplied and take account of the failure by a party to provide information requested. So its 
not for Clydesdale  to tell us that the information it has given us is sufficient. It is for us to 
decide what we need and for Clydesdale to provide that information promptly  in line with the 
deadlines we set.
Ive looked at the information we have from Clydesdale. I agree with the investigator that it 
doesnt include enough information  for me to say that the ERC represents a reasonable pre-
estimate of the costs  to Clydesdale of the mortgage  being repaid early. Its methodology may 
or may not be reasonable. But it hasnt given me enough information to fully establish that. 
Therefore, I cant say the ERC is a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs  of the mortgage 
being repaid early.
MCOB says that a firm cant impose  an ERC unless it is a reasonable pre-estimate of the 
costs of the mortgage being repaid early. Taking that into account,  as I dont consider that 
Clydesdale has shown  the ERC  is a reasonable pre-estimate in line with MCOB and looking 
at the circumstances overall,  I consider  it would  be fair and reasonable for Clydesdale to 
refund the ERC with interest.
Mr and Mrs A have  said they added the ERC  to their new mortgage. They have given me 
evidence that the fixed interest rate on their mortgage was 2.09% until 20 January 2020.  
Either they will have reverted to a new fixed rate or the new lenders  standard variable rate. 
If they accept my decision,  they should  provide  evidence to show  the interest rate they are 
now paying.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale  Bank Plc should:
Refund the ERC of £8,003.02.
Pay interest on the above amount at 2.09%  from the date the mortgage was repaid until 
20 January 2020 and from 20 January  2020  until date of settlement at their new 
mortgage interest rate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2020.
Ref: DRN46693993Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4669399