K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Lloyds Bank PLC, Cheltenham  & Gloucester at the time (Lloyds), 
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs D bought  the PPI at a meeting in 2003  when taking a further mortgage advance. 
Theyve told us the further advance was for home improvements. The PPI policy  provided 
cover for Mr D for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. For a successful claim it offered to pay Mr and Mrs Ds monthly further  advance  
payment (around  £368 at the time of the mortgage  offer)  plus £3 for every £1000  of the 
advance amount (£147). The monthly  policy premium  was around £25 at the time.
The mortgage application form says Mr D was employed at the time as a sales  manager and 
had been there around 14 years. Hes told us he had work sick pay or redundancy pay worth 
at least six but less than 12 months pay, with six months full sick pay and three  months full 
pay for redundancy. Mrs D was self-employed and with earnings  at the time a little over a 
fifth of Mr Ds. Aside from their work earnings and Mr Ds work  benefits,  Mr and Mrs D have 
said they didnt  have any other  means with which to pay their mortgage if they couldnt work.  
From what  Mr D has told us, he was in good health at the time of the sale.
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show that, amongst other advances  taken on the mortgage, 
Mr and Mrs D took a further advance in 2006. 
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ds representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs D 
wouldnt have taken  the policy and the complaint  should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ds 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs D about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs D and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN46652182The information Mr and Mrs D received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs D arranged a further  advance on their mortgage in 2006 after mortgage  lending 
became regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole mortgage  becoming an FCA 
regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A  of the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and 
the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN46652183The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ds case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs D with reasonable  care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in their favour, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr and Mrs D suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN46652184Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs D 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs D know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage application gave 
the option to say either yes or no to PPI. Mr and Mrs D didnt make an election on that 
form, but to take the PPI they signed a separate  Payment Protection  Plus Proposal Form, 
indicating that Mr D was to have 100% of the cover. With all this in mind, I think  it likely they 
wouldve known the PPI was something  separate from the mortgage  and they havent said 
anything to make me think they didnt know the policy was optional. Taking everything into 
account, I think its more  likely  Mr and Mrs D knew the policy  was optional and they agreed 
to take it without undue pressure.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it provided advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs D cant  recall whether advice was 
given. With all this in mind, Im persuaded Lloyds provided advice. This means Lloyds had to 
advise Mr and Mrs D with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was 
appropriate or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
It seems  Mr and Mrs D cant remember clearly what happened and there  is no record  of 
what the adviser discussed in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale 
during a meeting. But the documentary evidence suggests Lloyds took some  steps  to 
establish whether  the policy was a suitable  recommendation  for Mr and Mrs D. As part of the 
mortgage application, the adviser  had some information about Mr and Mrs Ds financial 
circumstances  for example their employment situations, earnings  and Mr Ds length of 
service. But I dont  think Lloyds did enough  to ensure the PPI was suitable   for example Ive 
nothing to show that Lloyds asked about Mr Ds work sickness  or redundancy benefits.
Also, although the declaration signed by Mr and Mrs D on the PPI application asked them  to 
confirm they werent  aware of impending unemployment or hospitalisation or receiving  
treatment for conditions of a persistent  or recurring nature, theres no specific  evidence to 
make me think Lloyds established  that all this applied to Mr D before giving Mr and Mrs D 
the application to sign.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs D given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs D, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs D had a need  for the policy. Mr D was the higher earner and it seems likely 
Mr and Mrs D would  suffer a significant drop in income were he not working  for an 
extended period.  In that situation it also seems likely this wouldve put their finances 
under strain, bearing  in mind also that theyve  said they were financially stretched and 
didnt have any savings to fall back on.
Ref: DRN46652185-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs D. There  
was nothing about Mr Ds employment or occupation which  would have made it difficult 
for them to claim. And they havent told us about any pre-existing medical  conditions  he 
had that couldve  affected their ability  to claim.  There were also no additional restrictions 
on cover  for mental health or back problems.
-Mr D met the eligibility criteria  for the policy and although  Mr and Mrs D have said they 
were financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing else to suggest  the monthly cost 
of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-There were  limits  to the cover  provided  by the policy (including: the any similar gainful  
occupation condition,  the fact no benefit was payable for the first 60 days  of disability or 
unemployment and the fact the PPI would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months 
for each claim). But the PPI still provided valuable  cover  given Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances, the substantial loss of income  theyd  suffer if Mr D couldnt work because 
of disability or unemployment, the fact the PPI protected mortgage repayments relating 
to Mr and Mrs Ds home and the potential  consequences  should Mr and Mrs D be unable  
to make the payments on loans secured against  their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs D sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs D were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr D 
were unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs D wouldve taken 
the policy without  any sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs D agreed to take the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs D, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D all the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ds representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Ds. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
Ref: DRN46652186-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ds representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs D about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ds representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs D have suggested. And, taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs D? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs D suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Lloyds didnt do all it should  have  done  when it sold Mr and Mrs D this policy. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr and Mrs D 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs D, Ive found  the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In those  circumstances it seems to me that, whether or not Mr and Mrs D 
have suffered loss or damage  in this case primarily depends on whether, if Lloyds had 
explained things  properly, Mr and Mrs D would have acted  differently or whether they would 
have taken the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs D say they wouldnt  have  taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs D had some  interest  in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised them there  was a suitable product 
they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event they were unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, they concluded they wanted that 
product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  they 
thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Ref: DRN46652187It doesnt appear Lloyds  told Mr and Mrs D the exact  premium  at the point they applied for 
the policy. But I consider it more  likely  than not they knew  they would have to pay something 
for the PPI and were aware of the approximate  cost. If the PPI cost when they came to pay it 
had been significantly  at odds with their expectations at the sale,  its possible they mightve 
raised this with Lloyds  or reconsidered  their decision instead of paying  it for a number of 
years. Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs D would have found  the cost unacceptable if 
they had been given  the exact  figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs D would get if 
they made a successful  claim. But I think its unlikely their expectations about what  the policy 
would pay (an amount  sufficient to meet the monthly payment on the further advance) was 
significantly different to what the policy  actually did pay. What  it would pay was, if anything,  
more than they are likely to have  expected,  as there  was an additional cash  payment. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs D thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims for disability due to any pre-existing health  issue  (an issue 
Mr D knew or ought to have known  about at the policy start or for which in the 12 months 
before the policy start hed seen, arranged  to see or received treatment from a doctor)  
occurring or re-occurring during the first 24 months of cover;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  if Mr D wasnt a 
permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr D not only be unable  to do 
his own job but also be unable to do any similar job the insurer thought  he was or might  
reasonably become  qualified for in view of his training, education  and ability;  and
No benefit  was payable for the first 60 days of disability or unemployment,  and the policy 
protected payments for up to 12 months rather than the remaining term of the mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs D pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs D from taking the PPI. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr D was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr D wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  he was in permanent  
employment and didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions.  So, I think they still had 
some good  reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs D would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs D had known they could only claim for disability if Mr D were not only unable  to 
do his own job but also unable to do any similar job the insurer thought  he was or might  
Ref: DRN46652188reasonably become qualified for in view of his training, education  and ability,  it might have 
played into their thinking  about  what to do. And I accept it may have given them  pause  for 
thought  although its possible they may not have been overly concerned given  that if Mr D 
were unable (through disability) to carry on his own occupation the chances that he would  be 
able to take up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability,  be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs D the first 60 days of any disability or unemployment 
wouldnt be covered   and may not have  told them  any claim would be limited to a 12 month 
period. All this may have  differed from what Mr and Mrs D expected and mightve hoped for. 
But given their circumstances  and the substantial  loss of income they would suffer  if Mr D 
were too sick to work or made redundant, I consider it likely Mr and Mrs D would still have 
thought a policy that after 60 days paid the further advance  payments for up to 12 months, 
would be of benefit to them and would  help them manage the consequences if Mr D couldnt 
work in the circumstances covered  by the policy. The policy allowed multiple claims to be 
made and could help reduce Mr and Mrs Ds outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain time, 
helping to make it less likely their home would be put at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs D would still have  taken the policy. It was suitable for them,  sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr D were  made  redundant or unable to work through accident  
or sickness. In the circumstances,  I consider  it more likely than not Mr and Mrs D would have 
taken the policy in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ds representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken.
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs D would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they wouldve been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs D believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
Ref: DRN46652189represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs D in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible they would not have taken the policy,  I am 
satisfied that, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken the 
PPI had they been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy  they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Lloyds  should pay Mr and Mrs D compensation, as that would put them in a 
better position than they wouldve been in had everything had happened  as it should have. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs D think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2003  when providing information about  an insurance policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ds representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs D and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs D in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 October  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4665218