K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy  with a mortgage.  
background and summary to complaint
These events took place  a considerable time ago and so some of Mr and Mrs Gs 
recollections may not be right.  Weve still got access to certain documentation from the sale,  
but because of the time thats passed,  some aspects  of the case have had to be assessed 
on what is more likely  to have happened. Ive used a PPI policy document  I think would have 
been in use at the time, or in very close proximity  to the time, to help me think  about the 
terms and conditions provided by the cover.
We now know, for example, that Mr and Mrs G bought the PPI policy  in January 1996 and 
not in September 1991, as they thought they had. I note the PPI was taken out to help cover  
a joint-mortgage that had been in existence  since 1993. 
Its unclear if the sale of the PPI took place with a YBS representative  at Mr and Mrs Gs 
home address, as they also recall.  There  may indeed have been a face-to-face  discussion at 
some point with YBS,  but the documentation Ive seen shows the actual application was 
most probably a postal  one.
The policy also only appears  to have provided cover  for Mr G, rather than jointly as they 
recall. It covered him for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject  to its exclusions 
and limitations. It offered  to repay £400 a month towards Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage balance  
and associated costs,  in the event  of a successful claim.  At the time,  it cost around £28 a 
month. 
At the time of the sale, Mr G says he was employed as a manager. Its not entirely  clear  
whether he was entitled to employee benefits such as sick pay. However,  because  we know  
the sale was quite a few years later than he originally thought, he may have had certain 
redundancy benefits which I have kept in mind. Mr G told us he suffered from back pain in or 
around 1990.
YBS has sent in evidence to show that the mortgage account started in 1993 and closed in 
1999. Mr and Mrs Gs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on 
their behalf.  I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully.  
In summary,  Mr and Mrs Gs representative  says:
 
YBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs G 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Gs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN45457522claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means YBS should have told 
Mr and Mrs G about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means YBS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs G and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs G received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1999. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN45457523Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like YBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so YBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If YBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether YBS gave  Mr and Mrs G sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs G, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs G 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN45457524Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs G 
and YBS,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs G know they had a choice?
YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  Im satisfied this was done. Mr 
and Mrs G had already been  operating  a mortgage for some time without PPI, so it would 
have been obvious to them, in my view, that having such  a policy  wasnt compulsory and 
that they therefore had a choice. They also filled out a specific form which was clearly 
entitled MORTGAGE PAYMENT INSURANCE  NEW APPLICATION FORM.  The 
application was filled out with specific choices  made  about who was to be covered and for 
what. Mr G signed the PPI application  form, as did Mrs G as the joint-mortgage  holder.
As I also mentioned above, the style of application and the information  about sending it back  
strongly implies a postal  sale. As such,  I feel its likely Mr and Mrs G completed the form in 
their own time and without  any direct  intervention  from YBS. Taking  everything  into account, 
I think its much more  likely that Mr and Mrs G knew the policy was optional  and they agreed  
to take it out without undue pressure. 
did YBS provide advice?
On the questionnaire  we asked Mr and Mrs G to complete about their complaint, they 
werent able to be clear  about whether this PPI sale was an advised one. But as Ive said, 
the postal features strongly imply it was not an advised sale and so the decision about 
having PPI was for Mr and Mrs G themselves to make.
the information
Im satisfied its Mr and Mrs G were  given a broad description of what  the policy was 
intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if Mr G was unable to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) as these  things were  clearly set out on 
the application form. 
I cant see from the same form that the monthly costs  of the cover were set out, but as Ive 
previously said, I think  a discussion  could  have pre-empted the application process. Its also 
now over 24 years since the sale took place, so I think the costs would have been set out 
elsewhere, potentially  on documents  we no longer have access  to. 
However, I also note YBS says this policy was free for the first 6 months, an incentive I know  
was a regular  feature  of that time. Being initially free, I think the approximate  costs would 
have been discussed and then set out both at the time of the sale, and when the payments 
started to become  due. Mr and Mrs G would have been required to authorise these new  
costs to leave their bank  account, by signing a direct  debit (or similar) mandate.  I also think  
its very unlikely Mr and Mrs G would have independently taken out the policy on an existing 
mortgage without  any sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might be.
But I accept this doesnt tell us whether YBS gave sufficient information about  the actual cost 
or about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs G agreed  to take out the policy.  So I 
dont think its clear  enough that YBS gave  Mr and Mrs G sufficient, appropriate  and timely  
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
Ref: DRN45457525including drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Gs. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Gs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs G about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs G have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that YBS ought to have done either. 
what effect did YBSs shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs G? To what extent  did Mr and 
Mrs G suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that YBS didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs G. 
So, Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs G would have still taken out the policy, had YBS done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs G say they would not have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs G had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr G being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs G chose themselves to take this policy  out on a mortgage 
they already had in place. So I consider that its reasonable to conclude they had some 
interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But they may have made  this 
decision based on incomplete information.  So what Mr and Mrs G thought  they were getting 
may not have been exactly what they got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs G have suffered any loss or detriment. 
Ref: DRN45457526The information Mr and Mrs G were given  about  the policy benefits was clear  enough.  But 
the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr 
and Mrs G knew they would have to pay something  for the policy  - this was implied  on the 
application form - I cant say with certainty  that YBS told them the exact  premium  at the point 
they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs G would have been 
told the cost before the policy started  and they would have needed to set up a payment  
authority. They  also paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs were  
significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its likely they would  have 
raised that with YBS at the time or reconsidered  their decision. 
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs G would  have found the cost unacceptable,  even if 
they werent given  an exact figure  at the point of sale.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs G thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or diseases  that the 
policyholder knew  about or ought to have known about before the start date of the 
policy or for which they had received treatment or advice in the 12 months  prior to the 
start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if 
policyholder wasnt  a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mr and Mrs G pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs G from 
taking out the policy.  
However, the evidence  about Mr Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. 
Although Mr G says he had suffered from back pain from shortly  before the policy  was taken 
out - and the policy wouldnt have provided cover  had he needed  time off work because  of 
this condition  we now know the PPI was sold in 1996 rather than in 1991, when Mr and 
Mrs G thought it was sold. This pain or condition therefore pre-dated the actual PPI sale by 6 
years. Ive also considered the apparent nature of the medical  condition  and what  Mr G said 
about how it had affected him. And having considered this with care, I dont think  better 
information about this exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. 
I havent seen  any other  evidence  to suggest  Mr G wouldve been caught  by any of the other  
significant exclusions. He initially told us that he had a somewhat similar insurance policy  
already in place  at the time. However,  theres an indication this policy did not cover the same  
eventualities as the PPI he eventually  bought,  and as Ive said,  his perceptions of the time of 
Ref: DRN45457527the sale (1991)  are out of kilter  with the actual sale date (1996) by some  years.  Nor did Mr 
Gs representatives provide more  evidence or information about this other  cover  when we 
asked them to do so. 
So overall, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out. The policy did not 
exclude back or mental health conditions or place any additional restrictions or more  
onerous evidential  requirements in the event of a claim  on those grounds than would have 
applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr G would have expected  to 
make a disability claim on the policy without  first providing some  evidence to support that 
claim.
In my view, it was also clear enough  that any claim made  would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This was set out on the application form and it required Mr G himself  to select  it from 
a menu  of two different  options. In this sense  the policy did not differ from what he and Mrs 
G would have expected; it could help reduce  their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain time 
and ensure their home was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs G would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr G was made  redundant, or unable  to work through  accident 
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G would 
have taken out this policy  in any event,  notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Gs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs G would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Gs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs G found  themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs G believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN45457528Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs G in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude YBS should  pay Mr and Mrs G compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs G think YBS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
YBSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why YBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  YBS gave Mr and Mrs G, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1996  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Gs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find YBS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs G and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that YBS had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs G in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 March 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4545752