K821x#15complaint
Mr B says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold  him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy, it seems, that Mr B took out in 2006.  Neither  
party knows  how the policy was sold.   
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. HSBC disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint because:
In this particular  case, I havent  seen credible evidence that HSBC made it clear that 
Mr B had a choice about buying  the policy. I say this because  Mr B initially  
complained; I was totally unaware  that PPI was added  to my account. I believe this 
has been added without my agreement. 
HSBC cant confirm how the policy was sold and have referred  to their sales  process  
across different sales channels around  this time.
I simply havent seen any evidence that I feel I can rely on that shows the PPI was 
presented as optional or Mr Bs consent  to taking the PPI.
Ive taken into account HSBCs comments, including what its said in response to our 
adjudicators assessment.  But having  considered everything,  on balance, in this particular 
case I still think I should uphold the complaint as I cant safely  say that the PPI was 
presented as optional and that Mr B chose  to take it out.
putting things right
HSBC should  put Mr B in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.HSBC should find out how much Mr B would have owed when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
HSBC should  then refund the difference between  what Mr B owed  when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
Ref: DRN42576802If Mr B made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, HSBC  can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.HSBC should add simple interest on the difference between what  Mr B would have 
owed when he closed his account  from when  he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  HSBC  works out what Mr B would have owed each month without PPI  Mr B 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, HSBC  should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr B paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when  Mr B 
wouldve owed HSBC something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.HSBC should tell Mr B what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If HSBC has already repaid any commission amount to Mr B that relates to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted from the redress shown above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4257680