K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a secured loan Mrs and Mr R hold with Arrow Global Limited. They 
think the outstanding balance is too high; the reason  for this, they say, is that Arrow is 
adding monthly  interest despite a court order from 2013 that specified how much  they 
needed to pay each month to clear the debt. Mrs and Mr R are concerned that they may 
never be able to repay the loan in full.
background 
In what follows, Ive left out some  of the detail,  and also rounded some of the monetary 
amounts involved,  to avoid the risk of identifying the consumers  when  my decision is 
published. 
The loan started in 2004; it was arranged through a third party  intermediary with a lender Ill 
call G, to repay an existing debt and raise  some cash. The loan was for £24,000, with 
payment protection insurance (PPI),  the cost of which was added  to the loan,  bringing  the 
total opening debt to around £28,500. The loan was intended to be repaid over fifteen years 
with monthly payments  of just over £314,  assuming there were  no changes  in interest rates  
and all payments were made in full and on time. 
Unfortunately, Mrs and Mr R struggled to meet the repayments, and arrears accrued. G took 
them to court in late 2005 and obtained  a suspended possession order (SPO). The order 
wasnt enforced but Mrs and Mr Rs financial difficulties continued, to the extent that no 
payments were received between 2009 and 2013.  G took them back  to court in March  2013; 
by this time,  the overall balance  had increased to around  £51,000, of which  more  than 
£19,000 was arrears. 
The court issued a second SPO, which Ill refer to from here as the 2013 SPO.  The court 
ordered Mrs and Mr R to pay the contractual monthly payment (CMP) plus an extra  £240  
each month  towards  the arrears. That meant Mrs and Mr R paying £554 a month,  and they 
say they took this to mean that if they kept to the arrangement, theyd repay the debt in full 
by the scheduled term end in late 2019. However,  thats not how things have  turned out.
In 2014, Mrs and Mr R brought a complaint to us about how G was managing  the debt 
following the 2013 SPO. The main thrust of that complaint was that G had added unfair 
charges and continued adding interest which would mean the balance wouldnt be cleared 
despite them  making the payments ordered  by the court. One of my fellow ombudsmen 
decided that complaint, saying, in summary:  
a small number of arrears charges had been applied  unfairly  and should be refunded; 
and
whether or not the 2013 SPO allowed G to continue applying  interest  was a question 
best dealt with by the court rather than this service. 
In 2015, Mrs and Mr R had a PPI mis-selling complaint upheld, and G made refunds to the 
loan account.  Then,  in 2016, as part of a wider disposal  of its lending portfolio, G transferred 
the loan to Arrow. 
In October  2017, Mr R had a phone conversation with Arrow; he and Mrs R were getting 
very concerned that the loan balance appeared not to be reducing as much as they thought 
it should be. The call handler explained  that although they were paying  the £554  every 
Ref: DRN44669872month, the addition of new interest  meant the balance was only falling by about  £70 each  
month. Mr R said that shouldnt be happening because the court order  didnt allow  it.
Mrs and Mr R contacted  us in 2018 to complain about the transfer to Arrow, that the 
continued addition  of interest  was preventing them  from repaying the balance in accordance  
with the 2013 SPO,  and that the CMP hadnt  been  reduced after the PPI refund.  By now,  
they were both suffering from ill health,  made worse in their opinion by the stress of the 
situation with Arrow
Our consideration of the complaint got off to a slow start;  there was some initial  confusion  
over whether  Mrs and Mr R had been  in touch with Arrow before contacting  us. Then,  after 
that had been cleared up, Arrow objected to some of our lines of enquiry, saying that they 
were new points that it hadnt  yet investigated. 
Meanwhile, the investigator to whom the complaint had first been  assigned was unable  to 
continue with it and it was reallocated. Eventually, in December 2018,  an ombudsman  
colleague issued  a decision saying that we had jurisdiction to consider all of the points,  as 
they all went back to Mrs and Mr Rs over- arching complaint that the loan balance  was too 
high and not coming down as quickly as it should.
The new investigators  enquiries established  that there was an underlying  problem with the 
CMP. Hed been looking into why it hadnt come down after the PPI refund; what he actually 
discovered was that over the years  of underpayments, extra charges and interest,  the 
original CMP should  have been  recalculated upwards in order  to ensure the loan could still 
be repaid on time. That had never  happened; the CMP had always remained at the original 
opening amount  of just over £314. 
The investigator issued  his findings  on the complaint in April of this year.  He didnt comment 
on everything; he explained  that he wouldnt revisit  anything that wed decided  in the 2014 
complaint, nor would  he interfere with or change  what the court  had said in 2013.  As far as 
the transfer from G to Arrow was concerned, he said this was allowed under the terms of the 
contract.
Regarding the CMP, he explained that if had been  recalculated after the PPI refund, it would 
have gone up rather than down, because all of the historic arrears and added  charges would 
have been factored in. That increase, if it had happened, would almost certainly have  been  
unaffordable for Mrs and Mr R. 
What was really needed was proper engagement between Arrow and Mrs and Mr R, and 
although there had been  dialogue and payment arrangements, none of this had dealt with 
the underlying  problem  with the CMP being  too low. Despite all this, the investigator wasnt 
persuaded Mrs and Mr Rs position  was worse  than it would have been if Arrow had been 
clearer in its information.  Thats  because,  by their own admission, Mrs and Mr R would never  
have been able to afford  the correct  CMP if it had been recalculated from time to time to 
factor in the historic arrears and extra  charges.
But the investigator did say Arrow should pay Mrs and Mr R compensation  for the lack of 
clear and consistent information; he recommended £250, which Arrow agreed to pay. 
Mrs and Mr R asked for the complaint to re reviewed by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN44669873my findings
Ive not gone into great  detail in setting  out what the complaint is about. Thats deliberate;  
ours is an informal service  for resolving disputes between financial businesses  and their 
customers. Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on 
what I think is relevant. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  I assure  the 
parties that Ive considered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with the transfer of the loan from G to Arrow. Im satisfied the investigator reached 
the right conclusion. Its a standard  term in lending contracts that a lender has the right to 
transfer a debt to another business. Its a provision that allows businesses to make  strategic  
decisions about their continued activity in a particular sector of the financial services market.  
In most cases, a lender  will sell a portfolio of loan accounts to another business,  and the 
most common reason  for doing so is that original  business no longer wants to continue 
trading in that sector. Thats what happened with G; the transfer to Arrow didnt involve any 
change to the underlying  contract with Mrs and Mr R and theyre not in a worse  position 
simply because of the transfer.
The rest of the complaint is more complex to navigate, but again Im satisfied the 
investigators conclusions  were the right ones. Ill explain why.
Mrs and Mr R pin all of their arguments on the 2013  SPO, and I understand why theyd do 
that; after all, a court order is a powerful instrument. Indeed, its for that very reason that our 
rules say that generally, we wont second-guess or interfere  with what a court  has said. Our 
rules also say that we wont revisit something  weve already decided. I dont intend to do 
either of those things,  but I will offer some  context on how the 2013 SPO and my colleagues 
decision on the 2014 complaint impact on the current situation and my remit to decide it.
On the question about the interest thats been charged since  the 2013 SPO, the starting 
point is that the contract allows for interest  to be charged on the outstanding balance until it 
is repaid. Thats a core principle of lending money,  so if a court is going to decide a lender 
cant do that, Id expect the order  to say so explicitly. 
In this case, the 2013 SPO didnt  say anything about the underlying right to charge interest. 
Its not possible to know if the court intended  to modify Gs right to charge interest. The only 
body that could answer that question is the court itself. Thats why, in his decision on the 
2014 complaint,  my fellow ombudsman said the matter was best dealt with by the court, and 
I have no intention of saying otherwise.  
What the 2013  SPO  did explicitly say is that G should have possession of the property  
suspended on condition Mrs and Mr R paid the CMP plus £240.  Again, it didnt explicitly  say 
that if they did that, theyd be debt free by the term end. Nor, critically, did the 2013 SPO  say 
how much  the CMP was, or how much it should  be. It wasnt  apparent at the time, either to 
Ref: DRN44669874Mrs and Mr R or the court, that the CMP the court relied as the basis  for the 2013 SPO was 
too low. 
But that presents  me with a similar  problem to that of the right to charge interest. If the 2013  
SPO was based on an incomplete  understanding  on the courts part of Gs accounting 
procedures, I have  very grave misgivings with the idea of second-guessing what the court 
would have decided  in 2013 if it had known the CMP on which  it relying was artificially  low. It 
seems to me that only the court should  be allowed  to revisit that question.  
It may be that whats needed  here is for the case to go back to court.  Fresh legal action 
might be the opportunity for the court to revisit the 2013 SPO  order,  and everything thats 
happened since, in the light of what is now known  about the CMP. Arrow will no doubt tell 
the court why it believes it should be granted possession of the mortgaged  property. 
But Mrs and Mr R will be able to tell the court that, despite their best efforts  to bring the 
arrears down in accordance with the 2013  SPO, the overall debt has barely  fallen. Theyll  be 
able to argue their belief that interest shouldnt have been charged after the 2013 SPO.  The 
court can listen to everything both sides say, reflect on the underlying  problem with the CMP 
and how things have  developed since the 2013 SPO, and make a fresh  decision on what 
should happen now.
It might seem  drastic and alarming  to suggest  that new court  action is the best way forward, 
but given Mrs and Mr Rs insistence that the courts word should be paramount, it may be 
the only way forward.  
This is a difficult situation for Mrs and Mr G; theyve struggled for a long time to keep their 
family home. The pressure to do that must have been immense, and Im not unsympathetic  
towards their broader position, which is made  worse  by their current health  problems. 
Arrows communication hasnt always been as clear as it could have been, but in fairness it 
has tried to tell Mrs and Mr R that their current level of payments wasnt  enough to clear the 
debt any time soon. I understand why Mrs and Mr R have resisted accepting that truth,  
preferring instead  to rely on their flawed understanding of the 2013  SPO.  The real situation 
isnt easy for a lay person to understand, and Im not sure thing would have been materially  
different if Arrow had been able to present a clearer picture. I also have to take account of 
the fact that Arrow has only held Mrs and Mr Rs account since  2016, and the majority of the 
problems that led to their current  position  are the legacy  of events that pre-date Arrows 
involvement. 
Nonetheless, I agree with the investigator that some  compensation for the shortcomings in 
its handling of the dialogue  (and the complaint) is warranted; in all the circumstances,  I find 
£250 to be fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part only. In 
full and final settlement,  I direct Arrow  Global  Limited to pay Mrs and Mr R £250. I make  no 
other order or award.
Ref: DRN44669875Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2019.  
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4466987