K820x#14complaint
Ms P says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms P was sold the policy  when she took out a loan in 1995. To pay for the PPI, Ms P added 
it onto the loan as an upfront cost. This is called a single premium policy. It covered her 
loan payments in case Ms P was off work  sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ps case.
Having done that, I dont  think  Ms Ps PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ms Ps loan agreement had a section for PPI. It described the policy  as optional and had 
two options to choose from: one to take the policy and one to turn it down. The option to buy 
PPI was ticked. Ms P said it wasnt her handwriting, but even if that is the case I think  the 
agreement wouldve been discussed while being filled out, since  it has some of Ms Ps 
personal details  and details about the loan she wanted. So I think  its most likely that the 
section for PPI was discussed too. It doesnt seem to be in dispute that Ms P agreed to the 
loan, and Ms P has confirmed she got a copy of the agreement, so I think  she wouldve 
known what she was taking out  including  the PPI. Overall, I think that Lloyds made Ms P 
aware she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it out at the time.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms P, so it had to check it was right for her. And based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example,  Ms P doesnt 
seem to have been affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. The PPI 
covered her for far longer  than her sick pay lasted, and it doesnt  look like Ms P had any 
other cover in case she lost her job. So the policy couldve really  been useful for Ms P in 
case she was off work sick or out of work.  And while Ms P wouldve only got back  a limited 
refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the policy early, I havent  seen anything to 
suggest she thought shed repay the loan early at the time of the sale.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. Here, it looks like Ms P chose to take out the policy, which  implies she wanted this 
type of cover. As I explained above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the main 
things the PPI didnt cover; Ive not seen any indication she was planning to repay the loan 
early at the time of the sale; and the policy couldve been useful for Ms P in case something 
went wrong. And given  how long the PPI could  have paid out for, if Ms P made a successful 
claim she couldve got back quite  a bit more than she paid for it. So overall,  I dont think  
better information about the PPI was likely  to have put Ms P off taking it out. 
Ref: DRN41291582my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Ms Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4129158