K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 2000. Mrs B says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
background
Ive previously issued  a provisional decision  on Mrs Bs complaint, explaining that Id come to a 
different outcome to our adjudicator.
The details of this complaint and my provisional findings can be found in my provisional 
decision which Ive attached below and forms part of this final decision.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither FICL  nor Mrs B has responded to my provisional decision  so I see no reason to 
depart from it.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  by 5 August 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40028162provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out with a store  card in 
2000. Mrs B says Financial  Insurance Company  Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the PPI.
Mrs B took out the store card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken responsibility for the sale, and 
for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld  but I currently dont think  it should. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mrs B, so Ill explain why.
Mrs B says that she wasnt aware that she was paying for PPI. FICL  has provided  a copy  of Mrs Bs 
store card application, and I can see that the PPI is presented as optional, and Mrs B has signed  to 
select it  this is separate to her signature for taking out the card. So I think FICL  made  it clear  that 
Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
she may not remember this as it was so long ago.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have 
to make sure Mrs B got the information  she needed to decide  if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But 
she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted this type of cover. Based  on what Ive seen 
of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions  to or 
limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about  the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover. 
When our adjudicator looked at the complaint, they felt that Mrs B had cover in place through her 
employers sick pay scheme and savings  that meant she couldve made  her store card repayments 
for a while  so she didnt  need the PPI. But FICL then responded and provided evidence that when  
Mrs B originally made her complaint to them she detailed on the documentation  provided that she had 
half the sick pay entitlement she had told us and didnt declare any savings.
Its not surprising that Mrs B may not recall exactly what she had in place at the time as it was nearly  
20 years ago, but because of this, I cant safely reach the same  conclusion as our adjudicator  and 
feel that the PPI may actually have  provided  more cover  than she already had in place. Mrs Bs 
employer is still in business   she may wish to approach them in order to clarify the cover she had at 
the time.
my provisional  decision
I currently dont intend on upholding  this complaint.  FICL and Mrs B can send me anything else they 
wish me to consider before  24 June  2019. After which I will issue my final decision.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4002816