K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains that the value of her pension has fallen from £56,000 to £20,000. She 
thinks she was mis-sold the investments made in the pension  by Sebastian & St James 
International Financial  Advisers  Limited (SSJ). 
background
In late 2012 Mrs T was advised to transfer  her existing  pension to a Self-Invested  Personal  
Pension (SIPP). The advice was given by an IFA based in the UK Ill call IFA1. IFA1s 
business was novated  to SSJ on 9 January 2013. This essentially meant IFA1  became  part 
of SSJ. SSJ is a business based in Ireland. 
Around £56,000 was transferred to the SIPP from Mrs Ts existing  pension  on 2 January 
2013 and, on 22 January  2013, instructions were given to the SIPP  operator  to invest  
£15,000 each  in two unregulated collective investment schemes  (UCIS)  New Earth  
Recycling and UK Secured  Finance.  The instructions were given on SSJ headed paper by 
the advisor that had acted for IFA1 in relation to the original transfer to the SIPP.  When  
accepting the instructions  the SIPP operator recorded the investment advisor as SSJ. The 
investments later failed  and are now assumed to be worthless. This prompted Mrs Ts 
complaint. When making her complaint Mrs T said she was advised to make  the UCIS 
investments by SSJ,  and had understood them to be low risk. 
Mrs Ts complaint was initially made to SSJ in late 2015. SSJ responded to the complaint  in 
February 2016. Its response simply said it wasnt responsible for Mrs Ts pension,  and gave 
Mrs T the right to refer her complaint to the Irish Financial Ombudsman Service.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He concluded it was one we could look at, as 
there was a regulated activity, SSJ was an incoming EEA firm (in this instance  it was 
operating from a UK office  the former office of IFA1),  and no time limit had been put on 
Mrs Ts right to refer to this service (as Mrs T had not been made aware  of that right). In 
relation the merits  of Mrs Ts complaint the investigator said,  in summary:
SSJ had given  the instructions to invest in the UCIS and, when doing so, the advisor 
had said to the SIPP operator  that:
I confirm  I have discussed  the [investments] in detail with my client and advised her 
on the nature of the investment and the risk associated with it.
I confirm that I am aware of the FSA rules and principal relating to the promoting 
of, and providing investment advice on, unregulated  collective investment schemes 
and can confirm that my client is categorised as <a certified sophisticated investor 
and/or a certified high net worth individual> as described in the Financial  Services 
and Markets Act 2000
SSJ had been asked to comment on this, and had maintained no advice had been 
given by it  insisting that it only did what it had to do to meet  the requirements of the 
SIPP operator. 
The evidence indicates Mrs T thought  the investments were low risk. Hed not seen 
anything to show that she was made aware  of the significant  risks involved.
Ref: DRN45168412Mrs T is not someone who would have  either  the willingness to accept,  nor the ability  
to bear the risk, of investing a significant portion of their retirement  provisions in the 
UCIS. 
If advice was given  by SSJ, then it was not suitable. Even if it was accepted advice 
was not given, then SSJ carelessly arranged for Mrs Ts SIPP to be invested  in the 
UCIS. 
Had SSJ carried out its role in line with its regulatory obligations, Mrs T would not 
have invested  in the two UCIS. So SSJs  action has caused Mrs T significant loss, 
and it ought to compensate her accordingly.  
SSJ did not accept this view. It said its letter  responding to Mrs Ts complaint meets the 
requirements of the regulations in Ireland, where it is based. It also said it didnt think  we had 
followed the correct  procedure when looking at Mrs Ts complaint. 
The investigator was not persuaded to change his view, so the complaint  has been referred 
to me for investigation. 
my findings
Ive first considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whether this 
complaint is one we can look at. I am satisfied it is. Mrs T is an eligible complainant.  She 
was a customer of SSJ  it was the financial advisor to her SIPP,  and received ongoing 
commission from her SIPP from the SIPP operator. She is bringing a complaint about  a 
regulated activity carried on from an establishment in the United Kingdom. Her complaint is 
about the advice on and arrangement of collective investment scheme investments in a 
personal pension  (her SIPP). And the advisor  was working out of an office in Cardiff  when 
doing this. 
SSJ is also a firm we can consider complaints against as it is an incoming EEA firm. Finally, 
I am satisfied that Mrs T has not failed to meet  any time limits. She made her complaint 
within six years of the event it is about, and she was not given  any rights of referral to this 
service when SSJ issued its very brief response to her complaint. So no time limit was put 
on making a referral to this service. 
As I am satisfied I can look at Mrs Ts complaint, Ive considered all the available  evidence  
and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.  
Having done so, I have reached  broadly the same conclusions as the investigator. 
To confirm, I have not seen any evidence to show SSJ was involved in the original transfer  
to the SIPP.  So I am only looking here at the two UCIS investments made in the SIPP after 
the transfer completed, which were instructed by SSJ.  
The investigator said SSJ at least made arrangements to make  the UCIS investments  in the 
SIPP, implying that he thought it likely  it gave  advice too. I agree. The instructions to make 
the UCIS  investments came from SSJ.  I think it very unlikely Mrs T  who has very little 
investment experience  came up with the idea of making these investments of her own 
volition. I think it more  likely they were recommended  to her. And that is her recollection.  
If SSJ did give advice,  that advice was clearly  unsuitable. Both of the UCIS recommended  
were unregulated and esoteric. They were high risk and only suitable for a small portion of 
Ref: DRN45168413the portfolio of a sophisticated  investor. They were not suitable for the investment of a 
significant portion  of Mrs Ts pension provision. 
Even if SSJ did not give advice, like the investigator, I think it is still fair and reasonable to 
uphold this complaint.  As noted  above,  when SSJ gave the instructions  to invest  in the UCIS  
its advisor told the SIPP operator that:
I confirm  I have discussed  the [investments] in detail with my client and advised her on the 
nature of the investment  and the risk associated with it.
I confirm that I am aware of the FSA rules and principal relating to the promoting of, and 
providing investment  advice on, unregulated collective investment schemes and can confirm  
that my client is categorised as [a certified sophisticated investor and/or a certified high net 
worth individual] as described in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
Ive not seen any evidence to show SSJ did these things. Mrs T does not appear  to meet the 
criteria for a sophisticated or high net worth  investor.  And she appears to have had no 
understanding of the risks involved with the investments. SSJ says it only provided the 
above confirmation because the SIPP operator  asked it to do so, suggesting  it just signed 
the form without actually doing what was required. 
I am satisfied that if SSJ had taken the steps  it was required  to, the investments would not 
have been made. It would have discovered Mrs T did not meet  the criteria required for 
investments of this type. And I think it unlikely Mrs T would have made the investments had 
she understood the high risk associated with them.  
All in all, for the reasons given, I think it is fair and reasonable  to uphold this complaint. 
fair compensation
Mrs T also made another  complaint to the SIPP operator about its acceptance of the 
investment instructions from SSJ (on the basis that SSJ didnt have the correct regulatory 
permissions to give such instructions). The investigator looked into that complaint  as well as 
this complaint against SSJ. He concluded that it would be fair to say that either SSJ or the 
SIPP operator was responsible for Mrs Ts loss, as SSJ should  not have  given the 
instructions and the SIPP operator should not have accepted them. But that it seemed fair, 
as he was looking at both complaints, to ask each  to compensate  half of Mrs Ts loss. 
The SIPP operator  has compensated Mrs T for half her loss (at the time of calculation), 
using the method of loss calculation suggested  by the investigator.  I think that method of 
loss calculation was fair. And, like the investigator, I think it fair to hold SSJ responsible  for 
Mrs Ts loss. So SSJ should calculate  Mrs Ts loss as of the date of this decision, and pay 
that amount  less what the SIPP operator has already paid to Mrs T. 
To confirm, the loss calculation should  be carried out by comparing  the total return Mrs T 
received from the two investments to the total return that would have been received had the 
invested amounts  received the return offered by the FTSE UK Private Investors  Income 
Total Return Index.  I am satisfied that index offers a fair measure of the likely return  Mrs T 
would have received, had the investments not been  made. 
This comparison should be carried out from the date the investments were made to the date 
of this decision. The difference will be the compensation payable. I understand that neither 
Ref: DRN45168414investment has a realisable value, so no allowance should be made for that. The value of the 
investments should  be assumed to be nil when this comparison is carried out. SSJ can, if it 
wishes, ask Mrs T to undertake to pay to it any future returns she may receive from the 
investments. 
The compensation should be paid into Mrs Ts pension  to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The payment  should allow for the effect  of charges 
and any available  tax relief. The payment shouldnt be made into the pension if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If SSJ is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs Ts pension,  it should pay it direct  to her. 
But, had it been  possible to pay into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income 
when withdrawn. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs Ts actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected  retirement age. For example,  if Mrs T is likely to be a basic  rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic  rate of 
tax. However, if Mrs T would have been  able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
If SSJ does not pay compensation within 28 days of being notified of Mrs Ts acceptance  of 
my decision  interest, at the rate of 8% simple,  should be paid on the amount of 
compensation, payable from the date of my decision, to the date of payment. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If SSJ considers that it is required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income  tax from any interest payable, it should tell Mrs T how 
much it has taken off. It should  also give Mrs T a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
The investigator also suggested SSJ should  pay Mrs T £150 for the trouble and upset she 
has been caused. I think that is fair. So SSJ should  pay Mrs T that amount too.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold the complaint. Sebastian & St James International Financial 
Advisers Limited should calculate and pay compensation as described above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4516841