K821x#15Complaint
Mr N complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
I issued a provisional decision on 22 October  2020  setting out a detailed background to this 
complaint. My provisional decision is attached  at the end of this final decision and forms part 
of my final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  to both parties that I was inclined to reach  different 
conclusions to the adjudicator and gave both parties  the opportunity to provide further 
comments.
The deadline  for response has now passed. Mr N responded saying he agreed with my 
provisional decision and had nothing further to add L2G didnt respond.
My findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided further  information  and evidence  to change  the conclusions  I 
reached in my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from those conclusions.
I think L2G lent to Mr N when it shouldnt have done so.
Putting things  right  what  L2G needs to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr N paid towards  the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges 
from the date they were paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  about  the loan from Mr Ns credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires L2G to take off tax from this interest.  L2G must 
give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ns complaint  and require Loans 2 Go Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2021.
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN49967092Excerpts from my provisional decision
Background
From the information provided by both parties, L2G lent Mr N one loan in November 2015.  The 
loan was for £1,000 due to be repaid  over 18 monthly instalments of £180.56,  the total amount 
due to be repaid under the agreement was £3,250.
Mr N complained to L2G but when he didnt receive a response, he referred the complaint to this 
service. L2G then responded to Mr Ns complaint but didnt uphold his complaint and said that it 
carried out proportionate  checks which  suggested  that Mr N could afford  the loan.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at what both parties said and thought that L2G didnt do enough 
before lending to Mr N. However, the adjudicator  thought  that had L2G carried out proportionate 
checks, its likely to have found that Mr N could afford the loan and so she didnt recommend that 
the complaint be upheld.
Mr N disagreed, he said his outgoings exceeded his income and so he was unable to afford the 
loan and L2G should have  known  this and not lent to him.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before lending  money  to a consumer,  a lender  should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether  the consumer will be able to repay  what theyre  borrowing  in a 
sustainable manner  without it adversely  impacting on their financial situation.
A lender  should gather  enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on the 
lending. Although the guidance and rules  themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, they did list a 
number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that 
any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account  a number of different things,  
including things such as how much was being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to 
be repaid.
L2G says it checked Mr Ns income and verified this by requesting pay slips,  it recorded Mr Ns 
income as £3,010 per month.  L2G also says it searched Mr Ns credit file and has provided the 
results of its search and from what I can see, Mr N had no defaults or bankruptcy recorded  on 
his file. L2G also asked Mr N about his living  costs and credit commitments. It recorded  Mr Ns 
monthly credit commitment  as £367 and his monthly living costs including rent, utilities etc. as 
£1,362. It added a buffer of £60 to Mr Ns expenses and based on this information Mr N had 
enough disposable income to repay the loan over the term.
I can see that this was Mr Ns first and only loan with L2G and so from the available information, 
Mr N didnt have a previous  lending history with L2G.  I note that the loan was for £1,000 but Im 
also mindful that the term of the loan was 18 months and given this length of time,  I think it would  
have been reasonable  for L2G to get a thorough understanding of Mr Ns financial circumstances. 
I note that it verified his income, but I think it should have verified some of the expenses  Mr N 
declared as well. As it didnt do this, I think its checks didnt go far enough.
Mr N has provided a copy of his bank statement  around the time of the loan and Ive relied on this to 
understand Mr Ns financial  circumstances at the time. I can see that Mr Ns income  was similar to 
the amount declared at the time of application.  And while the bank  statements show that Mr Ns 
living costs were  similar to what hed declared  to L2G, his credit commitments were higher than what  
L2G took into account.
Ref: DRN49967093I think  that had L2G carried out proportionate checks in these  circumstances, it is likely to have 
found that in addition to at least three credit card repayments Mr N was making, he was also 
repaying at least five other lenders including short term lenders. Mr N was regularly spending what I 
consider to be a substantial portion of his income  on repaying credit.  In the month before he took out 
this loan, Mr N repaid around £1,620 on repaying credit and Mr Ns total expenses  outweighed his 
income. Mr Ns the bank  statement also shows that he continued to borrow  from other creditors and 
at the time the loan was approved, he still had at least £680 outstanding in short term loans.
Given the level of credit  Mr N had and was regularly repaying  including the regular use of short-
term loans,  I think L2G should reasonably have known  that Mr N was likely  to struggle to 
sustainably repay the loan over the term and it shouldnt  have lent to him.
So, I dont agree  that the loan was lent responsibly and L2G needs to put things right.
Ref: DRN4996709