K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about Haven Insurance Company  Limiteds handling of his taxi 
insurance policy.
Reference to Haven includes their agents.
background
Mr H had taxi insurance  with Haven. His policies were either  weekly or monthly which  he 
regularly renewed.  
Sometime in 2018, Mr H moved  to another city and changed the policy  address for his car. 
His monthly premium increased  by almost £30 because of the change  of address. Mr H 
didnt think that was fair. He decided to leave  Haven and get cover  elsewhere. He asked 
Haven to give him proof of his no claims bonus (NCB) for the time he was insured with them. 
But Haven said he didnt earn any NCB  with them because he had short  term policies and 
that only annual  policies were given NCB.
Mr H complained but Haven didnt uphold  it. Mr H didn't think that was fair and brought  his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  looked into the complaint. He felt that Haven had 
treated Mr H fairly. As Mr H didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been  passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr H, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr H has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered  all those  
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Haven have dealt with Mr H in a fair and reasonable way.
increase in premium  because of the change  of address
Mr H believes  the increase to his premium was unfair because the city he moved to was 
safer than the area he had his car registered at before. It might help if I explain that we're not 
the industry regulator. That means it's not my role to tell an insurer how much  they can 
charge for their policies. And our service generally takes the view that, providing  they treat 
people fairly  - that is they treat customers with similar circumstances in the same way - 
insurers are entitled  to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
Mr Hs premium did go up. So I can understand why he was concerned. But just because his 
premium has increased, I don't think that means that Haven have treated him unfairly. 
Haven provided  me with information to show how Mr Hs premium has increased. That 
information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with Mr H. But having looked  at it 
carefully, Im satisfied that Haven treated Mr H in the same way as they would other  
policyholders in similar circumstances.  So I think they calculated  his premium  reasonably.
When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they will have to pay out for those.  And its not down to me to 
Ref: DRN43763172tell insurers what factors they should take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go 
about those assessments.  Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk 
and the extent of those.  Thats essentially a matter of commercial  judgement,  balancing risk 
against the need to compete with other  policies  on offer, and not something  we would 
usually think its fair to interfere with. 
Some insurers say that statistically  certain  areas pose a higher risk than others. That may be 
because of crime figures and incidents  that occur  within those areas. As insurance is 
essentially an assessment of risk, I dont  think theres anything wrong with insurers 
considering whether or not certain  areas fall into higher risk groupings.  
I can understand why Mr H feels thats  unfair.  But, like most insurers,  Haven have based 
their decision  on statistical data and have said the new post code  Mr H registered his car at 
was a higher risk area.  I therefore think Haven acted reasonably.
no claims bonus (NCB)
I understand that Mr H wanted Haven to give him written confirmation that he had earned 
two years of NCB between April 2016 and April 2018. Haven said he hadnt  earned any NCB 
during that period.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Hs policy say that NCB cant be earned if the policy  is less 
than 12 months. Mr Hs policies were all less than 12 months. They  were weekly  or monthly. 
So under the policy  he couldnt  get NCB. 
Mr H told us that Haven  never made him aware  that he couldnt get NCB for his policies. But 
Haven provided  our service with two separate calls during which Haven told Mr H he couldnt  
get NCB  for his policies. I therefore think Haven have acted reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.    
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4376317