K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited  has wrongly  
and unfairly insisted on a doubling of the premium  on her income protection  policy  after she 
made a claim on it. She is also unhappy  with how it dealt with her claim.
background
An adjudicator at this service  said that the policy was a whole-of-life  assurance policy  which 
included critical illness cover and income protection.
She felt that Sun Life was entitled  under the terms and conditions  to review the 
premiums to ensure  they were sufficient  to pay for the ongoing  cost of the various  elements  
of cover,  and increase them as necessary. She explained that the recent premium rise was 
not a result of a claim Mrs S had made but was solely due to the standard review process 
whereby a business assessing what premium is needed to keep the current level of cover.
She said Mrs S had complained about the reviewability issue (and other  matters) in 2009 but 
had not referred  her complaint to this service (after  Sun Life rejected it). We therefore  could  
not now consider  this issue 10 years later  according to the relevant time limits which apply.
She also said that Mrs S had complained  previously  about how Sun Life had handled  her 
claim and the amount  it had paid, and this had been considered  by this service.  So we could 
not look at this issue again.
She therefore felt the only issue we could consider was the recent  doubling of the premium, 
allegedly due to Mrs S having made a claim under the income  protection element. She felt 
Sun Life was entitled to increase the premium, after a review,  and that this hadnt been due 
to Mrs Ss claim, so she did not believe the complaint  should  be upheld.
Mrs S did not agree,  and said that Sun Life should not be allowed to double  the cost of the 
premium simply  because  someone was getting  older.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
I fully understand  why Mrs S might have  thought  that Sun Life put up the premiums  after she 
made a claim but I am satisfied that this wasnt the case, and that this would not have  been  
permissible under the relevant terms and conditions.
Instead, the large rise in Mrs Ss premium was a result of Sun Lifes review of the policys  
financial sustainability i.e. to ensure  the premium was sufficient to pay for the annual  life and 
critical illness cover going forward. It is clearly very problematic for policyholders to face 
increases, particularly large  ones, as they get older but unfortunately this is how many types 
of insurance policies work. 
When Mrs S took out the policy investment returns were very much better and predicted to 
continue so Sun Life would not have known that her premiums would have to rise by so 
Ref: DRN47128312much several decades later. However,  the paperwork would have made clear that the 
premiums would be reviewed after a set period of time, and that they may need to increase.
So I cannot fairly or reasonably say that Sun Life has done anything wrong. From what  Ive 
read, it simply recalculated the future cost of providing life, critical illness and income 
protection cover in order to work out how much Mrs S needed  to pay to keep the policy 
going. It is entitled to do this even if the resultant increase seems unreasonable  or 
unaffordable. 
As the adjudicator said, Mrs Ss other complaints have  previously  been  addressed  so I 
cannot look at them again.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4712831