K820x#14complaint
Mrs O has complained, through her representative  (her daughter),  about  the sale of a 
personal pension  by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax).
background
Mrs O took out a personal pension with Halifax in 1998. She took benefits from the policy in 
2005. She was paid a tax free lump sum of £3,242.14 on 27 August 2005. Mrs O used the 
balance of the pension fund - £9,726.43  - to buy an annuity.
Mrs O later complained about the annuity purchase. She felt she should have bought an 
enhanced annuity because of health  issues. And that she should have been offered the 
opportunity to take her full fund under the triviality provisions. We didnt uphold that 
complaint, largely  on the basis that Mrs O hadnt taken any advice  when shed bought the 
annuity. 
Mrs Os current  complaint  is about  the sale of the policy  in 1998. Mrs Os representative  
says the pension wasnt affordable for Mrs O and she struggled to maintain the monthly 
contributions. She suggested Mrs Os contributions  should be refunded to her with interest.  
Halifax upheld the complaint. It said the advice to take out a pension  policy  was suitable  
because Mrs O didnt have any retirement savings but Halifax  recognised the affordability 
point and that Mrs Os pension contributions had been made at the expense  of other 
commitments. 
Halifax undertook  a loss calculation  to see if Mrs O had been financially disadvantaged. A 
refund of her pension  contributions made between 1 July 1998 and 1 August 2005 would be 
£10,146.70. Adding an investment return (based on Bank of England base rate) of 
£1,768.65 made a total of £11,915.35. Mrs O had received  a lump sum of £3,242.14 and her 
residual fund was £9,726.43  so a total of £12,968.57. That meant shed made  a gain of 
£1,053.22.
Halifax offered £150 for distress and inconvenience  which it later increased  by a further £500 
in recognition of the fact that Mrs O didnt  have access to her fund.
When the complaint  was referred to us, our investigator agreed that the pension  was 
unsuitable for Mrs O based on affordability. She was in arrears  with her mortgage  at the time 
and shed have  been better off using the money  towards her mortgage  payments. The exact 
impact of Mrs O making pension contributions instead wasnt  easy  to ascertain. The 
investigator said Halifax should recalculate its offer based on 8% interest being added  to 
each contribution from the date paid. Mrs Os representative had said Mrs Os contributions 
should be returned to her. But the investigator  said Mrs O had been  paid tax free cash  in 
2005 and annuity payments since then and it was fair for Halifax  to take those payments into 
account. 
Halifax revised the calculation but it still showed  that Mrs O had made  a gain. 
The investigator said she was satisfied that Mrs O was still better  off by having the pension.  
And the £650  for trouble and upset  was sufficient. So Halifax  didnt need to do anymore. 
Ref: DRN40689112Mrs Os representative didnt agree that £650  was sufficient.  She said Mrs Os retirement 
had been ruined due to the admitted incorrect and destructive advice  given by Halifax. 
She also said shed  sent in some medical information which she'd asked to be taken into 
consideration but she hadn't had a response about  that. And shed been in touch with the 
media who were showing some interest  although  shed only want  to go down that route as a 
last resort. She was very unhappy with the impact  of all this on Mrs Os health. Shed  worked  
very hard for many  years and could have used the money for something like a cruise. She 
didnt understand  how Halifax and us could agree that Halifax  had got it wrong and do 
nothing about  it when Mrs Os whole life was destroyed. Shed struggled  to make the 
payments and had been misled. £500  wasnt enough for that. 
The investigator apologised  for not responding to the further  information.  But she still thought  
£650 was enough. She didnt dispute  that Mrs O had been  unwell but she didnt think that 
was as a direct result of the advice provided by Halifax. The complaints  process  was started  
after Mrs O had become  unwell. She was upset by the situation and that her retirement 
wasnt as shed planned and hoped. But shed known that thirteen years  before shed 
complained and when she took her benefits from the pension plan. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to learn that Mrs O has been unwell. And that this matter has affected her 
ability to enjoy her retirement. 
I can understand why Mrs O considers shed have been much better off with a savings 
account that she could have paid into as and when she could afford and accessed in full 
when she retired or indeed earlier. And Halifax recognises that too  it accepts that 
affordability was an issue  for Mrs O and on that basis the pension wasnt suitable for her.  
Whats not agreed  is what needs to be done to put things right for Mrs O. I know Mrs O will 
be disappointed  but I agree with the investigator that Halifax has done enough. I dont have 
much to add to whats been  said already.  
We aim to put the consumer back in the position he or she would be in if things hadnt gone 
wrong  if suitable  advice  had been  given. But sometimes it wont  be possible to do that 
exactly. Particularly where several years  have elapsed  and the consumer has made  
decisions that cant be unwound  such as buying an annuity. 
In that sort of situation  wed look at if the consumer has suffered  a financial loss by doing 
what they did, instead of what they should have been advised to do. Where  the consumer 
has suffered a financial loss wed expect the business to make that up. And a payment for 
distress and inconvenience may also be appropriate. 
In looking at if a financial loss had been  suffered  wed take into account any benefits  that the 
consumer has received  it wont generally  be right to ignore money that the consumer has 
Ref: DRN40689113received and so had the use and benefit  of even if, ideally, the consumer would have 
preferred something  different (for example a lump  sum rather than periodic payments).   
Here it doesnt appear that Mrs O has suffered a financial loss. She paid in net contributions 
of £10,146.70 between  July 1998 and August 2005. She took £3,242.14 as a tax free cash  
lump sum. And shes received annuity payments of almost £600 a year (paid quarterly  in 
arrears) since  2005.  The benefits  are more than the refund (plus interest)  would be and so 
theres no financial loss.
Its possible that paying into a pension has cost Mrs O more in mortgage payments. If she 
was in arrears with her mortgage she might have been able to reduce those arrears  and pay 
less interest, if instead of making contributions to a pension, shed put that money towards 
her mortgage payment.  But I think thats  probably  going to be very difficult  to determine 
exactly and when, as it stands, it seems that Mrs O has made  a gain in respect of her 
pension contributions which would need  to be offset  against any loss shes incurred 
elsewhere. 
I think the real issue is that in 2005  Mrs O wasnt able to access  the pension  fund shed built 
up as a lump sum. Her pension fund was too large to come  under the then triviality 
provisions. But, as has been explained,  she hasnt suffered a financial loss as such. But she 
has been inconvenienced  she wasnt able to access the pension  fund shed built up in the 
same way as she could have done  if shed had a savings plan. 
But I think the £650 that Halifax  has paid for that is sufficient. I know  Mrs Os representative  
doesnt agree, particularly  given Mrs Os health problems. But those have arisen more 
recently and I dont think they can fairly  be attributed to what  had happened many  years 
earlier. What happened then was very unfortunate but I think the £650 is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this case.  So Im not going to ask Halifax  to pay any more.  
my final decision
I dont think Bank of Scotland plc needs  to do anything more to settle  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4068911