K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about their home insurer  Amtrust Europe Limited because,  
after they made a claim to it following a water leak, it said it was avoiding their policy  
(treating it as though it had never existed) and thereby declining the claim.
background
Dating back to 2014 Mr and Mrs B each  had a county court judgment (CCJ) logged against 
them. A few months  later, in 2015, they were both declared bankrupt. The bankruptcies 
were discharged in 2016.
In February 2017  Mr and Mrs B applied for home  insurance cover. They  were  asked if 
theyd ever been declared bankrupt or if theyd  had any CCJs. Mr and Mrs B said theyd 
both been declared bankrupt with the total of the orders  being  £130,000. Cover was 
agreed.
The policy renewed  in February 2018.  In March 2018 Mr B discovered  a leak in the 
bathroom at the home. A claim was made  and a visit from a loss adjuster arranged.  Prior to 
the visit the adjuster carried out some  credit searches. He found details of the CCJs from 
2014. He also found details of a limited company that Mr and Mrs B had been  shareholders  
of that had been liquidated.
The adjuster  visited Mr and Mrs Bs home on 24 April 2018.  Following  this he reported  to 
Amtrust that there had likely been a genuine claim and a quote  Mr B had shown him for 
repairs seemed reasonable both in terms of extent of work  and price. He said if the claim 
progressed it could  be settled in cash on the basis of that quote.
However, the adjuster also asked Amtrust to consider and enquire  into what  Mr and Mrs B 
had told it when the policy was arranged. The adjuster shared the information he had found  
prior to the visits. He said that hed asked  Mr B during the visit about  bankruptcies  and 
CCJs and Mr B had only divulged the bankruptcies. He said hed prompted Mr B to tell him 
anything further and Mr B had said there was nothing further. The adjuster was concerned 
that Mr and Mrs B hadnt shared all necessary information when the policy  was arranged  
and Amtrust  investigated this.
Amtrust found a recording of the conversation Mr and Mrs B had with it in 2017.  Amtrust 
decided that Mr and Mrs B should  have disclosed the CCJs but had failed to do so when 
reasonably asked. It concluded  that if it had been told about the CCJs cover wouldnt have 
been offered.  Amtrust wrote to Mr and Mrs B telling them it was avoiding  their policy and 
that, as a result, their claim  wouldnt be considered.
Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy. They noted it had taken ten weeks for Amtrust  to assess  their 
claim and then make this decision.  But they also felt the decision was unfair. They  said they 
didnt recall being asked about  CCJs in 2017,  only the bankruptcy. But, they said,  in any 
event, the bankruptcies superseded the CCJs; in their view it wasnt  true to say they have 
CCJs because they had been  included  in the bankruptcy  order. They  pointed  out 
bankruptcy is far more serious  and significant than CCJs and they had declared  that to 
Amtrust.
When Amtrust  wasnt minded to change its position,  Mr and Mrs B complained  to us. Our 
investigator felt that Mr and Mrs B did have CCJs logged against  them,  so he felt they 
Ref: DRN46424972should have declared these to Amtrust.  He felt Amtrust had acted  reasonably in avoiding  
the cover  and thereby declining the claim.
Mr and Mrs B were  disappointed. They pointed out that when asked if theyd ever been  
made bankrupt, have any CCJs. theyd answered  yes. So they felt they had answered 
the question put to them correctly. Their complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I didnt think Amtrust had acted fairly. I felt it should remove the record of the avoidance, 
reinstate the policy, pay £8,927.00 in settlement of the claim  and reimbursement of extra  
costs Mr and Mrs B had paid (plus interest) and pay £250 compensation. I explained why in 
the following  findings: 
was Amtrust avoidance  reasonable?
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (the Act) requires a 
prospective policyholder  to take reasonable care not to make  any misrepresentation to the 
insurer when applying  for cover. If a misrepresentation is made which  is a qualifying 
misrepresentation then the insurer will be allowed to take certain  action.
If reasonable care wasnt taken by the prospective policyholder and the insurer  can show  
that if it had been,  it wouldnt have entered  into the insurance contract, or it would but only 
on different terms, the misrepresentation  made is held to have been a qualifying one.
Whether the prospective policyholder took reasonable care will depend largely on whether  
the question  asked by the insurer was clear and/or specific  enough to elicit from the reader 
what it really was the insurer wanted to know.
Ive seen a transcript  of the 2017  call. Mr and Mrs B were  asked  (my emphasis) has 
anyone got any bankruptcies, CCJs.. The policy documents issued  a little later recorded  
the question as (my emphasis) Have youc)  ever been declared  bankrupt,  have any 
CCJs. Whilst  there is a slight difference in the wording, I note both phrasings of the 
question ask about CCJs in the present tense.
I think Mr and Mrs B did take reasonable care when answering Amtrusts question.  They 
told Amtrust  about the bankruptcy. They didnt mention any CCJs. But the CCJs had 
preceded the bankruptcy order  and related  to the same debt. Looking at the legal position 
of bankruptcy  and the commonly held understanding of that process  that it wipes  the 
slate clean  I think it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs B t not to declare their previous  CCJs 
on the basis that theyd made Amtrust  aware of their previous insolvency. Mr and Mrs B 
believe those CCJs, in effect, no longer exist. I dont think thats an unreasonable  view of 
things for a lay person, although  the legal position  is in fact more  complex.
If Amtrust had simply asked if they had ever had a CCJ, similar to what it had asked about 
being declared bankrupt, Mr and Mrs B would,  I think, reasonably  have had to give a 
different answer.  But that was not what they were  asked.
As, in my view, Mr and Mrs B didnt fail to take reasonable care, it cant  fairly  be said they 
made a qualifying misrepresentation when applying for the policy. Furthermore, extending 
my consideration for a minute to the second  important factor in deciding  whether a 
qualifying misrepresentation occurred, Amtrust hasnt satisfied me that, had it known about 
the CCJs, it wouldnt have  offered the cover to Mr and Mrs B.
Amtrust has some formal guidance about  what it will and will not accept. That says that if 
Ref: DRN46424973details are given  about  bankruptcies and CCJs amounting  to more than £100,000, cover  
should be declined.  Amtrust decided not to stick to that guidance when it provided Mr and 
Mrs B cover even though  they had told it of bankruptcies alone that exceeded that value. 
Whilst an Amtrust  underwriting assistant later said cover wouldnt have been given if the 
CCJs had been  declared as well, I cant reasonably find that is most likely  what would have 
happened.
I say that not only because  the standard position had already been contradicted, but 
because the assistant had also been  made  aware of company  information which  seems  to 
have impacted, or has at least been taken  into account when reaching,  the judgement 
made. If Amtrust was prepared to offer cover to policyholders whod fairly recently been 
declared bankrupt, Id be surprised if it would never have offered cover to someone with the 
relatively less serious issue  of a CCJ. Overall, Im just not persuaded by the statement 
made. As such, even if Amtrust can convince  me that Mr and Mrs B did fail to take 
reasonable care, Id still not be persuaded that a qualifying  misrepresentation had been 
made.
This means  that I think Amtrusts  avoidance of Mr and Mrs Bs policy  was unfair  and 
unreasonable. It will need to reinstate their policy and remove  the record  of the avoidance  
from its own and any industry  database.  As Mr and Mrs B found alternate  cover,  beginning 
11 June 2018,  Amtrust  will have to mark their policy with it as cancelled  by them on 
10 June 2018.
costs due to the unfair avoidance
As mentioned above, Mr and Mr B arranged new cover. This cost them £735.68 more than 
Amtrusts policy.  But for Amtrusts unfair  avoidance they wouldnt have had to find another  
policy or paid this extra cost. Its only reasonable that Amtrust reimburses them this sum, 
plus interest* from the date the overpayment  (or any overpayments  that make up this sum) 
was(/were) paid, until settlement is made.
To secure  this cover Mr and Mrs B had to upgrade their alarm system. This cost them
£867.72. Im satisfied that but for Amtrusts  unfair avoidance they wouldnt have  paid this 
extra cost.  Its only reasonable that Amtrust  reimburses them this sum, plus interest* from 
the date they paid for the upgrade work to be done until settlement is made.
the claim
I see the loss adjuster  verified the claim and confirmed agreement with the proposed 
schedule and cost for works. Im satisfied  that, but for Amtrusts  unfair  avoidance a claim 
payment for the quoted amount of £6,714.00 would have been paid to Mr and Mrs B to 
allow them to carry out works. The loss adjuster approved this figure in late April. I think
Mr and Mrs B should reasonably have had the benefit of this sum by mid-May 2018. 
Therefore, Im going  to require Amtrust to pay this sum to Mr and Mrs B, plus interest from 
15 May 2018 until settlement is made.
The quote  didnt  include costs for tiling the bathroom floor.  From what I have seen  I think 
that work  would have  been necessary. Mr and Mrs B say they have a quote for that work 
from June totalling  £609.60. That doesnt  seem an unreasonable sum for the work required.  
I think its likely that if the policy hadnt been avoided Mr and Mrs B would have submitted 
this quote to the loss adjuster and hed have approved  it. Reasonably I think  they should  
have had the benefit of this payment by mid-July 2018. Therefore, Im going  to require 
Ref: DRN46424974Amtrust to pay this sum to them, plus interest  from 15 July 2018 until settlement is made.
compensation
I can see that Amtrusts handling  of this claim was upsetting  and frustrating for
Mr and Mrs B. I see that prior to Amtrust making the decision to avoid the cover,  progress 
was slow and communication poor. Mr and Mrs B often chased for updates. I also see the 
decision itself was upsetting and Mr and Mrs B were worried for a period of eleven  days  
when they had no insurance.  This put them in breach of their mortgage agreement. Overall 
I think Amtrust  reasonably  should  pay £250  compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience its caused them.
Mr and Mrs B were  pleased by my decision  but asked that I require Amtrust to also pay 
their extra costs for this years house  insurance,  and the extra cost they incurred for their 
car insurance following the avoidance. They also asked that I increase my compensation 
award. 
I noted Mr and Mrs Bs request for £735.68  for this years extra home insurance cost. 
Amtrust had accepted  my findings and I asked our investigator to let it know  Id be minded 
to make it pay this additional  cost too. Amtrust acknowledged that. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Amtrust  should pay for the extra cost Mr and Mrs B incurred  this year for their house 
insurance, £735.68, for the same  reason  as I provisionally found it should pay for last years  
 they wouldnt  have insurance  at an increased  rate if Amtrust hadnt unfairly avoided their 
policy. Ive also no reason to think Amtrust wouldnt have renewed in 2019 at a similar  rate. 
Im not going  to make Amtrust pay for the car insurance. Whilst the car insurance  
increased, I cant know why that was, and, if I were to ask Mr and Mrs B for more  
information, the insurer is unlikely to reveal  details of its confidential pricing  policy to them.  
In any event, if the car insurance premium  has risen as a result of the avoidance, 
Mr and Mrs B can ask the car insurer to amend it now its clear the avoidance  was unfair.
I note Mr and Mr B also asked what they should tell an insurer  in the future. Mr and Mrs B, 
as with all policyholders, should take reasonable care to answer correctly to the best of their 
knowledge any question  put to them by any insurer.  They  may like to note though that part 
of my award  requires Amtrust to remove the record of the avoidance from its own and any 
industry database. That is because it is required to, as close as possible, put the 
policyholder back  into the position  they should  have been in if its error hadnt  occurred. In 
this case Amtrusts error was to avoid the policy so it must remove the record of that unfair  
act having occurred. 
I understand it was frustrating for Mr and Mrs B to be without  a shower. I accept  that having 
the policy avoided  and, in doing so, having to go through all of the bankruptcy  issues again  
was upsetting. But Im not minded to increase my compensation award. Im satisfied that 
£250 is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN46424975my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I intend to require Amtrust Europe Limited to:
Reinstate Mr and Mrs Bs cover from February 2017 until 10 June 2018. At which  point 
mark it as having  been cancelled by them.
Remove the record  of the avoidance  from its own and any industry database.
Pay them £9,662.68  in settlement of their claim and financial losses,  plus interest* as 
directed above on sums that make  up this figure.
Pay them £250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 January 2020. 
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4642497