K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how Ageas Insurance Limited  (Ageas) has handled his commercial 
insurance claim.  
background
In February 2019,  Mr S reported  to Ageas  that the roof of his commercial property had been 
damaged due to a storm and that this had also caused damage to the inside of his property. 
He said the storm  happened in early  January 2019. 
Ageas loss adjuster visited Mr S property to inspect the damage. The loss adjuster reported 
there werent  any storm conditions around  the time Mr S said the damage occurred and 
concluded the roof had failed due to age related wear and tear. The loss adjuster suggested 
Mr S provide  a roof report to support  his claim that the entire  roof needed replacing. 
In response, Mr S provided his roofers comments.  Initially the roofer said I moved  the roof 
tiles back to where they needed to be after some  bad winds we had in early  January. And as 
I said then the roof will need  replacing [at] some  point  soon  as the tiles are all weak and [the] 
felt and battens are looking tired.  
Mr S later said his roofers initial comments werent  about his property. His roofer  provided  
further comment which said:  The roof had around  10-15  slates moved due to the wind [] It 
is unfortunate that the wind caught the slates from under it as this ruins  roofs.
Ageas considered the roofers comments but its decision to decline the damage  to Mr S roof 
remained the same. It did agree to repair the internal water damage under the accidental 
damage part of Mr S cover.
Mr S remained unhappy  and so brought his complaint to this service. 
An investigator considered the complaint but thought Ageas had acted  fairly  by refusing to 
cover the damage  to Mr Ss roof. She was satisfied there hadnt been storm conditions  and 
that the damage was most likely  due to wear and tear  which  isnt covered under the policy.  
With regards to the internal damage, she thought the repairs  Mr S was asking for would put 
his property in a better position than what it was prior to the loss. So she didnt think it was 
fair to ask Ageas to cover  this. She was satisfied the scope of works identified  by the loss 
adjuster were reasonable and so she thought  the cash settlement offered was fair.  
Mr S disagreed. He said the roof should be covered because the damage was caused by 
strong winds, and he wasnt satisfied the cash settlement  would allow for the full extent of 
the internal damage to be repaired. So the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld  and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN48575752Roof 
Ageas is entitled  to decide what it will and wont cover when providing insurance, and the 
terms and conditions of the policy will define what the level of cover is. What  I need to decide  
is whether Ageas decision to decline Mr S claim for storm  damage is in accordance with the 
policy terms and fair in the circumstances. 
When a consumer makes a claim, the onus is on them  to show that, on the balance  of 
probabilities, an insured  event caused  the damage. But, when an insurer  wants to apply an 
exclusion or say a condition hasnt been  met - the onus is on it to show,  the exclusion or 
condition applies.
The first thing to consider  is whether  there was storm. Mr S hasnt been able to provide a 
specific date as to when the storm occurred  that he says caused  damage to his roof. Hes 
said it might  have been in December  2018  or early January 2019. Ordinarily,  the insured 
would be required to specify  the date the storm happened but Im aware  this is a property   
Mr S rents out and so I think its reasonable for him to not necessarily notice the damage 
when it first happened.
Ive checked weather  records from mid-December to mid-January and having done  so, I can 
see there were storm conditions on 13 January 2019. So Im satisfied a storm took place 
during the timeframe Mr S said the damage  occurred.
I next need to consider whether the damage  to Mr S roof is consistent with the type of 
damage a storm typically causes. Here, 10-15 slate roof tiles had moved  which Im satisfied 
is consistent with the type of damage  a storm might cause. 
But for me to say Ageas has acted unfairly by declining Mr S claim for storm damage,  I need 
to be satisfied the storm was the main cause of the damage.  From reviewing the evidence 
available I dont think it was and Ill explain why.  
Mr S roofer  initially  said the tiles had moved as a result of wear and tear and he said the rest 
of the roof was weak and would need  to be replaced. He later changed his opinion and said 
winds were the cause  of the damage. 
Although Mr S and his roofer have said the roofers initial  comments related to another 
property, the roofers  subsequent comments dont  persuade me that the storm conditions 
were the main cause  of the damage  either.  I say this because the roofer doesnt provide 
evidence to support  Mr S argument that the roof was in a good state of repair. Instead he 
explains that the Mr S type of roof (being slate) means its difficult  to repair  a few tiles and 
that, in his opinion, an entire new roof is required.  
Conversely, the loss adjuster report explains that had the roof tiles been in sound condition, 
they wouldnt have  moved. So having considered  the evidence from both sides,  I think its 
more likely the storm simply highlighted an existing problem and was not the main  cause  of 
damage. And that instead, the damage was caused  by gradual wear  and tear.
As the policy states that this type of damage  isnt covered, Im satisfied Ageas has acted 
fairly by declining to cover  the damage  to the roof.
Ref: DRN48575753Internal damage
Ageas has agreed  to cover the internal  damage  under the accidental  damage part of Mr Ss 
policy. But Mr S is unhappy that Ageas wont cover what he considers to be the full extent of 
the damage. He wants Ageas to replace his bathroom and kitchen and have the property  
repainted throughout.
I note that Mr S builder  has suggested  the entire kitchen and bathroom be replaced so as to 
avoid the possibility of tiles and other  items being  damaged in the process of repairing the 
affected areas. But doing so would put Mr S property into a better position than what it was 
prior to the water damage  and thats not what the policy  is designed to do. So I dont think  
its fair to ask Ageas to cover this. 
The loss adjusters report states  that the damage had been caused to the dcor of the 
ceilings and wall in the three  bedrooms on the first floor. I note that he said the temporary 
repair appeared to have  prevented further water ingress. Theres  no mention of needing  to 
repair damage in the bathroom or kitchen.  
Having not seen evidence from Mr S to show the extent of the damage  is greater  than that 
reported in the loss adjusters findings, it wouldnt be fair to ask Ageas to increase its cash 
settlement offer.
I know Mr S will be disappointed by my decision but I hope he understands my reasons  for 
not upholding his complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.  
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4857575