K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold  him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1995.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Bs signed  mortgage application form. It includes a section on 
insurance. Within that section theres a clear  heading Mortgage  Repayment  Insurance 
for Injury, Illness and Unemployment . Immediately under  that it asks whether  the 
applicant wishes to take the cover, and instructs  them  to answer  yes or no. The word  
Yes is written in the adjacent box. And another box is ticked  to indicate  that Mr B 
wished to take cover for injury, illness and unemployment, as opposed to the other 
option of injury and illness only. I think Bradford & Bingley made  Mr B aware that the PPI 
was optional and that he chose to take it.
Bradford & Bingley  says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B. Mr B says it did. But even 
if Bradford & Bingley  did recommend the policy to Mr B, it doesnt  look as if it was 
unsuitable for him, based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time.  The 
mortgage was a long-term financial  commitment, secured on Mr Bs property. It looks  as 
if Mr B would have been entitled to little, if any, sick pay from his employer at the time.  
The PPI would have  paid his monthly  mortgage payments for up to 12 months  per 
successful claim  for injury, illness or unemployment. So I think  the policy  could have 
been useful for Mr B, especially as hes told us that he didnt have any other means he 
could have used  to make  his mortgage payments if he was off sick or if he lost his job.
The cost of the policy was shown clearly  on the mortgage offer.  So I think Mr B would 
have understood  how much  hed need to pay for it. 
Its possible Bradford & Bingley didnt point  out the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
And based on what hes told us about  his circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr B 
would have been affected by any of these. And from what hes told us about his 
circumstances at the time, Im satisfied that Mr B was eligible for the cover.  So I think its 
unlikely that hed have made a different decision about taking out the PPI if better  
information had been provided.
Ref: DRN42080662Ive taken into account all Mr Bs comments,  including what hes said about having felt 
pressured into taking  the policy. He says Bradford  & Bingleys advisor told him the PPI was a 
good idea. And he says he thought  it would help his mortgage application to be approved if 
he took PPI. 
Ive accepted that Bradford & Bingley may have recommended  the policy to Mr B. But 
pressure is a different  matter. Mr Bs told us that he cant remember  much about the 
interview. I dont find that surprising, given that it took place more than 20 years ago. But 
without stronger evidence, I cant fairly  conclude that Bradford & Bingley pressured  Mr B into 
taking the PPI.
Mr Bs also told us he asked to cancel the policy after he lost his job He says that Bradford & 
Bingley told him he wasnt eligible to claim on the policy. He says he then asked Bradford & 
Bingley to cancel  the policy, but it kept on taking premiums.
Ive seen a letter Bradford  & Bingley sent to Mr B in 1997, after his claim on the PPI policy  
for unemployment was turned down. It said that it hadnt received any response  to its 
request for evidence  in support of his claim. And it said that it couldnt refund the premiums, 
as Mr B had requested,  because the claim had been closed because Mr B hadnt provided  
evidence that the policy administrators had asked for, and not because he was ineligible  for 
the policy.
Weve asked Bradford  & Bingley to provide copies of all correspondence  it has, including,  if 
available, the letter in which it appears that Mr B asked for a refund of premiums.  Im 
satisfied that Bradford  & Bingleys made  a thorough search, but it hasnt been able to find a 
copy of the letter.
Its apparent that Mr B asked Bradford & Bingley  to refund the premiums  after his claim was 
declined. And it looks  as if he may have been under the impression at the time that it was 
turned down because he was ineligible  for the policy. Hes mentioned this in his complaint to 
this service. But it looks as if Bradford & Bingley explained to Mr B at the time that the claim 
had been turned down  because he hadnt  provided  the evidence  it had requested.  And 
based on the information Ive been  provided  with, Im satisfied that Mr B was eligible for the 
policy. I dont underestimate how strongly  Mr B feels, but the fact that his unemployment 
claim was turned down  doesnt change my view that the policy wasnt mis-sold.
Im satisfied that Mr B knew that the policy was optional.  And if Mr B hed asked Bradford & 
Bingley to cancel  it and it hadnt done so, Id have expected him to follow  up his request. As 
it is, he continued to pay monthly premiums  for many years.  Based on the evidence I have, 
I cant safely conclude that Mr B asked Bradford & Bingley to cancel  the policy and that it 
refused to do so.
Ive explained  that Im satisfied that the PPI was mis-sold. This means Bradford & Bingley 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Bradford  & Bingley has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:
It got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Bradford  & Bingley didnt  tell them,  that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN42080663To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has paid back  the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4208066