K820x#14complaint
Mr V has complained about the decision by The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance  
Society Limited (NFU) to decline a claim  under  his property  owner  insurance  policy. Mr V 
has also complained  that the policy was mis-sold.
background
Mr V owned  a property  which he rented out. After the tenants  had moved out, Mr V 
discovered that damage had been  caused  to the property.  He made a claim to NFU.
After sending its loss adjuster  to assess the damage,  NFU declined  the claim. It said that the 
damage hadnt been caused maliciously and didnt fall under any of the other  insured perils;  
instead, it was due to wear and tear, and general lack of care.
Mr V was unhappy at NFUs response. He considered the damage  was malicious and 
should be covered.  He also said that when he took out the policy, he was assured he would 
be covered for this type of situation.  He complained to NFU.
NFU didnt uphold  his complaint. It was satisfied that it had been  correct to decline the claim. 
It found no evidence  that the policy had been  mis-sold.  It noted  that Mr V said he had a 
recording of a telephone call from the time of sale in which NFU assured him that he would 
be covered for this type of damage. It said that it didnt have its own recording of this call but 
if he were to provide  his recording  it would happily review the matter.
Mr V remained unhappy.  He referred  his complaint to us. In particular, he highlighted the 
damage which the tenants  had caused through the unauthorised painting  of antique beams 
and door frames. He considered this should  be regarded  as malicious under the policy.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He considered  that 
the tenants hadnt acted  maliciously when they painted the beams  and door frames. He 
thought it had been fair for NFU to decline the claim.  He furthermore was satisfied that NFU 
had done nothing wrong in the sale of the policy.
Mr V disagreed with the investigators findings. He said the tenants had been in clear  breach 
of the tenancy  agreement  when they redecorated the property without his permission. 
In view of the continued  disagreement, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy provides cover for certain  insured perils. These perils  include Malicious Persons 
and Accidental Damage.
Mr V has provided a report by the letting agent  following its end of tenancy inspection.  The 
report identified a number  of examples of damage which had been caused to the property. 
However, these examples  included such things as grubbiness,  stains, chips  to paintwork and 
condensation. I consider that these  cannot  reasonably be classed  as either malicious  or 
Ref: DRN48011242accidental damage;  instead they are just due to wear and tear, and a lack of care on the part 
of the tenants.  Indeed, it appears that Mr V now accepts that this is the case.
However, the letting  agents report also notes that the tenants had painted  over some of the 
antique beams and door frames in the property. Mr V says the tenants werent authorised to 
do this. He says that removing  the paint is costly.  It is this damage in particular which Mr V 
thinks NFU should have covered under the Malicious Persons section of the policy.
The policy doesnt  define Malicious  Persons.  But I would  interpret this as meaning  that the 
policy would provide cover for damage  caused  by someone whose primary intention was to 
cause harm. In this case, it appears that the tenants  decorated the property without 
authorisation and, in so doing, painted areas which Mr V wanted  to remain unpainted.  I can 
appreciate that Mr V is very annoyed at the tenants  actions. However, I cant  reasonably  say 
that the tenants did this because they wanted to cause harm  to the property. I therefore 
consider that it was fair for NFU to say that this wasnt covered under the Malicious  Persons 
section of the policy.
Furthermore, because the tenants presumably intended to paint the areas which  they 
painted, I consider that this cant reasonably be described as accidental damage. Instead,
I consider it was simply carelessness  or stupidity  on the part of the tenants.
Given that the damage caused by the painting is neither malicious nor accidental,  and there 
is no other insured  peril under  which  this, or any other of the damage caused  to the property, 
reasonably falls, I consider it was fair for NFU to decline the claim.
In respect of the sale of the policy, NFU has provided the information which  was sent to 
Mr V. I consider  that this clearly and accurately  describes  the nature of the cover. Mr V says 
that he was assured by NFU over the telephone that he would be covered for the type of 
damage which his property has now suffered. However, NFU doesn't have a recording of 
this call and Mr V, while he says that he does have a recording, has either  been  unwilling or 
unable to provide  it. In the absence of evidence to show that NFU misled Mr V, I cant 
reasonably conclude that the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 August 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4801124