K820x#14complaint
Miss T says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 3 January  2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
this policy  had not been mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
3 February 2019.  But neither side added anything more for me to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have  sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before: that I dont think  this policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold 
Miss Ts complaint about Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN47691692COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss T says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss T took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1998. Miss T paid for the PPI with a regular  monthly 
premium, which didnt  attract  interest.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss T disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Miss Ts case. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think Miss Ts policy was mis-sold in this case   Ill explain 
why.
The mortgage  application had a section for PPI. It only recommended  that Miss T thought about it, 
and offered her more details if shed  like. There was a box Miss T could sign if she wanted  PPI, or 
which could be left blank  if she didnt  want it. Miss T signed the box for PPI, separately to signing the 
application as a whole.  She also submitted a separate application specifically for PPI, which set out its 
cost as distinct from the cost of the mortgage itself. Similarly, her mortgage quotation  displayed the 
PPI as a separate  cost. Overall, I think that Halifax  made Miss T aware she had a choice about  
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Miss T, so it had to check  it was right for her. And based on what 
Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example,  Miss T doesnt seem  to have 
been affected  by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And it looks like it wouldve been 
affordable for her.
When Miss T first complained, she said she didnt have any sick pay or savings. Shes now said that 
she had very generous sick pay, and savings  worth  at least an entire years worth of her salary. 
I understand that at first, Miss T wasnt sure when  the PPI was sold,  but thats  a very big difference in 
testimony, not least when her original  testimony was based on the same job title and industry.
Miss Ts mortgage application said she had a very small amount of savings, but several  thousand 
pounds of unsecured debt. So it doesnt look like Miss T had the level of savings she now says she 
had. And Im afraid this casts doubt on her latest testimony about her sick pay, too  not least when 
the amount shes given is unusually  high, and doesnt seem consistent with her employment  situation. 
So I think its most likely that Miss T is mistaken about her sick pay and savings, and that her original 
testimony is closer to the correct amount.  And so I think its most  likely that the PPI wouldve been 
useful for Miss T in protecting her home. Of course, if Miss T has any evidence  of her sick pay and 
savings around 1998, then she should  send  this in by the deadline  and Ill reconsider this point.
The cost of the policy  was shown clearly on the PPI application and mortgage quotation. So I think 
Miss T wouldve understood how much she would  need to pay for it.
Ref: DRN47691693Lastly, its possible that Halifax didnt point out all the main  things the policy wouldnt  cover. But as 
I said above,  Miss T doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of those things. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont plan to uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Please could  Miss T and Halifax send me any more information or comments to look at by 3 February  
2019. After that, Ill issue my final decision.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4769169