K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about short-term loans granted to him by Western  Circle Limited 
trading as Cashfloat.  Mr H says he couldnt afford  these loans and that Cashfloat didnt 
take appropriate steps to check whether he could afford them when he took them out. 
background
Cashfloat agreed seven short-term loans for Mr H between January 2016 and March 2018.  
The loans ranged from £300 to £1,000 and were  due to be repaid over between  two and four 
monthly instalments.  Ive set out a summary of lending  below.  
loan no. application principal amount  (£)no. of 
instalments 
duehighest  monthly 
repayment due 
(£)
1 14/01/2016 300 2 219
2 09/04/2016 450 3 204
3 28/06/2016 650 4 258
4 30/01/2017 750 3 358
5 30/05/2017 950 4 373
6 19/12/2017 1,000 4 417
7 26/03/2018 1,000 4 403
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Hs complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld in part. She initially felt the checks Cashfloat carried out for loans 1 - 4 
were proportionate, but that the checks carried out for loans 5  7 werent.  And that had 
Cashfloat carried out proportionate  checks,  it wouldve  seen that loans 5  7 wouldve been 
unaffordable for Mr H and it would not have agreed to them.
However, after taking  a further  look at the case she thought that the checks Cashfloat  
carried out for loan 4 were also not proportionate,  and that proportionate checks wouldve 
demonstrated to Cashfloat that this loan wouldve also been unaffordable  for Mr H, and so it 
would not have agreed to this loan either.
 
Mr H accepted the adjudicators findings. But Cashfloat disagreed  with the initial findings, 
and provided no further comments in response  to the revised  assessment. So as no 
agreements been  reached at this stage, the case  has been  passed to me for a decision.
As loans  1  3 no longer  seem to be in dispute,  my decision  will focus on the remaining 
loans  loans  4  7. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator at the time Mr H took out the above loans. 
Its regulations for lenders  are set out in its consumer credit sourcebook  (generally  referred  to 
as CONC). These regulations require lenders to take reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
Ref: DRN41383502manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.  -  CONC 5.3.1(2). 
CONC 5.3.1(7) defines sustainable as being  able to make repayments without undue  
difficulty. And explains that this means  borrowers should be able to make their repayments 
on time and out of their income  and savings without having to borrow  to meet  these 
repayments. 
In making this decision Ive considered whether or not Cashfloat  did everything it shouldve  
when assessing  Mr Hs loan applications.  And if it didnt, had it done further checks, whether 
it wouldve  realised these  loans may have been unaffordable for him.
Having reviewed the case, I agree  with the adjudicators findings. I dont think  the checks 
Cashfloat carried out on loans 4 - 7 were proportionate. And I think  that had it carried out 
proportionate checks, it wouldve concluded  these loans  wouldve been unaffordable for 
Mr H, and would not have agreed  to them.
So Im upholding  Mr Hs complaint for the same reasons  as our adjudicator did and directing 
Cashfloat to put things  right in the way she recommended. I appreciate this is not the 
outcome Cashfloat  was hoping for, but I hope  my explanation will make it clear  as to how 
and why Ive reached  this conclusion. 
Cashfloat says it carried  out proportionate checks when Mr H applied  for his loans. It said,  
amongst other things,  that its affordability  assessment was made up of several  elements, 
which included asking  applicants  to give full details of their monthly incomings and 
outgoings. Its said that it took account of all Mr Hs outstanding borrowings and other credit 
balances, and calculated  an up to date monthly  repayment figure for each credit item. 
It says that it will only approve  a loan if the total of all monthly credit repayments, to which an 
applicant is already committed, together with all other living  expenses, leave the applicant 
with sufficient disposable income to comfortably afford their repayment. So Ive considered 
this when deciding  this case. 
When Mr H took out loan 4 he borrowed £750,  which was due to be repaid over four monthly 
instalments, the highest of which was around  £360. At this point hed been borrowing from 
Cashfloat for around a year, and the amounts  hed been borrowing  had been  generally 
increasing.
Considering the amount Mr H needed to repay  monthly, as well as the overall amount 
Cashfloat was lending him, I think  Cashfloat shouldve done  more to ensure  Mr H could meet 
his repayments  in a sustainable manner. I think that as well as looking into Mr Hs regular 
monthly income, regular  living costs  and regular monthly credit commitments,  Cashfloat 
shouldve also enquired specifically into whether he owed any monies  to any other short-term 
lenders before approving  his loan 4 application. So I dont think its checks went far enough. 
Had Cashfloat carried out proportionate checks when  Mr H applied  for loan 4, I think it 
wouldve seen he was already due to repay  around £1,150 to other short-term lenders the 
month after taking  out his loan with Cashfloat. Which, when added to the regular  monthly 
living expenses and credit  commitments  Cashfloat had already recorded for Mr H of £1,275, 
wouldve taken his total monthly expenditure  to around £2,425.
Ref: DRN41383503And given  that Cashfloat recorded Mr Hs monthly income as £2,092 at the point he applied  
for loan 4, I think that had Cashfloat carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve seen that 
Mr Hs monthly  outgoings  already exceeded his monthly income at this point,  and that he 
was not in a position  to commit to any further monthly repayments at this time. So as a 
responsible lender, I dont think it wouldve agreed  to this loan knowing this information.  
Mr H finished repaying loan 4 in April 2017, and took out loan 5 around a month later. Given 
the length of the overall lending relationship  between Cashfloat  and Mr H, and the increasing 
amounts borrowed  (as well as the increasing monthly repayments), I think  that by this point  
Cashfloats checks shouldve gone  further. I think by now, and from this point on, Cashfloat  
shouldve built a full picture of Mr Hs financial circumstances,  and verified the information it 
was given, so it could be confident in his ability to meet his repayments  in a sustainable 
manner. So from loans  5 onwards, I dont  think Cashfloats checks were proportionate. 
Ive considered whether the gap between Mr H settling  loan 5 at the end of July 2017, and 
taking out loan 6 towards  the end of December 2017, would make it reasonable for Cashfloat 
to have reduced the level of checks it carried out when assessing the affordability of Mr Hs 
next application. But given Mr H had taken out five previous loans  with Cashfloat, and the 
fact that hed been taking  out short-term  loans for approaching  two years at this point, I think 
Cashfloat shouldve  still continued to build a full picture of Mr Hs financial circumstances 
and verified the information it was given when he applied for loans 6 and 7 as well. 
Had Cashfloat carried out proportionate checks when  Mr H applied  for loans 5  7, it 
wouldve seen he was earning between £2,100 and £2,300 a month. It wouldve also seen 
that his regular living costs and regular  credit commitments combined,  ranged between 
around £2,000  and £2,175 a month.  This meant  that when he applied  for loans 5  7, he had 
around £0 to £259 in disposable income, which  wasnt  sufficient to meet  any of Cashfloats 
scheduled repayments. 
 
Cashfloat wouldve  also seen, that while Mr Hs disposable income was already minimal 
when he applied for loans 5  7, he also owed from around £1,000 to £2,600 monthly  to up 
to eight other short-term  lenders, and was already  seriously over-committed  financially. And 
in one month was committed to repay  over £4,800  in total outgoings, while  earning  just a 
little over £2,100  a month. 
So I think proportionate checks  wouldve  shown  Cashfloat that Mr Hs outgoings already 
significantly exceeded his income at the time he applied for loans 5  7, and as a 
responsible lender, it would not have  agreed  to these loans.
Cashfloat has said that weve not taken  into account Mr Hs partners  income. And seems to 
be suggesting that it was reasonable to expect that the rent cost of £275  a month was 
shared between Mr H and his partner.
But Cashfloat s final response letter seems to suggest that Cashfloat only took into account 
Mr Hs contribution towards the rent cost, rather than the full amount, which Mr H has 
confirmed. So I cant see why it would  now be suggesting his contribution towards  these 
costs are split again, when it seems to have already done this at its initial  assessment.
 
Also from what  I can see of Cashfloats  income and expenditure checks, it seems to have 
made a note of Mrs Hs income  at the point  of sale, but hasnt taken any of her outgoings 
into account. But if Cashfloat thought that Mr and Mrs Hs income and outgoings  were  
shared equally,  then I wouldve expected it to have  obtained details of Mrs Hs outgoings as 
well. I wouldve also expected it, if using  both incomes as part of its assessment, to have  
Ref: DRN41383504taken into account  the full rent repayment,  and not just Mr Hs share as it seems  to. So its 
point hasnt changed my mind.
Cashfloats also said it considers the monthly payments Mr H was making to his father  
discretionary, and that FCA guidelines  say that discretionary payments dont need to be 
taken into account.
But I cant see that the FCAs been  explicit in providing a full list of what it deems to be 
discretionary. And even  if I were  to conclude that proportionate checks did not need to 
include these regular  monthly repayments to his father, Cashfloat  wouldve still seen that 
Mr Hs monthly  outgoings  were in excess of his income when he applied  for loans 4  7, and 
that he was not in a position  to commit to any further  monthly commitments at this time. And 
as a responsible  lender, I dont think Cashfloat wouldve agreed to these loans knowing  this. 
Cashfloat has also said that weve not thought about  the fact that Mr H repaid loans 5 and 6 
earlier than scheduled.  And it seems  to be suggesting that this in some  way demonstrated 
that these loans were  affordable for him. 
Id like to assure Cashfloat that in my assessment of Mr Hs complaint that I have considered  
this. But given what Ive seen of Mr Hs circumstances from the time, the fact that when he 
took out loan 7, his monthly income  was just over £2,100, yet his short-term credit  
repayments alone for the following month were in excess of £2,600.  I dont think  it would be 
reasonable to conclude  that Mr H was meeting these payments  in a sustainable manner 
without incurring financial difficulties.
Given what I think Cashfloat wouldve seen  had it carried out proportionate checks, I think 
its more likely Cashfloat wouldve concluded  that Mr H was only managing to repay these  
loans, by taking  out further  loans at the time.  And that he was not meeting these repayments 
out of his income and savings without having to borrow to more.  
So while Ive considered all of the arguments  Cashfloat has raised, I remain  of the opinion 
that I dont  think Cashfloat  carried out proportionate checks at the time Mr H applied  for 
loans 4 - 7. And had it done  so, I think it wouldve concluded these four loans wouldve been  
unaffordable for him, and would not have agreed  to them. 
Ref: DRN41383505what Cashfloat  should  do to put things right
For the reasons  outlined  above, I think Cashfloat should  not have agreed to loans 4  7 for 
Mr H. So it needs to refund all of the interest and charges Mr H paid on these loans.
Specifically, it should:
refund the interest and charges paid for the loans it agreed  between January 2017 and 
March 2018
pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
remove any adverse  information about these  loans  from Mr Hs credit  file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Cashfloat has said that Mr H still owes some of the principal balance  he borrowed on one of 
his loans. So Cashfloat may deduct  this from the compensation that is due to him. To be 
clear, that outstanding  balance should be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, 
but should take account of any repayments Mr H has made towards these loans  as though  
they were applied against the principal sum borrowed.
If Cashfloat no longer  owns  this debt, it needs to buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled 
to make any deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Mr H. If, after the total 
compensation has been applied against  any principal balance outstanding, there is still a 
sum outstanding, a mutually agreeable repayment  plan should be arranged.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
And I require  Western  Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat to put things right as described above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.  
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4138350