K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
background
Mr A opened  a store card account in a shop  in December 1997. FICLs records show  that 
the PPI was added to his account in September 2002.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Mr As card each 
month if hed been unable  to work  because  of injury or sickness, or if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
FICLs records  show that the policy was added to Mr As account more  than four years  
after he opened it. I understand Mr As frustration  that FICL hasnt been  able to provide 
any detail of how the policy was sold. But where  the evidence  is incomplete or 
inconclusive I need to decide  what I thinks most likely to have happened, based  on the 
information I have.  
I think its likely,  on balance,  that the PPI was sold to Mr A over the phone.  I dont know  
what was said to Mr A about the PPI. Mr A says he never  asked for, or agreed to, the 
insurance, and that he assumed that he had to have it. But at the point when he took it 
out, hed already had his store card account for some time. So regardless of how the 
policy was sold,  I think its unlikely hed have thought that the cover was compulsory. 
And based  on what we know about how FICL  sold these  policies at around this time and 
everything weve seen in the past,  I think its more  likely than not that FICL would, in any 
event, have made it clear that PPI was optional, and Mr A would have been asked to 
agree to the cover  if he wanted  it. 
Ive also borne in mind that once the insurance  was added to his account, monthly 
premiums would have started to show on Mr As store card statements. If he hadnt  
wanted the insurance, or wasnt aware  that hed taken it out, I think  its likely  hed have 
queried this at the time. Ive seen nothing to suggest that he did so.
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr A decided to take out 
the cover, knowing that he didnt have to  although I can understand why he may no 
longer remember this, so long after the event.
Ref: DRN40853632FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A. So it didnt have to check  that it was right for 
him. It was for Mr A to decide whether to take the cover, knowing what other means hed 
have had of making his monthly store card repayments if he was off sick, or if he lost his 
job. But FICL did have  a responsibility  to give Mr A clear enough information to enable 
him to decide whether the policy was right for him.
I accept that its possible the information  FICL  gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  as if he 
wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten that now.  Based on what  
hes told us about his circumstances at the time, Mr A was eligible for the policy.  And Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that it was unaffordable for him.
Mr As told us that he cant remember how much sick pay hed have been entitled  to from 
his employer at the time. And he says he didnt have any other means  he could have 
used to make his store card repayments if hed been unable  to work. If hed made a 
successful claim  on the policy for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would  have 
paid a monthly benefit 15% of what he owed  on his store card.  And it would have done 
this each month until his credit  agreement ended, or he returned to work, or the 
outstanding balance at the time of his claim had been repaid- whichever  was the earliest.
So the PPI policy would potentially have covered Mr A for longer  than hed have been 
entitled to sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any payments 
he received from his employer, allowing him to use those to cover  other  day-to-day  
expenses. Taking everything into account,  I think the PPI policy  could have been useful 
for Mr A.
Based  on what hes told us about his circumstances at the time, Mr A doesnt appear  to 
have been affected  by any of the main  things the policy  didnt cover (for example, 
existing medical conditions or unusual employment arrangements). So taking everything 
into account, Im not convinced that better information about  the PPI would have put 
Mr A off taking it out. This means  I dont think hes lost out as a result  of anything that 
FICL may have  done wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4085363