K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid, approved  loans he 
applied for which he could not afford.
background
I attach my provisional decision dated 27 February  2018, which  forms part of this final 
decision and should be read in conjunction  with it. In my provisional decision I explained why 
I intended to uphold Mr S complaint in part. I invited  both parties to provide any further 
comments they may have  by 13 March 2019 before I reached a further decision.
I have not heard from Mr S or his representative. 
QuickQuid has responded with some  detail which I set out in the next section.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
QuickQuid has explained that Mr S declared other credit commitments figure was given as 
£250. QuickQuid  says it carried out a check and its CRA  Validated  other credit 
commitment  figure  for Mr S was £1,018.  The difference between what  it discovered and 
what Mr S declared to it was £768.  
QuickQuid goes on to explain  that this loan was approved based on the income that Mr [S] 
provided, which was £2,612.00. 
Looking on the records QuickQuid originally sent to us I can see that Mr S had declared that 
his housing cost was £450, his utility cost was £200,  his transport cost was £250, his food 
cost was £300, his other  credit commitments  were £250 and other expenses were  £25. 
These added  up to Total Monthly Living Expenses  of £1,475.
So QuickQuid increased his Monthly Expenses  total by including the new CRA validated  
figure of £1,018 (the difference  being £768) which led it to calculate  his EDI of £369. EDI is 
QuickQuids term for its calculation of a customers estimated disposable income.  For Mr S 
this was the subtraction of his higher  Monthly  Expenses figure
(£1,475 + £768 =£2,243)  from his declared  income (£2,612) which leaves £369. 
So now I am aware as to how QuickQuid calculated the EDI for Mr S. 
However, in my provisional decision I explained that I would have  expected QuickQuid to 
have carried out a full review  of Mr S financial situation by the time he was applying for 
Loan 5. So the explanation it has provided goes  some way but to explain its approach,  but 
the adjudicator  and I have looked  at Mr S financial situation in detail. 
And I think that QuickQuid  ought to have done  the same at the time. And if QuickQuid  had, 
I think its likely that it would have  discovered  that Mr S earned more  than he had declared. 
But it also would have  discovered that Mr S expenditure outstripped  his income  by a 
significant margin.
Ref: DRN44409632I uphold Mr S complaint  for Loan  5 and direct that it puts things right for Mr S by 
 refunding any interest and charges  already paid by Mr S on Loan  5; and 
 applying 8% simple interest per year to any interest and charges refunded from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
 remove any adverse payment information  about Loan 5 from Mr S credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest and it must  
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  dated 27 February 2019, 
I uphold Mr S complaint  in part. 
CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) should put things right for Mr S in the way 
I have set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  on or before 20 April 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44409633the provisional decision dated 27 February 2019
background
Mr S took five loans in 2016. Our adjudicator looked at Mr S complaint  and in his opinion the last two, 
loans 4 and 5, ought  to be upheld.  And QuickQuid  ought to put things right for Mr S.
Mr S is represented  by a third party. It has not responded to our adjudicators opinion. So Mr S seems 
to have accepted it. 
QuickQuid has replied by referring to its earlier submissions about the five loans.  And that any loans 
approved after March  2015 were correctly assessed and therefore it does not agree with the uphold  
opinion for Loans 4 and 5. QuickQuid has sent to us its thirteen page document which I have seen 
before and I will refer to as QuickQuids  key procedures document. 
The only loans which appear  to remain unresolved are Loans 4 and 5 and so I will be reviewing these  
two in the context of the lending history overall. 
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I have taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending  money  to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand whether  
the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a sustainable manner without it 
adversely impacting on their financial  situation.  
A lender  should gather  enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on the 
lending. Although the guidance and rules  themselves did not set out compulsory checks, they did list 
a number of things  a lender could take into account before agreeing  to lend. 
The key element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things,  including how much was being lent and when  the sum being borrowed was 
due to be repaid. 
QuickQuid relies on its key procedures document. This Service has responded to QuickQuid on its 
arguments surrounding this key procedures document through earlier final decisions, so I am not 
going to address these elements again here. I have considered its key procedures document  
alongside everything else in making my decision. As this I is a generic set of submissions  and not 
specific to Mr S own circumstances, I attach little weight to them.
estimated disposable income  figures  
QuickQuid has explained  that it calculated what it terms Mr S EDI  his estimated  disposable 
income. It says that it used the information Mr S had given it, namely his net monthly income of 
£2,612 and his expenditure of £1,475. A straight subtraction of one from the other gives a figure of 
£1,137. This was the QuickQuid calculated EDI for Loan 2, which demonstrates to me that QuickQuid 
uses the straight subtraction method to calculate its EDI figure for Loan  2. 
QuickQuid has explained  that it carried out credit bureau searches the results of which I have not 
been given. These appear to have led it to alter the EDI figure  for some loans. This suggests  that 
those results brought forward information which QuickQuid used to reduce the EDI for Mr S. For Loan 
4 it decided Mr S EDI was £713. For Loan 5 it was £369. These  were significant reductions. I have no 
details on which to substantiate  them  or to know how they were  calculated. 
QuickQuid says that based on what it saw from these  checks it decided  to lend to Mr S.
Ref: DRN44409634Loan 4
At the time of Loan 4 Mr S had a declared  net monthly income of £2,612 and the loan application was 
for £350 with a repayment figure of around £473 in total (spread over three payments). So I think  that 
the checks  proportionate to that loan application ought  to have  included using the information 
QuickQuid had gathered  from Mr S and particular  checks in relation to Mr S outstanding short-term 
loan (STL) liability at the time. 
I am not clear  whether  QuickQuid did this but using the information  I have been given from Mr S I 
think that he had one other STL due to be repaid around the time he applied for Loan 4. That was for 
about £399. So I think that QuickQuids  lending  decision was likely to have been appropriate. And I 
say this because the information Mr S had given QuickQuid was that he had about £1,100 to use to 
repay it. And this would have been enough to repay the other  outstanding  STL plus QuickQuids own 
loan. 
I do not know  how the EDI figure for this loan was calculated by QuickQuid and so I have  not used it. 
I do not plan to uphold Mr S complaint for Loan 4. 
Loan 5
By Loan 5, I would have expected QuickQuid to have carried out a full review  of Mr S financial 
situation. By this I mean verifying his income, his expenditure,  regular financial commitments  and 
other STL due around the time he applied for Loan 5. I say this because  it was the fifth loan in about a 
six month period and the principal sums being asked for were all about the same  several hundred  
pounds. The Loan 5 request was for £300  and applied for shortly after repaying Loan 4. All of these 
things point to better checks being proportionate for the fifth loan in the chain  within a relatively short  
period of time.  
QuickQuid calculated  the EDI for Mr S for Loan 5 as £369,  but it is clear from its table presented to us 
that it used  Mr S declared income. By this stage  in the lending relationship I would  have expected it 
to have verified Mr S actual monthly net income. I have seen from Mr S bank statements that this 
was more (around £3,123) and so the EDI at the time Mr S applied for Loan 5 is likely to have been 
incorrect, whichever  way it was calculated. 
Loan 5 was due to be structured over three months. The total payment was due to be £398.  The third 
(scheduled to be the highest) payment  was due to be around £334. Repayment one was soon after 
taking the loan  around £31 on 14 October 2016. Repayment two was around £34 on 28 October  
and the third was due on 11 November 2016. 
Having reviewed  the income and expenditure figures outlined by our adjudicator it seems clear that 
Mr S expenditure outstripped his income  by a significant margin.  And in particular I have seen that he 
had a regular cost of about £967 each month around this time which Mr S has explained to me was to 
purchase an asset. And I think that proportionate checks would have revealed this large financial  
commitment as well as the others he had to contend with at that time. Mr S was not likely  to have 
been in a position to have afforded any of the Loan 5 repayments.
I plan to uphold Mr S complaint for Loan 5 and I plan to direct that it puts things right for Mr S by 
 refunding  any interest  and charges already  paid by Mr S on Loan  5; and 
 applying 8% simple  interest  per year to any interest and charges  refunded from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
 remove any adverse  payment  information about Loan 5 from Mr S credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest and it must give Mr S a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
the extract  ends  here 
Ref: DRN4440963