K820x#14complaint
Mr F complained about the manner in which Sabre  Fund Management Ltd has managed a 
collective investment scheme.
background
One of our investigators  investigated Mr Fs complaint. The background to the complaint was 
set out in his letter  to Mr F dated  13 September 2018. I will not repeat all of the details here, 
but in summary,  Mr F invested in a fund run by Sabre. The fund did not attract  as much 
investment as had been intended.  Sabre took the decision  to close the fund. Most of the 
investments within  the fund were liquidated,  but some took longer. An offer was made  to 
Mr F for the return  of some money, but this was rejected. Following the recovery of the last 
of the illiquid funds  there was no money left to distribute to investors in the fund. The 
charges levied within the fund were greater than the value of the money in the fund. 
Our investigator concluded that Sabre was entitled  to close the fund. The winding  up of the 
fund and recovery of the proceeds  from the investments  took longer than expected. The fees 
incurred by the fund were  allowed in accordance  with the terms set out in the fund 
prospectus. 
Mr F did not agree with the investigator. In summary, he said:
The words from the prospectus about  the fees applied to a live fund. As Sabre chose 
to close the fund, any fees should be charged to Sabre and not the fund. 
Sabre did not put in place a proper liquidation  process. Shareholders should not be 
expected to bear the costs of an annual audit.
The funds assets were wound up at liquidation and should  have been returned to 
shareholders then.  The fund could have been closed and a bank account opened to 
pay any cash balance into for the remaining investments.
One investor in the fund liquidated his holding less than two months  after investing 
without giving the required notice.
Sabre provided  some  further comments on the points raised by Mr F. These were:
The fees related to registered office  and regulatory fees. No audits were undertaken.
It was not possible  to open a bank account  for an entity with no remaining legal 
presence.
The other investor in the fund had no information  that was not available  to Mr F. He 
liquidated his holding some four months before  the decision was made to close the 
fund.
Mr F knew that he was one of a small number of investors in the fund. There  was not 
enough investment  in the fund to meet  the operating costs. It is entirely standard  that 
funds are closed where they do not reach a critical mass in size soon after launch.
The investigator sent Sabres comments to Mr F. He made the following points:
Sabre has not explained why the shareholders should pay for the continuous  on 
hold status of the dormant fund when  it was Sabres decision  to close the fund and 
not the shareholders.
The invoices relate to a license renewal, which is ridiculous when the intention was to 
close the fund.
Ref: DRN42738522The auditing fees which  were not required have  not been commented  on. 
He would like a full return  of the funds  liquidated  capital to the funds shareholders.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusion reached  by our investigator  and for the same reasons.
The terms and conditions  applying  to the fund were set out in the prospectus. They do not 
specifically deal with the wind up of the fund. However, I think it is a decision  that Sabre was 
legitimately entitled  to make. Sabre explained  that the decision to close the fund was made 
because it had not achieved the critical mass to meet the operating  costs.  That seems  to 
me to be a reasonable conclusion for Sabre to make. Although  I appreciate that Mr F is 
disappointed that the fund was closed, I think Sabre was entitled to make  that decision.
The fees and expenses were set out in the prospectus.  As the investigator  explained, these 
do not differentiate  between a live or a closed  fund. The fees deducted are in accordance  
with the terms set out in the prospectus.
I accept Sabres point  that opening a bank account  was not a realistic  option because of the 
difficulty in making the arrangements for a closed fund.
Mr F made the point  that an audit was not required.  Sabre explained in their email to the 
investigator that no audits  had taken place. The invoices for the fees did not include an audit 
fee. I am satisfied from the evidence I have seen  that there were no charges for an audit of 
the fund.
I realise that Mr F will be disappointed with my decision as he has lost the investment he 
made in the fund. However, I am satisfied that Sabre was entitled  to close the fund and 
continue to charge  fees.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.  
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4273852