K820x#14complaint
Mr T and Mrs T are unhappy esure Insurance Limited (esure) declined their claim for theft 
under their home insurance  policy. 
background
In 2018 Mr T and Mrs Ts home was burgled  and the incident  was reported to the police. 
Mr T and Mrs T made a list of items  they said were missing and made a claim for theft under 
their home insurance policy.
Esure declined the claim.  It relied  on the police  report; and testimony from the loss adjuster, 
its agent (who carried out repairs) and from Mr T and Mrs T, in reaching its decision.  The 
police report said the downstairs toilet window  had been left unlocked, and it is believed this 
is how entry  to the home was gained. So esure  said Mr T and Mrs T hadnt done  all they 
could to avoid  the theft.  It was satisfied that the way the thief got into the home meant 
Mr T and Mrs T werent covered - because no violence  and force had been used to enter or 
leave the property. The policy says:
-We will not pay for loss or damage to Your Contents caused while You and 
Your Household are away from the Home  unless violence and force is used to 
enter or leave
Mr T and Mrs T disagreed, and said they believe entry was gained  by breaking the rear door 
lock. Mr T and Mrs T said entry through the unlocked downstairs window was unlikely as its 
very small, and there was no damage to either the window, the window  blind or the plant pot 
inside. 
Our investigator considered Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint but didnt  think  it should be upheld. 
He was satisfied  esure  had reasonably  declined the claim, based on the terms of the policy. 
Mr T and Mrs T disagreed, and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  In summary they said:
they dispute how entry was gained  and dont think  it was through  the downstairs 
window as its too small;
there was damage to the rear door lock, which had been  replaced by esures agent  
Mr T and Mrs T noted damage to the brickwork next to the rear door,  which they feel 
supports this;
they took necessary action to protect  their property.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mr T and Mrs T that Ive thought very carefully about everything theyve 
said and provided.  But having done  so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint  and Ill 
explain why in more  detail. 
When making a claim its the policy holders  (Mr T and Mrs Ts) responsibility to show  an 
insured event has occurred and caused  them a loss. If the policy  holder can show  this has 
happened, the insurer should either  accept  the claim, or show that the loss isnt covered.  
Ref: DRN46537312One way it can do this is by showing an exclusion applies. An exclusion is a term which  
specifies something  isnt covered by an insurance  policy. 
Esure seems  to accept an insured event has taken place and a loss has occurred, but its 
declined the claim  because of an exclusion.  Specifically, its said no violence and force  was 
used to gain entry to, or exit from, the home. Its also said Mr T and Mrs T didnt take 
precaution to avoid  the loss by leaving the window unlocked. 
Thinking about  what esure has said around violence and force,  this kind of exclusion isnt 
unusual for policies like Mr T and Mrs Ts. And from what Ive seen, its not in dispute that 
the downstairs  toilet window  was left unlocked. Mr T and Mrs T have said as much,  and the 
police report says unknown offenders have gained access  via insecure ground floor 
window at rear   which indicates  they thought the window was not secure,  and entry had 
been effortlessly gained. The police report says officers saw both the downstairs toilet 
window and rear door were  open.
Mr T and Mrs T say the window  was too small, and they think  access was gained  through 
the rear door by breaking the lock. But Ive not seen anything to show the window would be 
too small,  and the police report states  there has been no damage  to the outer back door or 
the toilet window . Mr T and Mrs T have said there  was damage to the rear door lock, and 
that this lock was taken  by forensic officers. Theyve also provided a photograph  of damage 
to the brickwork next to the rear door, which they feel supports this argument.  But Ive not 
read anything in the police report that confirms damage to the lock, or to show it was taken 
away. So I dont think its conclusive that this brickwork damage is in any way related to any 
potential damage  to the lock on the rear door.
Additionally, it seems esures  agent was instructed to change the locks because  keys had 
been stolen, not because  of damage. Esures notes suggest it queried any potential  damage 
to the rear door lock with its agent, and the loss adjuster who attended the home. Both 
parties said there was no damage to the rear door  which is consistent with the police 
report. 
So based  on everything I have, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im not persuaded theres  
enough to establish violence and force was used  to enter the home through  either the 
window or the rear door. So, on balance, I dont  think esure  has unreasonably decided  to 
decline Mr T and Mrs Ts claim by relying on the exclusion its applied.  
I appreciate this has been frustrating for Mr T and Mrs T, and this isnt the answer they 
would hope for. But based on the circumstances, I cant say esure has reached  an 
unreasonable decision to decline the claim.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr T and Mrs Ts 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
Simon Louth
Ref: DRN46537313ombudsman
Ref: DRN4653731