K820x#14complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about the amount  of compensation Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) 
has offered for a mis-sold  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out alongside his 
credit card.
background
Mr D took out a credit card with Barclays in September 1999 and at the same time added a 
PPI policy  to the account. In 2018 Mr D complained the PPI had been mis-sold. Barclays  
upheld his complaint and paid him £389.75  in compensation.
Mr D said his credit card was still active and he was told by Barclays when he rang up about 
the mis-sold PPI that the PPI would be cancelled. So he thinks the PPI was being charged 
on the account until 2018 and  far  more  compensation  was due.
Barclays said the PPI was only active from September 1999 until October  1999  and it had no 
records how much  Mr D had actually paid for the PPI. So it had made him an average offer 
for what the PPI may have costs.  
Mr D wasnt happy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator said what Barclays  had done  based on the evidence presented was fair. 
Mr D still didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has agreed to uphold Mr Ds complaint  that the PPI was mis-sold and paid £389.75 
to Mr D in compensation.  It based  this compensation on the average of what  similar 
consumers paid for the same type of policy at a similar time.
Barclays does not have full records of all the transactions on Mr Ds account. It does have 
records from 1 May 2001 onwards and these  do not show any PPI was being paid. 
Barclays has sent screen shot records that indicate  Mr D opened his account, and the PPI 
started, in September 1999.These  computer records also show  that in October 1999 the PPI 
was cancelled. So the PPI was only on the account for one month. 
It is possible that when  Mr D saw the PPI charge  on his first statement he checked what it 
was for and decided  he didnt  want the policy. And it could be possible no charge was made 
as the one months charge may have been refunded as often happens in a situation  like that. 
But from the evidence  available it is most  likely the PPI was removed after one month in 
October 1999 and it certainly wasnt being  charged  on the account in May 2001. So it is 
most likely Mr D would  only have paid the PPI charge  for one month at most.
Ref: DRN43224942Mr D says when he called  Barclays in 2018  to discuss the PPI complaint  he was told during 
the phone  call that the PPI would be cancelled. It is unclear why the adviser he spoke to said 
this. It may have been because they were  following a standard script or indicated  if the PPI 
was still active it would  be cancelled.  But whatever the reason, if this was said,  it seems  it 
was an error. 
I have seen no clear evidence to show that PPI was still active on the account in 2018 or that 
it wasnt cancelled in October 1999.  
The approach taken by Barclays to reach the amount of compensation due to Mr D is in line 
with what we expect  when there is no records  of the actual premiums and interest paid for 
the PPI. So I think  the approach taken by Barclays and the compensation it has paid is fair in 
all the circumstances.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out I am not upholding Mr Ds complaint that the compensation is 
incorrect. I think what Barclays Bank UK PLC has paid to Mr D is fair and Im not telling it to 
pay any more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4322494