K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mrs B says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I havent  set out that detailed  information 
here, but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations  in deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because AXA has provided us with a copy of the application  form 
when Mrs B took the store card in April 1999. Mrs B declined the cover at that time. AXA 
told us that the policy  was sold over the phone  in July 2001. Weve  seen telephone 
scripts from November 2003  which all suggest  the optional nature  of the policy  would 
have been made clear. So, it seems more likely that Mrs B agreed to the PPI and did so 
knowing she did not have  to take it. 
AXA told us the policy would have been sold without advice. Mrs B has provided  no 
testimony about whether advice was given.  I have seen no evidence  of a detailed 
recommendation having been  made to Mrs B in this sale. So, considering all the 
submissions made  in this case, and in the absence of any detailed  testimony  from Mrs B 
to the contrary,  it seems most  likely that AXA didnt recommend  the PPI to Mrs B. So, it 
Ref: DRN48899322didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs 
B enough clear  and timely information  so she could decide for herself it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mrs B. Mrs B told us she 
had only been  employed for a year but would have  received full pay for a whole year as 
company sick pay. We asked  Mrs B for evidence to support  such  generous sick pay and 
received none.  So, whilst I think Mrs B would  have received some  sick pay, I think  it 
would have been less than a year at her full rate of pay. This was the same conclusion  
reached by our adjudicator in their assessment  of the case and has not been queried  by 
either party. The PPI could have paid out in addition to Mrs Bs sick pay and for longer 
than her employer would have paid her at her full rate of pay, most likely. Mrs B told us 
she had some death in service benefits at work, but this wouldnt have helped her if she 
was too ill to work or lost her job. Mrs B told us she would  have been entitled  to a 
payment in the event she was made redundant. But considering her short service at that 
time this was likely  to have been  modest  in nature. And the policy would have  reduced  
her reliance  on that payment in the event she lost her job. And Mrs B told us she had no 
savings and no other insurance she could use to make her repayments in the event  of 
long-term ill health, or if she lost her job. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs 
B  for example  she wasnt affected by the significant exclusions  on or limits to the 
cover. In saying this Ive considered, but not limited my consideration to, the facts that 
Mrs B was in permanent employment and had no pre-existing medical  conditions.  And it 
wasnt too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable   so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think  Mrs B 
would have declined  the cover had AXA done anything more.  
While  the policy contained limitations and exclusions on claims relating to back and 
mental health conditions, in light of Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale and despite  
its limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for 
her. So, I think she would have still thought she had some good  reasons to take the 
policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs B would have  still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely she thought she was getting  and I think  the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
Ref: DRN48899323I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Bs particular case. 
But these  points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means  AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mrs Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2021 .
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4889932