K822xcomplaint
Mrs C has complained that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) didnt handle a claim properly  when  she needed emergency 
help after a family member fell ill overseas.
background 
Mrs C had travelled overseas with her two children  in August 2018. All three  of them  had 
tickets to return together on 30 August  2018, but her youngest daughter  stayed on with a 
family friend to attend a summer camp  it was Mrs Cs plan to pay for her daughter to fly 
home later when the camp ended.
On 5 September 2018 Mrs Cs daughter was taken to hospital  with breathing problems  and 
subsequently admitted.  Mrs C and her other  daughter  flew out to be with her the following 
day. Unfortunately on 12 September Mrs Cs daughter was diagnosed  with a serious medical 
condition that needed treatment to start very quickly  by 15 September.  It was decided  that 
this treatment should take place in the UK, so Mrs C needed to arrange transport to get her 
and her daughters  home. Her daughters  treating doctor said:
She is stable now and safe to travel, though is quite weak and still has some 
discomfort in her back.She  will require wheelchair  transportation to and from the 
plane, and around the airport, as well as with comfortable seating on the plane in 
which she can recline.
Mrs C contacted Mapfre on 12 September  to try to get assistance  with arranging  the flight. 
She says by 13 September it was clear  Mapfre had given her incorrect  information  and acted 
unreasonably, so she booked her own flight home. Mrs C and her two daughters  travelled on 
14 September.
Mrs C complained to Mapfre that it hadnt handled her claim properly. In particular she said 
she was told incorrectly that she would have to pay £2,000  towards the cost of her 
daughters flight home before it would book  a business class  seat.  Mrs C also complained  
that Mapfre said she and her daughter wouldnt have been allowed onto the flight  they had 
booked for medical  reasons. 
Mapfre accepted  it had made some mistakes and offered  £400  as compensation. Mrs C 
didnt think it had properly  answered  her complaint, so brought  it to this service.  
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and thought that, whilst  Mapfre had made 
mistakes, its offer to put things right was fair. But Mrs C asked for it to be looked at again by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following  matters are not in dispute,  so I wont consider them  further in this decision:
Ref: DRN43990952The medical advice  was that Mrs Cs daughter should have travelled in a seat that 
reclined  both Mrs C and Mapfre were trying to get a business  class seat, so for the 
purposes of this decision it is accepted that was the right seat for her.
Mapfre wouldnt have been  responsible  for the cost of the flight  for Mrs Cs elder 
daughter, who travelled with Mrs C when her sister  fell ill.
Mrs C accepts that she would always have had to pay for a return flight for her 
daughter  this is because she would have always had to return to the UK whether or 
not she was unwell.
Mapfre have now paid the costs of the flights for Mrs C and her daughter  that they 
took on 14 September 2018.  (I dont  need  to say whether or not I think it needed  to 
do this.)
Ive also taken into account that the main discussions  about  arranging the flight took place 
over three days between 12 and 14 September. There was a real sense of urgency due to 
the seriousness of Mrs Cs daughters medical  condition and, naturally, this would have been 
a very stressful time for Mrs C and her family. Also, a number of people spoke with Mapfre  
on Mrs Cs behalf which, with the benefit  of hindsight, may have meant communication  
between her and Mapfre  was difficult.
Having listened  to a number of calls and thought  about what Mrs C said happened, I can 
understand why she was upset with Mapfre. I agree  that it didnt give her clear information 
about the claims process and this did cause her frustration  and distress. But I also think  
confusion was caused by some of the messages being passed to Mrs C by her friends. So I 
dont think it would be fair to hold Mapfre  responsible  for all of the distress.
I can see that on 12 September (13 September in the UK), Mrs C called Mapfre  to try to 
arrange for her daughters flight home. I have listened to a recording  of that call. Mapfres 
representative talked  through the process  of arranging the flight and explained that contact 
would be made  with Mrs Cs daughters GP to get her past medical history. At that stage 
Mrs C was concerned that it may take too long to arrange  the flight given the urgency and 
was minded to pay for the flight  herself.  The call handler said if she did that Mapfre  wouldnt 
accept any responsibility  for any medical problems on the flight. It was agreed  Mrs C would 
be contacted with any updates.
The following  day there were several calls with a number of different representatives from 
Mapfre. One of them  dealt  with the request for Mrs C to pay for the cost on an economy  
class flight. Mrs C didnt  disagree with the need to pay for an economy class seat, but she 
didnt agree with the cost proposed by Maprfe (£2,000). Mrs C said she had seen seats  on 
flights available for the next day for around  $500, so she thought  this was the appropriate 
amount to charge. 
Ive seen Mapfres records  that show it was quoted a cost of £2,148.70 for a one way, 
economy class seat on the flight, so I understand why this figure was put forward.  But that 
was the cost Mapfre were  quoted for this specific flight at very short notice, not the normal  
cost of a flight booked in advance which it would  have been fair to charge Mrs C for. It was 
after this call that Mrs C decided to book her own economy class flight  and I can 
understand why she took that course of action given  what  shed been told by Mapfre.
Ive seen that another representative from Mapfre tried to put this right later the same day, 
explaining that the £2,000 figure was a mistake  and apologising  for it. This call took place 
around three  hours after the earlier one. I think the representative did try to sort things out 
and did offer to try to arrange alternative, business  class flights. But by this time Mrs C had 
Ref: DRN43990953booked flights and the options available  werent as direct as the flight Mrs C had booked  
unfortunately there werent any business class seats  on the more direct route Mrs C wanted 
to take. So while I understand why Mrs C didnt want to take the offer up, I do have to bear in 
mind that Mapfre did try to put right the mistake shortly afterwards.
Finally, there was a call on 14 September between a Mapfre representative  and Mrs Cs 
friend. This was to give a final option  to Mrs C for her and her daughter to travel business  
class that day, but to a different destination airport. The representative said they needed to 
confirm within five minutes if they wanted to take that flight  as that was when the airlines 
medical desk shut. They needed  to submit medical  information to guarantee that Mrs C and 
her daughter  would  be allowed to board the plane. 
Recorded on the call is Mrs Cs friend passing this message on and she says something 
different. She explains that Mapfre had spoken to the airline with whom  Mrs C had booked  a 
flight and it had said Mrs Cs daughter would be refused boarding.  But this isnt what the 
representative had said  he hadnt  mentioned this airline at all. I can understand why Mrs C 
would have found this incredibly distressing, but I cant  say this was Mapfres fault. Ive 
heard on the call that the representative  tried to correct Mrs Cs friend, but I think he could 
have done more to make this clear.
In response Mrs C called  the airline  she had booked the flight  with and it confirmed boarding  
wouldnt be refused.  Mrs C and her two daughters returned to the UK on that flight later that 
day. 
As well as the four calls detailed above, Ive listened  to a number of other calls that mainly 
dealt with the process of making a claim and arranging flights. I dont think any of these calls 
in themselves would  have  added to Mrs Cs distress. They were with a number of different 
representatives from Mapfre  which meant the same information had to be given more than 
once. But these calls took place over different times and with people in different time zones, 
so I dont think it was possible for Mrs C to only have one point of contact.
 
But even if Mapfre hadnt made a mistake  in telling Mrs C that shed have to pay £2,000 
toward the cost of a flight, I dont think it would have meant Mrs C and her daughter would  
have been able to take a different flight home.  I say that because the only flights available 
with business  class seats were to a different airport than Mrs C wanted to travel to, which 
meant a long journey from the airport to her daughters treating hospital. So even if things 
had been made clearer,  I still think its most likely Mrs C would have taken the flight  on which 
she and her family travelled.
Mapfre has offered £400 compensation  for what went wrong.  Its difficult  to put a figure on 
the level of distress Mrs C was caused, or say how much of it could have been avoided. At 
the time this happened she was dealing with her daughter being diagnosed  with a very 
serious illness, so I think any mistake was likely to have caused considerable distress to her. 
But Ive also seen that Mapfre tried to put this right quickly and I dont think  it was 
responsible for the misunderstanding about Mrs Cs daughter being  allowed to board her 
flight. On balance, I think the offer Mapfre has made is fair.
Ref: DRN43990954my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. pay Mrs C the £400  it has offered her for the distress caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4399095