K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) hasnt refunded  the money 
she lost when she fell victim to a scam.
background
Miss C had sent a text message  to her aunt, who was abroad on holiday at the time, to thank 
her for a birthday gift. She received a response  saying  her aunt was having difficulty 
accessing her own bank account.  The message asked Miss C to transfer £1,500  to her aunt 
to help out.
Miss C sent the £1,500 from her Halifax  account to the account details provided  in the text 
message. But a few days later it came to light that her aunts phone  account had been taken 
over by fraudsters, and the text messages had come from these fraudsters, not from her 
aunt.
Miss C reported the scam to Halifax. It tried to recover her funds, but no money  remained in 
the recipient account. So Miss C had lost the money shed sent in good faith. 
She complained to Halifax and asked it to reimburse her for what  shed lost in the scam.  
Halifax didnt think it was at fault and said it wasnt liable for the money Miss C had sent.  
Halifax explained that it had done everything  it could, and as soon  as it had been made 
aware of the scam it had taken  the right steps  to block  the recipients account. But it said the 
funds had been removed by the criminals before  Miss C had alerted Halifax  that shed been 
defrauded. 
Miss C asked our service to independently  review her complaint. Our investigator  looked into 
what had happened. The investigator  didnt recommend the complaint  should be upheld.  
She didnt  think Halifax  had missed an opportunity to identify the payment was being  made  
in relation to a scam, because  she didnt  think it would  have  stood out as being  particularly 
unusual or suspicious. She was satisfied Halifax had acted appropriately when it was made 
aware of the scam, and had taken  all of the right steps to try to recover the money  Miss C 
had had stolen  from her.
Miss C didnt accept our investigators view. Miss C thought the amount of the transfer was 
high for her and that Halifax hadnt matched the payee name shed  entered to the recipient 
account. She thought Halifax hadnt  treated her at all fairly and should  refund her for the 
money she lost to the scammer. So, Miss Cs complaint has been passed to me to reach a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as those  of the investigator and for the same reasons. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss C, so Ill explain why Ive come  to this 
conclusion.
From the outset I should say that Im extremely sorry to hear what happened to Miss C. This 
was a cruel scam, and one where a fraudster cynically took advantage of Miss Cs trust. 
Ref: DRN44176822Miss C was not at fault here, she was the innocent victim of a crime, and it is not fair that that 
she has lost out as a result.
So, I can understand entirely  why she feels so strongly that her money should be returned to 
her, and why she does  not accept what Halifax and the investigator  said. 
However, from the outset,  the fraudster is primarily responsible for the theft of this money 
from Miss C. The loss of her money began with the actions  of this fraudster, acting with the 
intention of stealing from Miss C and deceiving her into transferring the money. The 
fraudster has had the benefit  of her funds and is liable  for her loss. 
For me to say Halifax is also liable in this type of situation, I would need to find that the bank 
could and should have acted to prevent  the loss, or that it failed to meet  its obligations in 
some other way. The starting  point here is that Halifax had an obligation to follow Miss Cs 
instructions, and to make  a payment she requested to the specified  account number and sort 
code, unless it had sufficient reason to be concerned that Miss C might be at risk of financial 
harm by doing so.
Miss C sent the payment  to the scammer  without any interaction between  her and the banks 
staff. When  Miss C made the payment, she didnt know she was dealing with a scammer, so 
she sent the money in good  faith, genuinely believing  she was helping  out her aunt. This 
means that at the time Miss C made the payment, she wanted it to go ahead.  She took the 
steps necessary  to authorise the payment to be made. Halifax  then had the primary 
obligation to make the payment she requested, unless it had good reason  to think  Miss C 
might be about to fall victim to a scam.
Ive considered the increase of sophisticated scams in recent  years, and whether it would 
have been reasonable  to expect Halifax to have  had a closer  look at the circumstances 
surrounding this specific payment - especially as I consider that as a matter of good  practice  
Halifax should have  been on the lookout  for unusual and out of character transactions.
That means establishing, based  on the available evidence, whether the transfer made by 
Miss C was so significantly out of character or so unusual  for her that Id reasonably have 
expected Halifax  to have concerns. So, Ive considered the payment against the typical 
pattern of Miss Cs account usage in the six months  leading up to the scam. 
Miss C had made a number of other (legitimate)  transfers out of her account in the six 
months before the scam. This included one transfer out for a larger sum than this payment. 
The £1,500 payment left the majority of her account  balance intact.
While this wasnt the largest transfer Miss C had made over the previous six months,  she is 
right to point out that the payment of £1,500  was a larger than average transfer for her 
account. But looking at the account history,  I dont think it was larger to the extent that Id 
expect Halifax to immediately have had concerns about what  Miss C was asking it to do. 
There wasnt anything else about the transfer  that would clearly  have stood  out as being 
particularly unusual or suspicious in comparison to Miss Cs normal  account activity, or 
otherwise have given Halifax  reason to not carry out the payment shed requested. This 
means I dont find that the bank did anything wrong by following  Miss Cs instructions here.
Miss C points out that she had entered the payees name when she made the payment and 
that this wouldnt  have matched the name of the recipient account. She thinks Halifax  ought 
to have checked this before it made her payment. There  is a newly  introduced system to 
Ref: DRN44176823provide confirmation  of payee names   and if the scam had happened since  this system had 
come into effect then such a check would  likely  have been carried out. 
But that new system had not been implemented at the time of this scam. When Miss C made 
her payment  this simply wasnt  a check Halifax was required or expected to carry out for 
transfers it didnt  have some other reason to question. As noted above, Halifax  had a 
primary obligation to follow  Miss Cs instructions in making payments to the sort code and 
account number  she had requested. The payee name entered might typically be shown on a 
customers bank statement but wasnt used for verification. So I cant say Halifax  was liable 
through not taking the additional step of double-checking the payee name. In the absence of 
other concerns about the payment it had no obligation to do this.
Its also the case that since the time of this scam  a new voluntary code has been introduced 
to increase protection for customers. But the code doesnt apply retrospectively, and I cannot  
require Halifax to follow a code that was not in place  at the time.
Lastly, Halifaxs records show  that it did try to recover the money shed sent very quickly  
after the scam came to light.  Unfortunately,  no funds  remained. I think Halifax  did what  it 
could at that time to help Miss C. Scammers typically withdraw funds very quickly, and often 
before the sender has realised theres been a problem,  and that appears to be what 
happened here.
Having considered everything, Im not going to uphold  Miss Cs complaint about  Halifax.  I do 
appreciate how disappointing  this will be for Miss C. I am very sorry that Miss C fell victim to 
what was a cruel and opportunist scam,  and that she has lost out as a result.  I appreciate 
this is a lot of money for her to have lost. But in all of the circumstances, I havent  found 
Halifax could reasonably have prevented what happened.  That means I cant fairly require 
Halifax to refund Miss C.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Miss Cs complaint  about Bank  of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 January 2021.
Stephen Dickie
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4417682