K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Novaloans Ltd irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about seven short term loans Novaloans provided  to Mr C between  
November 2016  and August 2018.  Mr Cs borrowing history is as follows:
loan 
number start  dateloan 
amount  (£) termhighest 
repayment 
(£) end date
1 04/11/2016 100 3 months 45 16/01/2017
2 30/01/2017 100 3 months 47 13/04/2017
3 22/05/2017 250 3 months 123 15/08/2017
4 09/10/2017 100 3 months 44 15/12/2017
5 21/12/2017 150 3 months 74 15/03/2018
6 10/05/2018 150 3 months 65 13/07/2018
7 24/08/2018 230 3 months 92 14/12/2018
The loans were  instalment loans and the highest  repayment amounts have been rounded up 
in the above table.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Cs complaint and thought  the loans from October 2017 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Novaloans disagreed and the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Novaloans needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Novaloans  should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN47316212There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Novaloans was required to establish  whether Mr C could sustainably  repay his loans   not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained that there  was nothing to suggest  Novaloans irresponsibly lent 
Mr C loans 1 to 3, I agree  with the adjudicator. Mr C appears to accept  that finding and as 
theres no further dispute about these loans,  Ive focused my decision on loans 4 to 7  the 
loans that remain  in dispute.
Novaloans has disagreed with the adjudicator  upholding  loans 4 to 7 on the grounds  that its 
checks went far enough and those checks showed  that Mr C had sufficient disposable  
income to repay the loans. While this may be the case, Novaloans  had a responsibility to 
lend loans that Mr C could sustainably repay. Affordability of loans on a pound and pence 
calculation doesnt  necessarily mean  that the loans were responsibly lent.
So Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Novaloans  lending  history with Mr C, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Novaloans should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Novaloans should  have realised  
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
4 I say this because:
At this point Mr C had been indebted to Novaloans for more than 10 months.  So it 
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr C was having to borrow  further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving  in his finances and that 
Mr Cs indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Mr Cs first loan was for £100 and loan 4 was for a similar amount. I accept that loan 
4 was less than Mr Cs previous  loan but I can see that his loan amounts after loan 4 
increased. Overall, Mr Cs loans werent decreasing - they were either remaining at a 
consistent level or increasing. So at this point Novaloans ought to have known that 
Mr C was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in their income but to 
meet an ongoing  need. 
Ref: DRN47316213Novaloans argues that there  were gaps  between some of the loans and that 
suggests that Mr C wasnt dependent on these loans. From the lending  history, I can 
see that the longest gap during the period was between loans 5 and 6 for less than 
two months. The first gap was between loans 3 and 4 but by then, Mr C had been 
borrowing without any gaps for more than a year.  I dont think  that any of the gaps in 
the lending was sufficient for Novaloans to reasonably believe that Mr Cs 
circumstances had improved. Also, I can see that Mr C repaid some of his loans 
early but that on its own doesnt mean  that the loans were sustainable. I think 
Novaloans shouldve  been concerned about why Mr C was repaying  loans  early  but 
was still returning  to borrow further,  I think it may have suggested that there were 
wider financial problems  that Mr C had.
Mr C wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Novaloans.  Loan 7 was 
taken out around 21 months after Mr Cs first loan. And it was for a larger  amount. 
Mr C had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Novaloans 
over an extended period.  Novaloans  agrees that its loans arent suited  for long term 
use and given the pattern that Mr C had displayed during the lending relationship, it 
ought to have been aware that he was reliant on these loans and it shouldnt have 
continued lending.
I think that Mr C lost out because Novaloans continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
The length of time over which Mr C borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 to 7 and Novaloans  should put things right.
putting things right  what Novaloans  needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans 4 to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
any information recorded about  loans  4 to 7 is adverse.  So all entries about them 
should be removed  from Mr Cs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Novaloans to take off tax from this interest.  Novaloans  
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN47316214my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Cs complaint. Novaloans  Ltd should  
pay Mr C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Tola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4731621