K820x#14complaint
L, a limited liability partnership, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc accepted a payment in 
sterling to its US dollar account resulting  in an exchange loss.
background
A client of L sent it a payment in US dollars. That clients sending bank used an intermediary 
bank to route the payment. The intermediary  converted the payment into sterling before 
sending it to HSBC.  When it was received HSBC converted it back  into US dollars before 
crediting it to Ls account. L says that, as a result, it has received just under 900 US dollars 
less than it was sent. L wants HSBC to investigate this and compensate  it for this loss.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that HSBC had 
told L that it would need to contact the other  parties involved. HSBC  had not made any error 
with the payments although it accepted it had not initially told L the correct  exchange rate it 
had used when  it converted the payment.
L did not agree. It said that its relationship is with HSBC not with the intermediary or the 
sending bank. HSBC  contributed to the error by accepting the payment in sterling  to a US 
dollar account. It had not enquired why this was received  in a different currency. And the 
resultant shortfall  was foreseeable by a prudent banker. The intermediary bank  would not 
assist and saying  HSBC did not need to do anything caused  prejudice to Ls position.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L required its client to pay it in US Dollars.  That client  originated  the payment instruction with 
its sending bank and it used the intermediary  bank. From the evidence  Ive seen that 
payment instruction was not executed in line with the instruction. HSBC here was only the 
receiving bank and had no other role. So I dont think it can be responsible for any error  in 
making the payment. I accept that L will likely not be able to take this up with the 
intermediary or the sending bank. But I think it would need to contact its client about this.
The payment instruction  said that the payment  was to be credited to Ls currency account.  
The terms and conditions  of the account state that if a credit is in a different currency to the 
currency of the account  that it will be converted using the HSBC Exchange rate and that 
this is immediately after we receive  the payment. I dont think it was practical here for HSBC 
to ask for instructions from L about  what to do with the payment. I also dont think  the 
payment being  in a different currency to the account was a reason to reject  it altogether  and 
that HSBC should have  done so through a duty of care to L. 
I understand Ls point  that HSBC might  have initially been more  helpful in providing  an 
explanation about the payment  and why it differed from the amount L expected.  Its response  
letter directed L to its client. That was not wrong and I dont think  HSBC was obliged  to take 
any other action to investigate this for L. So I dont  have a basis  to say that it made an error 
or should have  done anything further.
Ref: DRN46625652my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4662565