K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr P bought the policy in 2006  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  He applied for the 
mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr P for disability  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £31.20 a month  towards Mr Ps mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £525.23  a month.  
At the time,  Mr P was employed as a health  and safety manager. He has told us he wasnt 
entitled any enhanced redundancy or sick pay and that he didnt have any other means  of 
repaying his mortgage should he be unable to work. Mr P has said he had medical 
conditions at the time of the sale. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account started in 2006. 
Mr Ps representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ps representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr P wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ps representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr P and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr P received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN44948002Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr P disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ps. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
Ref: DRN44948003The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Halifax  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr P sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr P, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr P suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN44948004Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr P and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr P know he had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Unfortunately, due to the passage of time, Halifax no longer holds copies  of all the 
paperwork Mr P saw when the PPI was sold, such as the form asking him to apply for it. But, 
from experience of how Halifax sold these policies in branch at the time, I think it likely he 
was given a choice about taking out the cover. I think thats supported by the documentation 
I can see he was sent shortly after the PPI was added which referred to him choosing  to take 
out the cover.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr P knew the policy  was optional and 
he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax and Mr P agree that it provided  advice during this sale.
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr P with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr P. It seems Mr P cant remember clearly what  happened and there is 
no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mr Ps 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  he would  have  been caught by the significant  exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs.  For example, there  is 
nothing to suggest Halifax considered whether he had any pre-existing medical conditions. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr P given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr P, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr P met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr P had a need for the policy   he would not have received any enhanced sick pay 
if he was unable  to work due to illness, his redundancy benefits are likely to have 
been limited and he didnt have any savings  to fall back  on. The policy  would have 
helped him manage the consequences if he was unable to work.
Ref: DRN44948005-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr P. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr P. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ps employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. Regarding  his pre-existing  medical  conditions, Mr P has told us about 
the back and knee problems he suffered before the sale.  However, it seems they 
occurred many years before the sale and werent likely  to cause him to take time off 
work by 2006.  
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr P be disabled  or unemployed for 30 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mr Ps circumstances, 
the fact the policy  protected the mortgage repayments relating to his home and the 
potential consequences  should Mr P be unable  to make the repayments on loans 
secured against  his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr P sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Halifax  was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr P was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr P was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr P would  have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr P agreed to take out the policy in the first instance. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr P Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr P all of the information  he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ps representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ps. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ps representative considers  to be poor 
Ref: DRN44948006value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr P about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ps representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr P has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr P? To what extent  did Mr P suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr P. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr P suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr P would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Halifax done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr P, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr P has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mr P would have acted differently, or whether  he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr P says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr P had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ps circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Ref: DRN44948007Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr P knew he would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear Halifax told him the exact premium at the point Mr P applied 
for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mr P would have been told the cost before the 
policy started and he paid for the policy for a time, so if the costs were significantly  at odds 
with his expectations at the point of sale, its possible  he might have raised that with Halifax  
at the time, or reconsidered  his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr P would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr P would get back in return 
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Ps expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his mortgage  
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did  if anything, it is more 
likely than not that the policy actually  paid more in the event of a claim than he would have 
expected as there was an additional  cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr P thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and that Mr P knew  about 
or ought to have  known about before the start date of the policy  or had consulted  a 
doctor for in the 12 months before  the start date. Claims would be considered where 
Mr P had been free of symptoms and hadnt  consulted a doctor or received treatment 
for the condition within 24 months before the claim; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr P 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr P be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr P pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr P from taking  out the policy. 
The evidence about Mr Ps circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to him should 
the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr P says he had two medical conditions 
when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have provided cover  had he needed 
time off work because  of these conditions, I dont  think better information about this 
exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. 
Ref: DRN44948008I say this largely because  Mr P says the back and knee problems he suffered  first developed 
in the 1970s and 1980s respectively. And I cant see that the conditions continued to cause 
Mr P problems such that, by 2006,  they were  thought likely to result in him having to take 
prolonged periods of time off work.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mr P would have been caught by any of the 
other significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out. 
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr P might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr P 
from taking out the policy,  Mr P, in his circumstances,  still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr P had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his thinking about what  he would  have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible he may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr P was unable (through  disability)  to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Halifax may not have  told Mr P that any claim he made would be limited  to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for, but he had 
limited other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr P would still have thought a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr P be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensuring  his home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr P would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr P was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr P 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ps representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN44948009Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr P would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr P 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr P in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that Mr P would not have taken out the policy, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr P compensation, as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr P thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr P, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2006 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ps representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr P and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr P in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN449480010my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4494800