K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Society  of Lloyds (SOL) decision to decline a claim he made under his 
Landlords property insurance  policy.
background
Mr B has explained that he discovered  some damage to a window and roof at his property. 
He said that during stormy  weather  his tenant  had left the top opener of an attic window 
open at his property  and the weather caught this, causing it to break and land in the 
garden. In addition  to this, three roof slates detached from the roof and landed in the garden. 
So, he made a claim  under his property insurance  policy for the loss.
SOL investigated the claim,  sending  a surveyor out to the property to look at the reported  
damage. Following  this, it declined Mr Bs claim. It said the damage  to the property wasnt as 
a result of a storm. Instead,  it was because the window and roof were suffering from wear 
and tear. It noted  that the damage to the property was caused by this wear and tear, and the 
storm weather just highlighted the problems.
Mr B didnt feel this was fair. So, he referred his complaint  to this service for an independent 
review. Our investigator considered this complaint  and didnt think  this complaint  should be 
upheld. He said that whilst there  were  storm conditions  surrounding  the time of the loss, the 
evidence was more  persuasive in showing the damage was as a result of the deteriorated 
condition of the window and roof, as opposed to having been caused by the storm. 
Mr B didnt agree. So, his complaint has been  referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ive explained why below.
Ive looked at Mr Bs policy,  to see what cover it provides. And it does provide cover for 
damage to Mr Bs building  as a result of a storm. But, SOL has said Mr B isnt covered for 
his loss under this section of the policy. So, Ive needed to decide whether this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  complaints  about  storm damage  we consider the following three 
questions;
Has it been  proven,  on balance, there  were  storm  conditions on or around the date 
the problem occurred?
Is the nature of the damage consistent  with storm damage?
Were the prevailing weather conditions the main  or dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer  to all of the questions above  is yes the claim would  be covered. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is no the claim  wouldnt be successful. So, Ive 
thought about these  questions when reaching  my decision.
Ref: DRN42541062has it been proven,  on balance,  there were storm conditions on or around the date the 
problem occurred?
Mr Bs policy  doesnt define what it means by the word  storm. So, Ive thought about what 
this service would  consider as storm. This service thinks a storm is normally a bad period of 
weather with very high winds, and generally, some accompanying rain or snow.
Ive had a look at the independent weather records from around the time the damage  
happened in March 2017. Taking into account the information in these records  Im satisfied 
there was a storm around the time the damage  occurred. The day before  the loss there  are 
winds I consider strong enough to be termed as a storm. So, the answer to this question is 
yes.
is the nature  of the damage consistent  with storm damage?
The reported  damage is tiles that have been  displaced from the roof, and a top window 
opener that was open being damaged by the force of the wind. I do think  its possible for 
strong winds to cause this type of damage. So, I think the nature of the damage  is consistent 
with that caused by a storm. So, the answer to this question is also yes.
were the prevailing  weather conditions the dominant or main cause of the damage?
SOL has said it wasnt the weather conditions at the time of the loss that were the main 
cause of the damage to the window  and roof. Instead, it said it felt the main  cause of the 
damage was the condition  of both the window and the roof. 
Ive thought carefully about this. And Ive reviewed the report from the surveyor  that visited 
Mr Bs property  after the damage occurred. The surveyor noted that the three slates  have 
come loose to the roof due to the roof suffering from nail fatigue and it noted a number of 
previous repairs it could see had been completed  on the roof. It also said;
the timber window was completely rotten.  The top opener has come  loose  due to lack of 
maintenance and poor condition of the window. The complete window frame requires 
replacing as no repairs  would be possible to the existing timber frame  being rotten.
I havent seen  anything to dispute what this surveyor has said. And the report  provided by 
the surveyor also contains pictures of the relevant window and roof. Having looked at these, 
I can see these are consistent with the above explanation that the window was rotten, and 
suffering from wear and tear. And the roof being in need of maintenance too. So, I think 
SOLs decision that the window was damaged as a result of this, rather than the weather at 
the time of the loss is reasonable. So, the answer  to the last question is no.
Given the above, I think SOL acted reasonably in saying Mr Bs claim wasnt  covered under 
this section of the policy.  Im satisfied the evidence  shows its most likely  that the 
deteriorated condition  of the roof and window caused the wall to collapse. And the weather 
conditions at the time of the loss highlighted these problems. So, I dont require SOL to do 
anything more here.
Ref: DRN42541063my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Society of Lloyds to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4254106