K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC discriminated against her by refusing her mortgage 
application because  her income  comes from disability-related welfare benefits.
background
Ms M was living in a property mortgage  free. In 2017 she decided  to move house to be 
closer to a care and support network, and needed  a small mortgage to assist with the costs.  
So she approached Lloyds. She wanted to borrow around £30,000 and her net income at 
the time was just under £17,000.
The Lloyds adviser she spoke to took some details of her finances and circumstances. The 
adviser learned that Ms Ms income was primarily made up of benefits related to her 
disability  including employment support allowance (ESA) and personal independence 
payments (PIP). The adviser  told her that Lloyds wouldnt take benefits income into account 
in full, and confirmed this with a colleague.  It would only take into account 60% of this 
income, not the full amount. As a result, Ms Ms application was never  formally completed  
because the adviser  said it would inevitably be refused and so there was thought to be no 
point in proceeding.
Ms M complained. She said that she didnt want to borrow a large amount, and she believed 
the mortgage was clearly  affordable based  on her income  the problem was that Lloyds 
didnt like the source of her income, rather than considering its amount wasnt enough. If it 
had taken her full income into account, its likely the mortgage would have been granted.  
Ms M said that as a result  shed had to take her house off the market,  her move  had fallen 
through, and she was forced to continue  living in a property and location that was 
increasingly unsuitable for her.
Lloyds responded to her complaint. It said that at the time its policy was only to take into 
account 60% of income from PIP and ESA  but it had since changed the policy.  It would 
now consider 100%  of ESA  though still only 60% of PIP  and suggested she consider 
applying again.  It has since  said that this is because  it considers ESA to be income 
replacement, but PIP designed  to cover additional expenses often associated with disability. 
And in any case it wont generally accept  an application from a customer who doesnt  have 
any earned income alongside  their benefits income.
Ms M brought her complaint to us. Lloyds gave us some more information about  its lending 
policy. Our investigator thought that Lloyds  policy was more flexible that Ms M had been 
told, and it should have  assessed her application. He said it should re-consider it looking at 
the detail of her individual circumstances,  and should pay £500  compensation.
Ms M didnt accept that. She thought shed been  discriminated  against and Lloyds had acted  
unlawfully because of her disability. She didnt  think the compensation was enough. She 
said that since the application  was made  house  prices in her area had remained static  but 
prices in the area she wanted to move  to had increased  meaning  she now wasnt able to 
afford the same kind of property. 
I issued a provisional decision in which I set out my initial thoughts on the complaint. I said:
Ms M in fact made two applications for a mortgage to Lloyds. Another  ombudsman 
has issued a decision which said that her complaint about the first application was 
Ref: DRN42282852out of time because  she didnt refer it to us within six months  of Lloyds response and 
there were no exceptional circumstances.  I agree  that all I can consider here is the 
second application, so Ill say no more  about the first.
The rules  about  how the Financial Ombudsman  Service handles complaints  are set 
out in the Dispute Resolution: Complaints (DISP) of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys,  handbook.
In considering this case, and reaching the outcome I have, I have taken into account 
the following   as DISP 3.6.4 R requires:
Relevant law;
Relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;
Relevant codes  of practice; and
What I consider to be good industry  practice at the time.
But although  Ill take all of these into account, ultimately Ill decide Ms Ms complaint 
by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
the complaint.  Thats  what  DISP  3.6.1 R requires me to do. 
relevant law
The heart of Ms Ms complaint is that she believes a refusal to consider her 
application as a person in receipt  of disability benefits as her only income amounts to 
discrimination. Its therefore  important  that I take into account relevant law, including  
the Equality Act 2010, and the obligations  it places on Lloyds as a provider of a 
service (in this case, mortgages).  The Equality Act says, broadly, that a service 
provider  such as a mortgage lender  must  not discriminate by not providing a 
service, or providing it on different terms, or by failing to make reasonable 
adjustments. 
Although Ms M has specifically complained  of unlawful discrimination, its important to 
note that its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service  to make a decision on 
whether theres  been a breach of the Equality Act. Thats  the role of the courts.  
Although Im required to take into account  relevant law, among other things,  my role is 
ultimately to decide  Ms Ms complaint in accordance with what  I think  is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive considered what Ms M has said of her conditions and Ive noted  her benefits 
awards and the reasons for them. I note the DWP has awarded her indefinite ESA 
and PIP. These are both benefits which are subject to assessment  against stringent 
qualifying criteria and therefore  while  I havent  myself seen detailed medical 
evidence, Im satisfied the DWP  found Ms M has a disability which qualifies her for 
receipt of those benefits. And I think I can rely on this in concluding that Ms M has a 
disability which is protected by the Equality Act. 
The Act says there are various forms of discrimination  direct,  indirect and 
discrimination arising from a disability. Direct discrimination on grounds of disability 
can never be objectively justified. But indirect discrimination, or discrimination arising 
from a disability, is permitted where it can be what the law calls objectively justified. 
Thats not a straightforward concept, but in essence  Lloyds would need  to show  that 
it has a specific lawful aim in mind in taking the stance it did, and that the way it 
chose to achieve that aim was a proportionate  means of doing  so.
Ref: DRN42282853Finally, the Act also says that where  a service providers provision, criterion or 
practice puts disabled  persons generally at a substantial disadvantage  compared to 
those who dont have  a disability, it should  take reasonable  steps to avoid  the 
disadvantage. Service providers should anticipate the requirements  of disabled 
people and the adjustments that may need  to be made for them. However, nothing in 
the Equality Act requires a service  provider to take a step which  would fundamentally 
alter the nature of the service. This is known as a duty to make  reasonable 
adjustments  and again, this is relevant law Ive taken into account.   
I dont think direct discrimination is relevant here. Its not been  suggested  that Lloyds 
refused Ms M a mortgage because  she has disabilities. However, its possible that a 
court may find that a refusal to consider benefits (or to consider benefits as sole 
income) indirectly discriminates against  persons with a disability, since they are more 
likely to receive benefit payments large  enough to make a mortgage affordable than 
other benefits recipients, such as jobseekers without disabilities. 
Alternatively a court might consider that Ms Ms receipt of disability-related benefits is 
something arising in consequence of her disability   and so, therefore, Lloyds refusal 
to accept that as valid income for the purposes  of demonstrating affordability is also 
something arising from her disability.  
In either  case,  a court could still find that not to be unlawful  if Lloyds  could show  it to 
be objectively justified. 
Finally, a court may find that a provision, criterion or practice  such  as Lloydss 
policy only to consider part of disability benefit  income, or not to consider benefits as 
sole income  puts those  with a disability at a substantial disadvantage compared  to 
those without a disability who earn the same amount of income  from other sources 
such as employment   and that it would be a reasonable adjustment to put that policy 
aside.
As Ive said,  I think each of these  arguments is something that a court may consider. 
Its not my role to find a breach of the Act or decide what  a court  would or ought  to 
find. But it is my role to take these legal principles  into account in deciding  whats  fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances.
regulatory requirements
In the same  way, Im required to take into account  the regulators rules   known as 
MCOB  when deciding  whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
The rules  around affordability  assessments for mortgage applications are to be found 
in MCOB 11.6. They require a detailed assessment of affordability, based  both on 
income and expenditure, to be carried out. 
MCOB 11.6.5 R (2) says a firm must take full account of: (a) the income of the 
customer, net of income tax and national  insurance;  and, as a minimum (b) (i) the 
customers committed expenditure; and (ii) the basic essential expenditure and basic 
quality-of-living costs  of the customers household.
Ref: DRN42282854MCOB 11.6.9 G (1) says income may be derived from sources other  than 
employment (such as pensions or investments), or from more than one job.
MCOB 11.6.20 R requires a lender to have,  and operate, a written lending  policy  
setting out, among other things, (1) how income  and expenditure is to be assessed, 
including  (a) details  of the types of income which  are acceptable; (b) the 
proportion of different  income streams which is acceptable. 
MCOB 11.6.21 G says Examples  of different income streams in MCOB 11.6.20  R 
(1)(b) are: income derived  from sources other  than employment; income from more 
than one job; and elements of income  that are not contractually guaranteed.
In addition, there is the overarching obligation  in Principle 6, which says A firm must 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
what is Lloyds lending  policy?
Lloyds has shared its policy on accepting benefits as part of a mortgage application. 
The policy shows that it will accept certain  benefits  but only as a supplement to 
earned income, not where the applicants sole income comes from benefits. Lloyds 
policy on universal credit makes this clear. And while  Ms M doesnt receive universal 
credit, the policy on treatment of the benefits  she does receive makes clear they can 
only be taken into account as other not main income. Lloyds told our investigator 
that this is because benefits payments are not guaranteed to be available indefinitely. 
And where  it does  accept  benefits, it will  as Ive set out above   only take part of 
certain benefits into account.  
While no affordability assessment was done   and details of Ms Ms expenditure 
werent taken  I do think its noteworthy that she wanted to borrow  less than double 
her annual income. This doesnt mean the application would have been granted  but 
its not uncommon for income multiples  to be a starting point,  and multiples of three 
or four times  income to be acceptable.  So leaving aside the question of its source, 
the amount of Ms Ms income falls within the boundaries of what  Lloyds would 
consider. 
Lloyds explained  that it considers certain benefits   such as ESA  to be income 
replacement, so it will take into account the full amount. But other  benefits,  such  as 
PIP, are intended to be used to cover an applicants increased costs due to disability, 
and so it only takes a proportion  of these benefits into account.  
It said it would consider each application on its own individual  merits and its 
underwriters have the power to override this if the additional costs  are related to 
housing rather than other expenses such as mobility, therapy or carer  support. But 
that appears to be the only exception it makes; it doesnt, for example   according to 
its lending policy  assess what an applicants actual expenses  are and take those  
into account. It simply applies a standard notional deduction, with the limited 
exception of cases where there are extra housing costs.
Lloyds hasnt explained why it wont consider benefits income at all where there  is no 
earned income alongside. It said that it doesnt anticipate  a mortgage would be 
affordable in such situations  but that doesnt explain why its policy is not even  to 
consider such an application.
Ref: DRN42282855what was Lloyds decision  in this case?
Ive seen the record of the online chat between the branch advisor  Ms M spoke to 
and a mortgage specialist. The advisor  was told that only 60% of her benefits could 
be taken into account, and there was no exception to that policy. Following this, no 
mortgage application was formally made.  So Lloyds  never considered her 
application, or carried out an affordability assessment. Ms M was simply told that 
Lloyds couldnt  offer her a mortgage  because she was in receipt of benefits.  Her 
application didnt  proceed to a full assessment or an underwriting  decision.  
The advisor wasnt told this in the online chat,  but in fact Lloyds wouldnt consider Ms 
Ms benefits  at all, in the absence of earned income  alongside them. 
Lloyds has suggested  that an application could have been considered by an 
underwriter, had it been allowed to get that far. But I dont see how, if that had 
happened, it could have  been granted, given the requirement for there to be earned 
income as well as benefits income.
was Ms M treated fairly?
Although Ms Ms application wasnt given detailed consideration or referred to an 
underwriter  in effect, she was prevented  from even making  a formal application  it 
does seem that this was in line with Lloyds policy. As Ms M received only benefits, 
and had no earned income, Lloyds wouldnt take any part of her benefit income into 
account, and so couldnt offer her a mortgage.  
To that extent, Lloyds  followed  its policy. And the detailed requirements in the 
regulations require it to have  and operate a policy. 
While the rules say Lloyds should take full account  of Ms Ms income,  in my view 
the combined effect of MCOB 11.6.20 (1) (b) and 11.6.21 also envisages the 
possibility of only a proportion of non-employment income being taken into account  in 
lending policies. Though the regulations dont specifically provide for non-
employment income being  disregarded altogether unless  theres  also employment 
income, I think the detailed provisions  of MCOB give Lloyds a wide discretion in how 
it assesses affordability.  However, that discretion has to be exercised fairly  and 
lawfully. 
Although no detailed affordability assessment  was carried out, it seems  likely on the 
face of it that Ms Ms application would be affordable  if her income  was from an 
acceptable source. She wanted to borrow less than double her annual  income   and, 
while income multiples arent sufficient, alone, to determine affordability,  thats 
significantly below whats often acceptable. Though of course thats  subject to what  
her expenditure was  which Lloyds didnt explore in this case.
While Lloyds has said that it doesnt think that a mortgage would be affordable to 
someone whose  sole income comes  from benefits, I dont think  thats necessarily 
true. Disability- related benefits  are, in general,  higher  than unemployment benefits. 
So its more likely that a person who receives  benefits because of a disability will 
receive enough to make  a (small) mortgage  affordable than a person  who receives 
only out of work benefits.
Ref: DRN42282856And Ms Ms benefits amount to rather more than a standard full-time employee on 
minimum wage would earn. So there are potential applicants for similar-sized 
mortgages whose  income  at the same  level as Ms Ms  would  qualify them for a 
mortgage because  it comes from earnings rather than benefits. 
Its true that some  though by no means all  of Ms Ms benefits are intended to 
assist with the additional costs of her disability,  rather  than to act as income  
replacement. But those  benefits arent  assessed on the basis  of specific expenditure 
Ms M has  and theres  no obligation  on her to spend them  in that way either. 
Theyre based rather on notional allowances assessed according to her conditions, 
rather than her specific individual  needs in all her circumstances. Thats  how the 
benefits system operates. 
So while Ms M may well have additional  expenditure because of her condition, thats 
not a question Lloyds ever explored. An income and expenditure assessment, of the 
kind Lloyds refused to do, would have showed  what her actual expenditure was and 
how much  of her overall income was available for mortgage purposes.  Such  an 
exercise would  mean any decision was based  on Ms Ms finances in her own 
situation, rather than assumptions or notional figures.
Lloyds has argued  that benefits dont represent guaranteed income. Thats  true, but 
theres very little income of any sort that is guaranteed for the long term. A person in 
employment could  lose their job, for example.  As someone dependent  on benefits 
because of a disability, Ms M does have less chance of replacing  lost income than 
someone able to work who could find another job. But Ive seen her benefit award 
letters. They  show she has been given indefinite  awards. Given  the nature of her 
conditions and the benefits  she receives   and having taken into account  the specific  
awards made to her  I think her income could be considered to be stable and not 
likely to fall in future, absent substantial unforeseeable changes  in public policy.
Had Ms M received the same amount of income,  but from a different source   such 
as employment   Lloyds would have  considered  an application based on her actual 
income and expenditure. But because of her disability, she isnt able to work, and is 
reliant on benefits. The effect of Lloyds policy is that it wouldnt even consider 
whether a mortgage would be affordable for her, in her specific circumstances, 
because of the source of her income  rather than the amount of it. And that source  
was a matter directly related to her disability. 
Lloyds hasnt explained why it will only consider benefits income  alongside earned 
income. If, in response to this provisional  decision  it chooses to do so, I will of course 
consider what it says. But in the absence of an explanation its difficult  for me to find 
that the impact  of its policy  on Ms M was fair. 
I do recognise Lloyds  desire to be a responsible lender, and its regulatory obligations 
only to lend mortgages that are affordable. But I think that it could have looked  at Ms 
Ms own circumstances  and assessed  her income  and expenditure to see whether 
she could afford the mortgage she wanted to apply for, in line with the standard  
process it applies to all other applicants. I dont  think  it was necessary or fair to 
achieve that aim by refusing even to consider her application simply because she 
was in receipt of benefits without also receiving an earned income  or to make 
assumptions about, or apply notional deductions for, her expenditure which might not 
Ref: DRN42282857be reflected in reality.  And even if Lloyds is able to explain why its policy is 
proportionate, given the impact Ive identified it has had on Ms M I would think it fair 
and reasonable for Lloyds to set the policy aside in her case,  and carry out a manual 
assessment of her application.
putting things right
Im pleased to note that Lloyds accepted the investigators view and agreed to 
reconsider 
Ms Ms application. It has said it will ensure  any future  application she makes is 
manually underwritten, taking account  of her individual circumstances.  In my view, in 
doing so it should consider her actual  income and actual expenditure in full to 
determine if the mortgage is affordable.
The investigator also proposed awarding £500  compensation,  which Lloyds 
accepted, but Ms M didnt. She says that Lloyds has acted unlawfully and she has 
been the victim of a serious  injustice,  which my award of compensation should mark. 
And she says that as a result of its decision  shes been unable to move  house to be 
nearer sources of support, which has had consequences for her  and that the delay 
has caused her financial  loss because the sorts  of properties she would have bought  
have risen in price faster than hers has. I accept that this means that theres been a 
considerable impact  on her.
I recognise this impact this has had and the continuing difficulties Ms M faces  living 
at her current property far from her sources  of support. Taking  that into account, I 
think an award of £750 is fair compensation for the distress Ms M was caused by her 
application not being assessed fairly.
But I dont have any evidence of the financial loss Ms M says shes  incurred. And its 
also fair to say that Ms M hasnt applied to any other lender for a mortgage,  and has 
only recently applied  to a charity  for support with her move,  even though her 
application to Lloyds was refused in 2017. So I cant hold Lloyds wholly responsible  
for the delay, or any consequential loss that might  have arisen from it. Thats  
because Ive not seen evidence of loss, and it doesnt seem to me that Ms M has 
explored other options, or not done  so until recently, to mitigate any losses. 
And its also fair to say that Lloyds didnt  assess Ms Ms application  and while  Ive 
said it looks based on her income alone that its likely a mortgage  would have  been  
affordable, no assessment of her expenditure, or of the property she would  have 
bought, has been carried out. So its far from guaranteed that she would have got the 
mortgage even  if her application  had been  assessed  fairly. I dont therefore think it 
would be right to direct  Lloyds to grant  Ms M a mortgage.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Ms M agreed  with my decision,  but didnt think my proposed award was enough. She said 
shed lost the opportunity to get the mortgage  she needed. House prices had risen more  
quickly in the area she wanted to move to than in the area she wanted  to move from, so she 
might not be able to afford to move  any more. In fact, her current  property has gone down in 
value slightly. As a benefit recipient  she cant build  up savings, so she uses her excess 
income to buy things  which shows she could have  afforded the mortgage.  And by not 
using those funds  towards  a property (which would rise in value over time), shes lost out. 
Ref: DRN42282858Shes recently been able to take out finance  to buy a sofa  which shows some firms will 
lend to customers in receipt of benefits.  
Ms M said she had looked for mortgages  elsewhere.  But all shed been able to find were 
specialist schemes aimed specifically  at borrowers  with disabilities  which were interest 
only, and more expensive  than standard mortgages, so she didnt think  them right for her. 
She also explained her reasons for wanting to move.
Lloyds said that it had previously given incorrect information to both Ms M and to us about its 
lending policy. In fact, there was no requirement  for there to be earned income alongside a 
benefits award. It was  and always had been   prepared to consider an application from a 
customer whose income came solely from benefits, if it was affordable.  It apologised for the 
previous incorrect information we had been  given.
However, Lloyds confirmed that it would only consider 60% of income from a disability 
benefits award. It said it had considered information published by a disability charity on the 
additional costs  of living with a disability.  It believed that it had taken a proportionate 
approach. Lloyds also said that while this was its standard approach, had an application 
been made and failed  on affordability,  it would have been referred  to an underwriter for 
manual consideration to see if there were specific circumstances  justifying a different 
approach. The underwriter would consider whether there was evidence  to show  that costs  
were different in the individual case.  But it said there  was no guarantee an application would 
have been successful.
Lloyds said that since Ms M applied,  it has now changed  its policy.  While it will still only 
consider 60% of PIP, it will consider ESA in full. Thats because  PIP is designed to assist 
with expenses, whereas ESA is income  replacement. 
Lloyds said that Ms M should have been able to make an application which should have 
been considered.  It said it was human  error on the part of bank staff that she was turned 
away without an application  being made. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Lloyds said that it had previously given  Ms M  and us  incorrect  information about its 
lending policy. It says that, in fact, it will consider benefits income on its own,  rather  than as 
a supplement to earned income.  It apologises for giving us incorrect  information before.
Im surprised by this. As I said in my provisional  decision, its not just Lloyds complaint 
handler  making  a mistake  who told us this. I confirmed it from the policy  documents  
themselves, which  Lloyds gave to us. 
But Lloyds does  confirm,  as I said in my provisional decision, that it will only accept 60% of 
PIP. I explained  in my provisional decision why I didnt think it was fair that Ms M wasnt  
given the chance for her own income  and expenditure to be assessed   rather than an 
assumption made. And while I note that Lloyds says an underwriter  can make a manual 
assessment of whether to depart from the policy on appeal, Ms Ms application wasnt  
allowed to reach  that stage.
Ref: DRN42282859In any case, whatever the actual policy was, my concern in this complaint is whether or not 
Ms Ms attempt to apply  for a mortgage  was fairly handled. And I dont think  it was. Ms M 
was told that she wouldnt be able to get a mortgage, and was deterred from ever making an 
application. I dont  think that was fair  and whether  that failure  was because policy was 
followed, or because  human error was made  it meant that Ms M was left feeling  that she 
had been treated unfairly because of her disability; that it was her disability, rather than her 
finances  the source, not the amount, of her income  which was a barrier to her 
application.
Im therefore  satisfied, for those reasons and the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, 
that this complaint should be upheld.
Ive considered again what Ms M has said about  how the complaint should be put right.  
While I accept that house prices are likely  to have risen  and may possibly not have risen  
by the same amount in the area she lives in and the area she wanted to move to  Im not 
persuaded that my proposed award should be increased. Even if her application had been 
considered fairly, its far from clear that it would have been granted. So I cant award  her 
compensation on the basis that it would have been.  But if what Ms M has said about her 
finances is correct  she may well be able to afford a fresh application now.  
I dont therefore  think that I can fairly say that Ms M was caused financial loss because she 
wasnt given the chance to have  her application considered.  But Im satisfied that the refusal 
to consider Ms Ms application  and the circumstances of the refusal  would have caused 
her distress.  And I still think £750  is fair compensation  in all the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Lloyds 
Bank PLC to
Consider any further  mortgage  application Ms M makes by means of manual 
assessment by an underwriter, setting aside the policies on income from benefits and 
considering Ms Ms actual income and actual expenditure in full; and
Pay Ms M £750 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2021.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4228285