K820x#14complaint
Miss L says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss L bought the policy at a meeting in 1999  at the same time as taking  a credit card. She 
was employed at the time as a customer service supervisor and had been there at least  one 
year. From what shes  told us, its likely she was entitled to no more  than statutory pay for 
sickness and redundancy. Shes told us she didnt have any other  means, like savings, with 
which to pay her card if she couldnt work. Miss L was in good health at the time of the sale,  
from what shes told us, and hadnt had any health  issues - although shes told us of health 
issues she suffered later,  a few years  after the sale.
The PPI policy provided cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment, and had life cover,  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful disability or unemployment claim, it 
offered to pay 5% of Miss Ls card balance each month for 11 months - and clear  her 
outstanding balance if the claim lasted  12 months.  Lloyds has told us the policy at the time 
cost no more than 79p per £100  of the monthly  outstanding balance. The premium had to 
still be paid during a successful  claim  and attracted interest. The life cover  would, subject  to 
its terms, clear  the account  balance  on death.
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show the credit card account closed in 2001.
Miss L has told us she took the card for non-essential spending. Her representative has 
made lengthy and substantial  representations  on her behalf.  Ill not restate them all here,  but 
I have read and considered them all carefully.  In summary, Miss Ls representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Miss L wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Miss Ls representative believes there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told Miss L about  
the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss L and the impact they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;  and
The information Miss L received was misleading.  These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Miss L disagreed with the adjudicators 
Ref: DRN40378852opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ls. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ls complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement concluded in 2001.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions in 
s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement  in Plevin  about  s.140 of 
that Act and the rules  and guidance  made by the FCA about  the handling of complaints  
about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Miss Ls case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Ref: DRN40378853Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Miss Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Miss L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Miss L sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss L, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent she suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss L and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Miss Ls complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Miss L know  she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Miss L has said she had no interest in PPI and it was just included  as part of the package 
with her card. But the credit card application form, under the heading Optional features, 
had boxes to tick to say either Yes or No to the cover. On Miss Ls form, which she signed  
to take the card, the Yes box is ticked - and I think she wouldve known the No box could  
be ticked instead if she didnt want the cover. So, taking everything into account, I think  its 
more likely Miss L knew the PPI was optional and agreed to take it without undue  pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Ref: DRN40378854If Lloyds gave advice,  it had to do more. Lloyds  says it gave advice. Miss L says it didnt  
although shes also said she cant recall  how the PPI was sold.  With all this in mind, I think  
its fair to proceed on the basis that Lloyds  likely  gave advice. This means Lloyds had to 
advise Miss L with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was appropriate  
or suitable given  her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the PPI policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Miss L. Miss L cant remember much about the sale and theres no 
record of what the adviser  discussed in relation to the policy  - this is unsurprising  in respect 
of a sale during  a meeting. The adviser had some limited information about Miss Ls financial 
circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to establish 
whether Miss L would have been  caught  by the significant exclusions and limitations which  
might have meant the policy  did not fully meet her needs. For example, theres nothing to 
suggest Lloyds  considered whether Miss L had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Miss L given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss L, I do think its more likely than not the policy  was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Miss L met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Miss L had a need for the policy  it seems likely her finances,  and ability to continue  to 
meet her card payments,  wouldve  been  put under  strain were she not working for an 
extended period   even allowing for the statutory benefits she wouldve been entitled to.
-Although Miss L says she was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss L. There  was 
nothing about  her employment  or occupation which wouldve made it difficult for her to 
claim. And from what shes told us, she didnt  have any existing  health  issues  at the time 
of the sale that couldve  affected  her ability to claim. There  were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim for 
disability or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Miss Ls circumstances 
and the fact the policy could have cleared her outstanding card balance.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Miss L sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Ref: DRN40378855Im satisfied its more likely than not Miss L was given a very broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that it would protect her card payments in the event she 
were unable to work through disability  or unemployment).  Ive reached this conclusion  
because I think it unlikely  Miss L wouldve taken the policy without any sense  of what  it was. 
Also, I think she wouldve been told these things   at the very least   during the discussion 
with the adviser.  Her card application form also said the PPI was so you can continue to 
meet your minimum  credit  card payments even if you cant work  due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment - which wouldve given her some idea of what  the policy was for. 
Im also satisfied Miss L wouldve realised the policy wasnt free and its likely she wouldve 
had some understanding of how much the policy cost before agreeing  to take it.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Miss L 
agreed to take the policy. Even  if that information  were in a leaflet or policy summary Miss L 
might have been given, I think it more  likely  than not she based her decision on the things 
she was told, rather  than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss L, Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Miss L. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Miss L all the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ls representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ls. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Miss Ls representative considers to be poor value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Miss L about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have gone further and explained 
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think it unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer  having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Miss L has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either.
Ref: DRN40378856what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Miss L? To what extent did Miss  L 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Miss L. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss L 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss L 
would have still taken  the policy, had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Miss L, Ive found the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that whether  or not Miss L has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Miss L wouldve acted  differently or whether she wouldve taken the policy  in any event.
Miss L says she wouldnt have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Miss L had some interest in taking payment protection 
insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds offered  the PPI or advised her there was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her credit card payments in the event she were 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, she concluded she wanted  
that product.  But she made that decision based  on incomplete information,  meaning what 
she thought she was getting  is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Ls circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Miss L ought reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance  
(and I note her application form referred  to cover  for the minimum card payments). But I 
accept Lloyds didnt  make clear the on-going cost information. So while  Miss L didnt  know 
some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to 
what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to 
take the policy on and found  acceptable.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss L thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded disability occurring within 12 months of the start date relating to 
health issues Miss L knew or shouldve known about at the start or for which  shed seen 
or arranged to see a medical practitioner in the twelve  months before the start;
Ref: DRN40378857The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Miss L 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Miss L be unable to do her own 
work or any work  which in the insurers  view she was or might  reasonably  become  
qualified for in view of her education,  training and ability.
I do accept theres a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Miss L pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss L from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss L didnt have any existing 
health issues and was in permanent employment. So, I think she still had some good 
reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  it unlikely Miss L wouldve 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Miss L had known she could only claim for disability if she were  not only unable to do her 
own job but also unable  to do any job which in the insurers view she was or might become 
qualified for in view of her education, training and ability, it might have played  into her 
thinking about what to do. And I accept  it may have given her pause for thought  although 
given Miss Ls circumstances and the limited other means she had to make her payments if 
she wasnt working, on balance I think she wouldve still been interested in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Miss L would still have  taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what she thought  she 
was getting and, aside from statutory benefits,  she didnt have any means of meeting  her 
card payments if she were  unable to work due to accident, sickness or redundancy. And, in 
those circumstances,  I consider it more  likely  than not that she wouldve taken the policy  in 
any event.
Miss Ls representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
Ref: DRN40378858were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss L would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss L 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she wouldve been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Miss L believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss L in the position she would have  been  in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken the policy,  Im satisfied 
that, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not she would still have taken the PPI had 
she been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy she was buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude 
Lloyds should  pay Miss L compensation, as that would put her in a better  position  than she 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware Miss L thinks  Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court  might  conclude some of Lloyds 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Lloyds failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Miss L, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ls representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss L and about  the remedy 
a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss L in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 December  2020.
Ref: DRN40378859Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4037885