K820x#14complaint
Miss Cs complaint is that American Express Services  Europe  Limited  (AMEX) hasnt offered 
her any compensation  for the level of commission and profit share  it received from her 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C has brought  a complaint  about  the mis-sale  of the policy to this service which has 
been dealt with separately. So, to be clear,  in this decision Ive only considered the 
complaint about  the commission and profit share  AMEX got because of the PPI.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
AMEX has said that the level of commission  and profit share  it received  for Miss Cs PPI 
policy was under 50%. So it says there  wasnt an unfair relationship and it doesnt need to 
refund anything Miss C paid for the PPI.
Having looked  at this, I agree. AMEX doesnt  have to refund Miss C anything  as the level 
of commission and profit share it received was under 50%.  
Overall, I am satisfied AMEX has applied  the rules it must follow  correctly.  And while  Ive 
thought about whether theres  anything about  Miss Cs particular complaint and 
circumstances that means AMEX  should do something different, I dont think there is. So 
AMEX doesnt  need  to do anything further in Miss Cs case.
Ref: DRN48971332my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4897133