K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) policies. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs D bought the policies in 1998  and 2006,  sometime after taking out her original 
mortgage. Due to the time that has passed,  its not clear how Mrs D applied for the PPI 
policies. Contrary to what our adjudicator has said,  I havent  seen  any evidence of a sale in 
1995.
The policies provided cover for Mrs D for accident,  sickness, and unemployment   subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  an amount  to cover Mrs Ds mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. Initially  the policy cost £6 a month, increasing to 
£25.75 a month in 2006 when Mrs D increased her level of cover. 
At the time of the sales, Mrs D was employed as a teacher. She has told us she was entitled 
to at least six months full sick pay, death  in service benefit and redundancy pay. Mrs D has 
said she was in good health  at the time of the sales. 
At the time of the second sale in 2006,  Mrs D has said that she had about  £500 in savings. 
Lloyds has sent us information to show that the mortgage account  closed in February 2014. 
Mrs Ds representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf. 
However, for ease  of reference, I will refer to its representations as being  Mrs Ds from now 
on.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs D says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs D wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs D believes there 
to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mrs D about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs D and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
Ref: DRN42812012The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs D received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
I wrote  a provisional decision in January 2021  in which I set out why I was not minded to 
uphold Mrs Ds complaint.  I invited both parties  to provide any further  submissions they may 
wish to make before  I reached a final decision.  Mrs Ds representative confirmed that they 
had nothing further to add.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds complaint.
The first sale took place in 1998 before the General Insurance  Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this part of the complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance 
(PERG). 
The second  sale took place in 2006  after the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005.  So the FSAs 
and the FCAs  overarching principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB) are 
applicable to this part of the complaint.
The credit agreement started in 1990  and ended in 2014.
That means the unfair relationship provisions  set out at s140A and B of the Consumer Credit 
Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 about s140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in the light of the Plevin judgment, also apply. I will come back  to this later on.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time of the first sale, which I am 
satisfied are applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014]  UKSC 61
Ref: DRN42812013circumstances of this complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General 
Insurance Business Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of 
Insurance Companies) other than Registered  Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ds case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
With regard to the second sale in 2006,  its also relevant to note that there have for some 
time been codes  governing the sale of insurance products such as PPI. There  is much in 
common between the present  statutory regulatory regime  and the non-statutory provisions 
that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position  at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer applied as specific  requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider that they still represent a helpful  guide to good industry practice. 
As a result its appropriate  for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB 
rules and the other relevant  considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Ref: DRN42812014Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This first sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering that part Mrs Ds complaint. However, Lloyds was required to 
fully take into account  the evidential provisions in DISP App 3 when considering  Mrs Ds 
complaint about  the second  sale in 2006.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mrs D with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint about  the alleged  
mis-sale in favour of Mrs D, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what extent  
Mrs D suffered loss or damage  and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
-If I conclude Mrs D has not suffered  loss or damage and I make no award for the 
alleged mis-sale, I must  then go on to consider whether, in all the circumstances (and 
taking into account sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer  Credit Act, the 
Supreme Courts decision in Plevin , and the FCAs guidance at DISP  App 3), Lloyds  
should have disclosed  the commission it received - and if it didnt, what would be fair 
compensation in all the circumstances.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs D and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Ds alleged  mis-sale complaint. I have also 
considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission and Ive decided  that Lloyds should  
have disclosed the commission it received.  My findings are set out below. 
did Mrs D know she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policies were optional. 
Mrs D took out her mortgage  in 1990  and did not buy PPI at that time.  She bought the first 
policy in 1998  (which went live in 1999) to cover a further advance  that she was taking out. 
She bought  the second policy in 2006  after Lloyds wrote to her to tell her that the original 
mortgage was not covered by PPI. As the original mortgage had already been running  for 
some time, Im not persuaded that Mrs D would have thought she had to agree to PPI as a 
condition of the borrowing.
Ref: DRN42812015Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs D knew the policies were  
optional and she agreed to take them out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Mrs D agree that advice was provided during  these sales.  Lloyds doesnt 
know this for certain, but in order to be fair to Mrs D it has treated these as advised  sales 
that took place  during meetings in branch.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mrs D with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether  
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs D. It seems  Mrs D cant remember  clearly what  happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited  information about Mrs 
Ds financial  circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show the adviser took steps 
to establish whether Mrs D would  have been  caught  by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds considered whether Mrs D had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs D given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs D, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs D met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mrs D had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Ds ability  to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the redundancy benefits 
and sick pay she says she would  have been entitled to.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs D. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Ds employment  or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  And she hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect her ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mrs D be disabled  or unemployed 
for 60 days before she could  make a claim and the fact the policy would  only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still provided 
valuable cover given:
Ref: DRN42812016Mrs Ds circumstances, including her employers  sickness  and redundancy 
provisions (which  she might expect to provide an income during the policys 
60-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to her home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mrs D be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against her house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mrs D sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs D was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs D would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs D agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs D Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Lloyds  gave Mrs D all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs D has raised a number  of general points 
with regard to the requirements on a business when  providing information in PPI sales.  It 
suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints, like hers. Ive considered these  carefully 
and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs D considers to be poor value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs D about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ds views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in insurance law 
imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract to disclose material facts and not to make  
Ref: DRN42812017material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain  what a court would say  I think  its 
unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose the claims ratio 
information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the way Mrs D 
[has/have] suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes  and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mrs D? To what extent did Mrs D 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold these policies  to Mrs D. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs D 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs D 
would have still taken  out the policies, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policies it recommended were suitable for Mrs D, I have found that the policies  were  
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs D has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mrs D would have acted  differently, or whether she would have taken out the policies in any 
event.
Mrs D says she wouldnt have taken them out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs D had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ds circumstances at the 
time of the sales that the policies were not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs D knew  she would have to pay something 
for the policies, it doesnt appear  Lloyds  told her the exact premium at the point Mrs D 
applied for the policies.  Having said that, it seems  likely Mrs D would have been  told the cost 
before the policies  started and she paid for the policies  for a number of years, so if the costs 
were significantly  at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible she might 
have raised that with Lloyds at the time,  or reconsidered her decision.
Ref: DRN42812018Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs D would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mrs D would get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs Ds expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
mortgage payment)  was significantly different to what the policy actually did  if anything,  it 
is more likely than not that the policy actually paid more in the event of a claim than she 
would have expected as there was an additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs D thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs D knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs D 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs D be unable  to 
do her own job, or a similar  job which  her experience, education or training 
reasonable qualified her to do;
The policy did not pay out for the first 60 days of any period of disability or 
unemployment;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs D pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs D from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs D was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mrs D wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions   she didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs D would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mrs D had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any similar occupation which in the insurers view she might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if she was unable (through disability) to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Ref: DRN42812019Lloyds may not have  told Mrs D that any claim she made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mrs D would have received full sick pay for, and her 
redundancy entitlement was also likely to be significantly  less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs D would still have thought  a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  she be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Mrs Ds sick pay or redundancy money for other  use.
Lloyds may not have  told Mrs D that the first 60 days of any period of disability or 
unemployment would not be covered. This may also have differed from what  she expected 
and might have hoped for. But Mrs D had employer benefits to cover  her during this initial 
period. In those  circumstances, I consider  it likely that Mrs D would still have thought  that a 
policy that covered  her over the longer  12-month term would have been of benefit  to her. 
Mrs D has said that she had a claim turned down because  she wasnt out of work long 
enough. However, Lloyds has told us that Mrs D was successful  with a second claim that 
paid out for disability  in 2009/10.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs D would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if she was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs D 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs D says the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make it clear  that, 
where a significant  failing is identified,  it should be presumed the consumer wouldnt have 
taken out PPI, unless  there is evidence to outweigh the presumption.  They  say we should 
follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs D would  not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs D 
found herself in as a result of the sales was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN428120110Mrs D believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs D in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policies, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mrs D compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs D thinks Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mrs D, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1998 and 2006 when  providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs D says a court might take if it were to find Lloyds 
negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mrs D and about the remedy a court  might award 
if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  faith.  But this 
doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs D in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
So I do not uphold  the mis-sale element of Mrs Ds complaint.
However, having considered the overall mis-sale, I must now go on to consider whether the 
non-disclosure of commission  resulted  in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what compensation  it would be fair to award to Mrs D to 
remedy that unfairness.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive considered the effect of section  140A  and B of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court decision  in Plevin v Paragon and the FCAs rules and guidance for businesses about 
handling PPI complaints  set out at DISP App 3 (as I referred to earlier)  in the light of that 
case.
Section 140A (1) and (2) of the Consumer Credit Act states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising  out of the 
Ref: DRN428120111agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair  to the debtor  
because of one or more  of the following:
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either before or 
after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement) .
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the creditor  and 
matters relating to the debtor).
Mrs D has made a number of representations  about the impact of the Plevin judgment and 
sections 140A and 140B  of the Consumer Credit Act on his complaint. In summary, Mrs D 
said that:
-Lloyds failed to tell her about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio (the proportion of the premiums paid by policyholders used to pay 
claims), and the restrictions and exclusions on cover; and
-If Lloyds had told her about those  things, she would not have taken out the policy, so 
she should get back all the money  she paid by way of premium for the policy.
Ive considered those  representations carefully.  In doing so, Im mindful  of the following:
-When selling insurance,  the relevant insurance  codes  did not specifically require 
Lloyds to tell Mrs D about commission or about  the claims ratio (nor, for reasons Ive 
already explained, did the duty of utmost  good faith require that).  As the FCA said 
when introducing its rules and guidance  to businesses for the handling of PPI 
complaints in the light of the Plevin  judgment, the failure  to disclose commission  was 
not in breach of the industry codes and would  not  in and of itself  have been a 
breach of FCAs Principles for Businesses. Those Principles  include a requirement 
on businesses to pay due regard to the interests  of its customers and treat them  
fairly (albeit as I set out earlier the Principles are not relevant in this case.)
-Where a court determines under section 140A that the relationship between the 
creditor and the debtor  arising out of a credit  agreement (or the agreement taken with 
any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of (among other things) 
anything done,  or not done, by or on behalf of the creditor,  the court  has a range of 
powers available to it under section 140B. Those powers include altering the terms of 
the credit  agreement or any related  agreement,  requiring the creditor  to repay  sums 
paid by the debtor, and to reduce  or discharge any sums  payable.
-The Supreme  Court considered whether the non-disclosure of high commission  
levels might  produce  an unfair  relationship in the case  of Plevin. In that case,  the 
Supreme Court  concluded that that the non-disclosure of commission  could lead to 
an unfair relationship.
-Following the Plevin judgment (and the uncertainty  that it created), the FCA issued 
rules and guidance to businesses for the handling of PPI complaints that included a 
Ref: DRN428120112complaint about  undisclosed commission. That guidance (which is contained in DISP 
App 3) came into force in August  2017 and was preceded by a policy  statement 
(PS17/03, issued in March 2017) and two consultation papers (CP15/39  and 
CP16/20). The respondents to those consultations included consumer groups, 
businesses, claims management companies  and trade associations, and the final 
rules and guidance took account of their views.
-In PS 17/03, the FCA said that in publishing  this guidance for firms, it had used [its] 
regulatory judgement to create  a framework  that [it] believe[s]  will reduce uncertainty  
and enable firms to take a fair and consistent  approach to handling  PPI complaints. 
This will help ensure the best outcomes for consumers  at the earliest  stage in the 
complaints process [Page 6 para 1.8]
-In broad terms, the FCAs guidance and rules  for businesses  handling PPI 
complaints require businesses to consider complaints about PPI using  a two-step 
approach as set out in DISP App 3. Broadly speaking, at step 1, the firm should first 
consider whether the businesss conduct of the sale failed to comply with FCAs 
rules or legal requirements.  Where failings are identified,  the business  should 
determine the way the consumer would have acted if the breach  or failing had not 
occurred (i.e. whether  or not the consumer  would  have  bought the policy) and then 
determine appropriate redress - if any. It is at this step, for instance, where the 
presumption in DISP  App 3.6.2E  which I have  already addressed  above   may 
apply.
-Where the business concludes   as Lloyds did in this complaint  that the consumer  
would have bought PPI, it must then go on to assess, at step 2, whether any failure 
to disclose commission and profit share  gave rise to an unfair relationship  under 
section 140A, in which case the business  should  go on to determine the appropriate 
remedy - if any.
-As a starting point,  the FCAs rules  and guidance require businesses to presume  that 
the failure to disclose  commission  gave rise to an unfair relationship where  the 
business expected commission and profit share to be more  than 50% of the cost of 
the policy (the FCA referred to this as the tipping point in its consultations  and 
policy statement). Usually, in those  circumstances, the FCAs rules and guidance 
require businesses to refund the amounts paid by the consumer  in commission  and 
profit share above 50% of the policys cost,  plus interest. While  this presumption of 
an unfair relationship  is rebuttable, I note that Lloyds has not sought to rebut  it in Mrs 
Ds case. In fact, Lloyds  made  an offer to Mrs D in 2018,  calculated in line with the 
FCAs guidance.
Was there an unfair relationship?
Given that Lloyds  didnt tell Mrs D about  the high levels  of commission and profit share  paid 
in this case, I think its likely a court would determine that the relationship  between  Lloyds 
and Mrs D was unfair  under section 140A. As Ive mentioned above, the FCAs rules require 
Lloyds to determine appropriate  redress in those circumstances, and I have had regard to 
those rules below in deciding what compensation it would be fair to award Mrs D in order to 
remedy that unfairness. 
With respect to the claims ratio, I cant say with any degree of certainty  whether a court  
would conclude that Lloydss failure  to disclose information about the claims ratio also meant 
there was an unfair relationship. But in some  respects, commission  and the claims ratio are 
Ref: DRN428120113two sides of the same coin  the fact that a relatively small amount of the premiums  is 
required to pay claims is what permits the high commission and profit  share payments.  
And I accept   although I cant be sure  theres a possibility that a court might take a similar 
view about the claims  ratio when considering a claim  under section 140A. But since  Ive 
already found  that its likely a court would say that Lloyds should have told Mrs D about  
commission, and the claims ratio involves a similar concept, I dont think  the failure to 
disclose the claims ratio as a separate matter affects my overall conclusion about whats fair 
in this case.
So, taking into account:
-the likelihood (in my view) that a court  would  determine the relationship  between  
Lloyds and Mrs D was unfair under section 140A because  it didnt tell her about the 
high levels of commission and profit  share paid in this case; and
-the regulators complaint handling  guidance  for businesses, 
I dont think Lloyds acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings  with Mrs D insofar  as it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share paid out of the premiums in this case. 
Redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.  
Ive thought carefully about whether fair compensation means Mrs D should get a full refund 
of the premiums she paid to put her in the position  she would have been in if she hadnt 
taken the policy out, or a full refund of the commission  and profit share Lloyds received, or a 
refund of the commission paid above a certain point  for example by taking the approach 
set out in the FCAs rules and guidance (as has already been offered by Lloyds).
As Ive mentioned  above, Mrs D says that she should get a full refund of all the PPI 
premiums she has paid.  In summary, Mrs D says that the high level of commission (and/or  
the low claims  ratio)   together with the policys limitations and exclusions  meant  that the 
PPI policies generally represented  poor value for money for her. I should  therefore find that 
Mrs D would not have  purchased the policies had she known of the level of commission  
and accordingly,  she should receive  a refund of all the PPI premiums she paid.  
I have thought carefully about these representations  and am mindful  of Lord Sumptions  
observation in Plevin (at paragraph 18 of his judgment) where he said:
Any reasonable  person in [Mrs Plevins] position  who was told that more than two thirds  of 
the premium was going to intermediaries,  would  be bound to question whether the insurance 
represented value  for money, and whether it was a sensible  transaction to enter into. The 
fact that she was left in ignorance in my opinion made the relationship unfair.  
However, I note that the Supreme Court made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case (Mrs Susan Plevin) would (or would not) have purchased  the PPI 
policy had the commission  been disclosed to her at the time of her purchase. The Supreme 
Court simply did not address the question of causation. I do not therefore consider that the 
Plevin judgment necessarily drives  me to the conclusion that Mrs D suggests it does  i.e. 
that she necessarily would not have purchased the policy had the level of commission been 
disclosed to her at the time.
Ref: DRN428120114I have also borne in mind  that the overarching question for the court would be what  steps are 
required to remedy the unfairness, and that, under  section 140B, the court would have a 
wide range  of powers available to it in order to do so under the lending  relationship  in 
question. It does not, for instance,  follow that because Lloyds did not disclose the high level 
of commission to Mrs D, the court would necessarily order  Lloyds to return all the premiums 
Mrs D paid for the policy. Nor does it follow that the court would  necessarily find that Mrs D 
would not have purchased the policy but for Lloydss  failure to disclose the high commission. 
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mrs 
D in order to remedy the unfairness  arising  from the fact Lloyds  did not disclose the high 
level of commission to her before she purchased  the policy.
The FCAs  guidance to firms following the Plevin  judgment
In considering what would represent  fair compensation for Mrs D, I have,  as I stated earlier,  
had regard to the FCAs guidance  to firms for handling PPI complaints involving a complaint  
about undisclosed commission. I think the FCAs guidance is an important consideration for 
me to take into account, and I will now explain  how I think  the FCAs guidance affects my 
decision on this issue.  
As I explained above, the FCA consulted extensively between 2015 and 2017 on the 
question of how firms should handle PPI complaints involving a complaint  about undisclosed 
commission in the light of the Plevin judgment. In the exercise  of its regulatory judgment,  the 
FCA established the two-step approach  I summarised above. According to the FCA, the 
purpose of this approach was to allow firms to take a fair and consistent approach to 
handling PPI complaints  involving undisclosed commission. 
The FCA explained why it decided to exercise its regulatory judgment  in the way it did in 
paragraphs 4.68  4.70 of PS17/3.  These paragraphs state as follows:
The two step approach 
The approach to assessing merits  
4.68 Some responses  from industry, and from CMCs and consumer bodies, maintained their 
broad support for our proposed structuring  of the new rules  and guidance  concerning Plevin 
as a separate second step within our existing PPI complaint handling  rules and guidance, 
seeing it as a sensible and proportionate approach. 
4.69 However, some  industry respondents maintained and amplified their concerns about  
our view (at paragraph 5.69 of CP15/39)  that, in some marginal cases, a firm may conclude  
at Step 2 that not disclosing  commission over 50% was the straw that broke the back  of the 
sale as a whole, and that, overall, the customer would not have bought the PPI if given 
better information, including about the commission, at point of sale. These  responses argue 
that our view: 
inappropriately blurs the lines between two very different sets of circumstances
is confusing and contradictory from the consumers perspective
will result in uncertainty and disorderliness, as CMCs will use it to try to get any Step 
2 uphold  upgraded to a Step 1 uphold, increasing the length and complexity of 
handling for firms and delaying redress to consumers
Ref: DRN428120115imposes disproportionate  costs on firms  and the Financial Ombudsman Service  who 
will need  to operationalise such hybrid  assessments as standard  in their processes 
despite the small number, we say, whose outcomes will change  in practice 
4.70 Conversely, some  responses from consumer  bodies  and CMCs maintained  and 
amplified their previous  concerns that we are artificially and wrongly separating  the issues at 
Step 1 and Step 2, when these should be considered together. Specifically, they said that: 
We had mis-understood the relevant case law and disregarded relevant 
considerations from the Plevin judgment, and ignored the findings  of the Competition  
Commission that the non-disclosure of commission was a central  plank of the sales 
strategy employed by most lenders.
The question of unfairness under s.140A is not a narrow  test of commission.  Instead, 
it is a wide one in the round,  so any sales failings  at Step 1, or other issues of 
unfairness or inequalities of knowledge  such as poor value from a low claims ratio,  
should also be considered at Step 2, in particular by the Financial Ombudsman  
Service, which has to consider all the circumstances anyway, not just s.140A. 
Conversely, Plevin says failure to disclose commission is unfair  which  presumably 
also makes  it a breach of FCA principles 6 and 7  and that the customer did need to 
be told about poor value, and it explicitly cites unfairness arising from undisclosed 
poor value. So it is wrong  for our proposed structure to imply (and Financial 
Ombudsman Service decisions to assert) that the non-disclosure of high commission  
and poor value was not relevant for causation and potential mis-selling or 
assessment at Step 1. Our proposed approach  paid lip service  to this, allowing that 
undisclosed commission may be the straw that broke the back of the sale as a 
whole, but said these  are marginal cases that will be few and far between   
whereas in reality,  they are the norm.
As proposed, Step 2 assumes Step 1 has been fairly carried out, but we cannot 
reasonably assume  that, given  the continued  poor complaint handling by firms. And 
the approach itself incentivises lenders not to concede a mis-sale,  and to instead 
redress more cheaply at Step 2. 
Our response
We have carefully  considered this feedback. However,  we see no reason to change our 
previous views or position.
Plevin deals with the specific question of whether an unfair relationship between lender and 
borrower was created by undisclosed high commission on the PPI. This question  is different 
from, and narrower than, the principal question behind our existing rules and guidance for 
firms, which  is: did the conduct of the firm that sold the PPI fall so short, at point of sale,  of 
what we would expect  under our Principles and ICOB(S) rules,  that it made the sale 
substantially flawed?  
We still believe the two-step approach reflects this difference appropriately and fairly for 
complainants and firms.  An alternative approach which  merged considerations about  
Ref: DRN428120116undisclosed commission  into the existing rules  and guidance about  mis-selling to create a 
single test would not be appropriate because:  
We do not consider the non-disclosure of commission in PPI sales to have been a 
breach of our ICOB(S) rules,  and it is unlikely  in and of itself to have been  in breach 
of our Principles,  whereas we do consider the various  sales failings set out in the 
existing rules and guidance to be so.
It would  lead us, and firms, into difficult considerations  of whether a consumer would 
still have bought  the PPI if they had been  told about the level of commission. This 
difficulty is compounded by the fact that complaints about PPI increasingly involve 
older, pre-2005  sales,  of which some will be eligible to be considered at Step 2.
Additionally, if we were to force  firms  to make these assessments  it would result in 
complaint outcomes  which would  be both arbitrary  and inappropriately all or nothing. 
It could give too little  nothing  to many  consumers  who had suffered an unfair 
relationship, and too much  full return of premium and interest  to many consumers 
who had benefitted from the PPI cover. (See paragraphs 4.87-4.105 below for further 
discussion of our approach to redress.) 
We would, anyway, have to leave scope for a PPI complaint where undisclosed  
commission may be relevant to be assessed  by a lender  that did not sell the PPI and 
could not assess  if it was mis-sold under  our existing rules..
This extract makes it clear that the FCA specifically considered  representations  from 
consumer bodies  and claims management companies which are very similar to the 
representations which Mrs D is now making   i.e. that the existence of an undisclosed high 
level of commission means that I should find that Mrs D would not have purchased  the 
policies had she known  about the level of commission at the time she bought them.
However, I note that, in the exercise of its regulatory judgment,  the FCA decided that it 
would not be appropriate to merge considerations about undisclosed commission into the 
existing rules and guidance about mis-selling. This is why it created the two-step approach  
for firms handling PPI complaints summarised above. And as part of that two-step  approach, 
the FCA said that impact  of the undisclosed commission  and the compensation required to 
remedy the unfairness caused by that undisclosed  commission  should generally be 
considered at step 2. 
Turning now to consider  what  the FCAs guidance says about  how firms should calculate fair 
compensation to remedy the unfairness caused by undisclosed commission at step 2, I am 
mindful that the FCAs guidance on this issue was also the product of extensive  consultation  
and deliberation. The following extract from para 4.104 of PS17/3  (omitting the footnotes)  
explains the FCAs position:
Concerning the core logic of our proposed approach to redress, we note [] the 
courts might take a variety  of approaches to redress on individual  cases. However, 
we remain of the view that our approach,  centred  on the return of that portion of 
undisclosed commission plus profit share that exceeded  the tipping point, is fair and 
appropriate. As we have  explained  (see our response under paragraph  3.27 above), 
we are exercising  our regulatory  judgement  about appropriate assessment and, 
where appropriate, redress of relevant PPI complaints in light of s.140A- B, taking 
account of Plevin. In doing so, we are seeking  to ensure fair and consistent complaint 
Ref: DRN428120117handling. We consider our approach to redress to be a reasonable starting 
presumption, which fits well with the central importance Lord Sumption gave to the 
notion of a tipping point.  
For these reasons, although  it was the remedy in Plevin ordered by the Manchester  
County Court, we do not agree that our general  approach to redress should be the 
return of all the commission that was not disclosed. Also,  the consumer,  who,  as 
would generally  have been established at Step 1, was not mis-sold, had a need for 
the protection offered  by the policy and enjoyed the benefit  of that protection  before 
complaining. So it is fair and reasonable for the lender to keep some of the 
commission from the policys distribution (i.e. the portion under the tipping point).
 
Nor do we agree that our approach to redress should  be the return  of all the 
premium(s) paid by the consumer. Adopting  this approach would dissolve any 
meaningful distinction between  a mis-sale and an unfair relationship  under  s.140A, 
and thus between our existing Step 1 and proposed  Step 2. In our view, it would 
(even more than the return  of all commission) give excessive redress to the 
consumer who had enjoyed the benefit of that protection  before complaining. We 
consider it is fair and reasonable for the consumer to have still paid for the 
underwriting of the policy  and for some of the commission  from the policys  
distribution (i.e. the portion  under  the tipping  point).
 
We do not agree that our approach to redress at Step 2 inconsistently evokes 
hypothetical scenarios  or, in general  or for historic interest specifically,  implies  any 
assumption that the customer would have  searched for or bought  an alternative  PPI 
policy that was cheaper by the amount of the excess  commission over the tipping 
point. So we do not need to take into account whether such  alternative cheaper PPI 
policies existed or were  available to the consumer.  
Rather, as stated above, our approach simply seeks to redress  the customer  for that 
element of undisclosed  excess commission  and profit share which created the unfair 
relationship under s.140A. It is in that specific sense, of our approach  not second 
guessing what  the consumer would have done had they been told of the commission,  
that we meant that our approach was different from the but for logic at Step 1. We 
did not mean that our overall approach to redress had no element of restoring the 
consumers financial position to what  it would  have been without the undisclosed 
excess commission.
 
Lastly, we note that our approach  to redress has to be viewed in the round, as a 
package. Responses from CMCs  and consumer bodies have focused on aspects 
which they believe depart  from Plevin and are ungenerous to complainants,  such  as 
the presumptive  50% tipping point and redress based on the excess over it. 
Responses from industry have focused on aspects which they believe depart from . 
So we consider that, overall, our approach is balanced and will give redress,  in 
aggregate and to individuals, that is fair and proportionate in light of the detriment 
identified and described by the Supreme Courts judgment.  ..
In essence, therefore,  the FCAs guidance  to firms for calculating fair compensation in a 
case like Mrs Ds (involving regular premium policies) is that a firm should pay a sum 
equivalent to the commission and profit share that is in excess of 50% of the policys cost, 
together with interest. According to the FCA, compensation calculated in this way would 
Ref: DRN428120118fairly remove the element of unfairness caused  by the existence  of the undisclosed high 
commission. 
my conclusion
Taking all these considerations  into account,  and having carefully  considered Mrs Ds 
representations, my conclusion is as follows:
-Where a court determines that the relationship between a creditor and debtor is 
unfair under section  140A,  the court is empowered  to make a variety of different 
types of orders under  section 140B in order remedy that unfairness.
-Mrs D has urged me to conclude  that because Lloydss failure to disclose the high 
level of commission (and/or profit share) made her relationship with Lloyds unfair, I 
must find that she wouldnt have purchased the policy had she known about these 
matters at the time she purchased  the policy.
-However, I do not accept Mrs Ds suggestion. As I said above, I recognise it is 
possible that had the level of commission been disclosed to Mrs D at the time of the 
sale, she might have  decided not to purchase the policy. At the same time,  however, 
I am mindful of:
i. the FCAs observation in PS17/03  (which  I have  quoted  above) that the 
existence of undisclosed  commission question raises difficult  considerations 
of whether a consumer  would  still have bought the PPI if they had been told 
about the level of commission; and
ii. the fact that there are a variety of other ways to fairly  remedy  the unfairness 
caused to Mrs D by the failure to disclose the high level of commission  I am 
not, as Mrs D suggests, driven  to conclude that she wouldnt  have purchased  
the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of commission.
-I am also mindful that the FCAs guidance  to firms for handling complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission  requires a firm to refund some of the money paid for 
the PPI policy  in order to remedy the unfairness  caused by the failure  to disclose the 
level of commission. I also think that refunding  some of the money paid for the PPI 
policy in this way is an order which the court could,  in the exercise of its discretion, 
make under  section  140B in order  to remedy any unfairness.
 
-Overall, and on balance, I therefore  think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate 
compensation in line with the FCAs guidance for handling complaints about the non-
disclosure of commission and profit share,  and thus return  some of the money Mrs D 
paid for her PPI policy. This is because, in my view,  this:
i. fairly removed the source of the unfairness; while:
ii. leaving  Mrs D with the policies  Ive concluded above she would have  taken 
out if Lloyds had met its obligations  when acting  as an insurance seller   but 
with lower commission and profit share  levels.
   
-In other  words, by compensating  Mrs D in line with the FCAs guidance at step 2, this 
effectively reduced  the overall  cost of the policy by an amount  equal  to the excess 
undisclosed high commission (and/or profit share) which is the very source  of the 
Ref: DRN428120119unfairness for the purposes of section 140A.
  
-I think that compensating Mrs D in this way was a fair and reasonable outcome 
because it left her with the policies I believe she would  have  still taken out (for the 
reasons I explained above) while fairly compensating  her for the unfairness caused 
by the existence of undisclosed high commission. 
Taking all of this into account,  I therefore  consider that Lloyds offer of payment of an amount 
equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in excess  of 50% of the policy  costs, in 
line with the FCAs  guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I do not uphold  the mis-sale element of Mrs Ds complaint or make any award  in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Mrs D an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy cost, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4281201