K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Bank of Scotland  plc trading  as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold  her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Mrs M has been represented throughout her complaint.
background
Mrs M bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a credit card. The sale was 
completed during  a meeting in branch.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs Ms representatives think  that the policy was automatically added  and that Mrs M 
wouldnt have been aware that the policy was optional. And if she had been given the 
choice, she wouldnt have  agreed  to it. 
Halifax has provided a copy of the credit card agreement that Mrs M signed.  On the copy of 
the credit  agreement theres a product details section. There  are two options, Credit Card  
Repayment Insurance (PPI) and Halifax Card  Protection. A printed x appears  next to both 
options. 
I think its most likely  that there  was a conversation between Mrs M and an adviser, before 
the agreement  was completed, printed and signed. And what was typed into the form was a 
reflection of what Mrs M had discussed  with the adviser, including  her personal details and 
employment  and also that she had chosen  to take out PPI. 
If Mrs M didnt want the policy or didnt  know anything about it, she could have questioned 
this. Theres nothing to suggest she did and Mrs M has signed her agreement. So I think  she 
agreed to PPI knowing she had a choice.
Halifax has said that as the sale was completed  in branch it is likely it would have 
recommended the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and based 
on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For example she was 
eligible for the cover and wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.
Ref: DRN49790502Because Mrs M was self-employed  I have looked at the terms required for a self-employed 
person to claim. Having done so, they are no different to what is required for an employed  
person to claim. So I cant say that the policy wasnt suitable for Mrs M because  of her 
occupation.
And as Mrs M didnt receive any sick pay if she was unable to work because of an accident  
or sickness, I think she would have struggled  to meet her repayments if she was off work  for 
a lengthy period. 
So I think the PPI provided a useful benefit. And I cant say the advisers recommendation 
was unsuitable.
Mrs M has also said she had some  savings she could have used to meet her repayments. 
But if Mrs M was out of work for a lengthy  period her savings wouldnt have lasted that long. 
I think she had a need to protect  herself  against  an extended period of sickness or 
unemployment. So I dont  think  her having  some  savings  made  the policy unsuitable  or 
Halifaxs recommendation unreasonable.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mrs M doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  things the 
policy didnt cover  and based  on what I know about her circumstances, as Ive said above, 
it looks like the policy could have  been useful to her. So I dont think  better  information  
wouldve stopped  her buying  it. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about  that. Because  Halifax  didnt tell Mrs M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M and her representatives have said.  But, for the reasons 
above, these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
Ref: DRN49790503But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4979050