K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC allowed him to make transactions on his 
credit card that took him over his credit limit.
background
Mr O has a Barclays credit card account with a credit limit of £7,000. Immediately prior to 
November 2017  the balance outstanding on the account was nil.
In November 2017 Mr O made two transactions on his card in a foreign currency.  The 
sterling equivalent of the value of these  transactions was £9,226.25 and Barclays  charged 
Mr O non sterling transaction  fees totalling  £275.86.  The outstanding balance  on the account 
following the above transactions was, therefore £9,502.11.
Mr O complained to Barclays that it shouldnt  have authorised the above  transactions  
because it meant he had exceeded  his credit limit. He says this amounted to irresponsible  
lending that has placed him in financial difficulty.
Barclays didnt uphold  Mr Os complaint and hes referred it to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought Barclays  
was entitled to make a commercial decision on whether to authorise the transactions and 
she hadnt seen  anything to indicate  that Mr O couldnt afford to make  the transactions  when 
he did so.
Mr O didnt agree with our investigators  recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the account say Barclays may refuse a transaction  if theres  a 
risk youll go overyour credit limit The key word in the above extract  for the purposes of 
this complaint is may. This shows Barclays has a discretion  whether  or not to allow  a 
transaction to proceed if it will take a customer over his credit limit. Theres  nothing to say 
such a transaction  will automatically  be declined.
Although the transactions were made  in a foreign currency I think Mr O would either have 
been aware they would  take him over his credit limit or didnt  check his credit  limit before 
making the transactions. I wouldnt expect him to have tried to make transactions he 
expected to be declined. I think Mr O would have been able to satisfy  himself whether he 
could afford  to incur  a debt on his credit card as a result of making the transactions.
Mr O took out his credit card with Barclays in 2007  and his credit limit has always been 
£7,000. I havent seen  any evidence  that would enable me to conclude  that Barclays should 
have realised Mr O would be put in financial difficulty  if he went  over his credit  limit.
Ref: DRN41558332In all the circumstances, Im satisfied Mr O intended to make the transactions  at the time he 
made them. Im not persuaded that Barclays action in allowing the transactions  to proceed 
amounted to irresponsible lending.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make no 
award against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4155833