K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Wesleyan Financial  Services Ltd failed to provide him with suitable  
advice regarding his pension arrangements in 1997.  
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
April 2019. An extract from this is attached and forms  part of this final decision, so I will not 
repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Wesleyan has said 
it has nothing further to add, and Mr S, although  having confirmed he has received the 
provisional decision, hasnt provided  any additional comments.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with anything further I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions I reached  in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against Wesleyan Financial Services Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48418022EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr S complains that Wesleyan Financial  Services Ltd failed to provide him with suitable advice  
regarding his pension arrangements  in 1997. 
background
Mr S was provided with advice on his pension arrangements in 1997 by an appointed representative  
of Wesleyan. So although it had no direct contact with Mr S, it is Wesleyan that was responsible for 
that advice.  And for simplicity  I will generally refer to all actions as having  been taken  by Wesleyan 
directly when writing  this decision.
Mr S initially met with Wesleyan  in August  1996 to discuss his pension arrangements.  Following that 
meeting Wesleyan  recommended to Mr S that he should  take a personal pension plan (PPP). But 
Mr S appears  to have  taken no action  on that recommendation at that time.
Mr S met again with the same representative of Wesleyan almost a year later, in June 1997.  And after 
taking details of Mr Ss updated financial circumstances  Wesleyan again  recommended that Mr S 
took a PPP. Mr S agreed to that recommendation and a PPP was taken out a few days later. Mr S 
stopped contributing to that PPP in 2006.
When he was sold the PPP Mr S had two distinct sources of income. He received  a salary in relation 
to his main employment. And he also received  income  as a result of private consultancy work. He was 
a member of an occupational  pension scheme in respect of his main salary  income.
The recommendation  that was given to Mr S by Wesleyan focussed on providing pension 
arrangements in relation to his private consultancy income. Mr S says that he now understands that it 
might have been more  beneficial for him to have paid Additional Voluntary Contributions (AVC)  to his 
occupational scheme, and purchased added years pension benefits rather than taking out a PPP. He 
says that Wesleyan  should  have considered this when it provided him with advice.
Mr Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He concluded that the advice  given 
to Mr S had been reasonable  given  that Mr S had been keen  to ensure  he had pension provision in 
relation to his private  earnings. So he didnt think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr S didnt agree 
with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide.
I should  also note that in response to our adjudicators assessment Mr S further complained that his 
PPP had not been regularly reviewed in more recent years. It doesnt seem to me that this formed  
part of his initial complaint to Wesleyan. Nor have I seen anything  so far that would make me think the 
ongoing review of Mr Ss pension was something that Wesleyan had agreed to undertake. So I wont 
be commenting  further  on this issue in this decision. If Mr S feels that Wesleyan had agreed to 
provide him with ongoing advice  he would need to make a new complaint about  that specific matter.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
Ref: DRN48418023At the outset I think  it is useful to reflect  on the role of this service. This service  isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things right by 
placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position  they would have  been if the problem  hadnt 
occurred.
The advice that forms this complaint was given  over twenty years ago. So whilst I have no doubts  that 
Mr S has provided  his complete and honest recollections of what  happened at that time,  Im mindful 
that even  the most careful  memories can, and do, fade over such a lengthy period of time. So I have 
looked carefully  at the information that was provided to Mr S at the time Wesleyan made  the 
recommendation to him. And where  the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made  my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what  evidence  we do 
have, and the surrounding circumstances,  to help me decide what  I think  is more  likely to have 
happened.
I do share some of Mr Ss concerns about the basis  of the advice that was provided  to him by 
Wesleyan in 1997. It is clear  that he had two sources of income at that time. It seems to me that it 
would have been reasonable to conclude  that his private income would  at the very least remain  
stable, and most likely increase, over the coming  years. And I also think it was reasonable to 
conclude that it was most  likely that Mr S would remain an active member of the same occupational 
pension scheme for the remainder of his working  life.
It seems to me that the advice Wesleyan provided  to Mr S concluded that his earnings from 
employment were covered  by the occupational scheme. But his private earnings had no pension 
benefits, and so that was where its advice  was concentrated. But I dont think it was reasonable to 
treat the two sources of income  so distinctly. I havent  seen anything  to suggest that Mr S treated 
them in that way, and so I think  the recommendation Wesleyan made should have considered  Mr Ss 
income and pension provision on a holistic  basis.
It appears that Wesleyan did do some  research  on Mr Ss occupational pension.  It asked  some 
questions of the administrator and in particular about  whether Mr S would be able to retire and take 
his benefits before  his contractual retirement age of 65 years.  But the recommendation that was given 
to Mr S didnt  provide him with any details  about the options  that might be available to him to increase 
his overall pension  benefits  through  the occupational scheme rather than by taking a PPP.
But although  I think the recommendation  Wesleyan gave to Mr S didnt go far enough in explaining 
the alternatives open to him, that in itself doesnt  mean the complaint should be upheld.  I also need to 
consider what  better advice  should have comprised, and if better  advice  would have led to Mr S 
making a different decision.
The information that Wesleyan  gathered from the administrator of Mr Ss occupational scheme 
indicated that Mr S didnt have a right to retire before  he was 65. But Mr S was able to retire earlier if 
his employer at the time consented although early retirement would mean  that the number  of years 
service used to calculate his pension benefits would be reduced. If Mr S had worked until he was 65 
he would be just eight  months short of the maximum  40 years service that could be used to accrue  
pension benefits  with his occupational scheme.
I have also recently contacted the administrator of the occupational scheme  to understand what  
options might  have been  available to Mr S in 1997. The administrator has confirmed that in 1997 Mr S 
would have been restricted in the amount of added service  he would have been allowed to purchase.  
It has said that it would have needed  to ensure  that the total service  at retirement would not have 
exceeded 40 years.
Ref: DRN48418024When Wesleyan was asked by Mr S to give him some advice on his pensions he said his main  
objectives were to maximise  his pension  benefits and to retire early at age 60. Based on what Ive 
said above, I dont think it would have been clear  that these objectives could have been met by paying  
AVCs to the occupational scheme. That scheme didnt give Mr S the ability to decide to take his 
pension benefits  at age 60  for that he needed  the consent  of his employer.  And the number of 
added years he could have bought would  have  been  severely restricted  to ensure that his maximum 
pensionable service didnt exceed 40 years.
So, in 1997, I think it would have been reasonable for Wesleyan to have concluded  that Mr S could 
best meet  his pension objectives by taking out a PPP rather than making  AVCs to his occupational 
scheme. And I think that, even if it had provided better advice  to Mr S and explained  about the other 
occupational scheme options open to him, Mr S would  have still decided to take the PPP that he 
ultimately agreed to. 
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, Mr S might have  been better off maximising  his 
occupational benefits  rather than taking  a PPP. His occupational earnings  have increased significantly 
and his private earnings have been  much lower. But I dont think either  of those scenarios formed part 
of the information Wesleyan was given by Mr S when it formulated its advice. 
Ref: DRN4841802