K820x#14Complaint
Mr N has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax,  wont  refund 
transactions, which he says he didnt make.
Background
Mr N was abroad from 20 July 2018  to 1 September 2018. 
He couldnt access  his online banking while he was away. On his return to the UK, he 
reported the problem to his local branch. The branch told him the bank had suspended his 
online banking because of suspected  fraud. 
He found out that between 24 and 27 August 2018,  his debit card details had been used for 
online purchases from several luxury and designer  retailers. The transactions  totalled 
£2,185.84.
There was also an online banking application for an overdraft, which  the bank declined.
During this period, there  were four cash deposits  into his account,  made  in the UK, and 
totalling £1,345.
There were also a number of bank transfers  into his account from third parties, totalling 
£4,065.
Mr N said he didnt make  the online purchases. He said he was abroad and had his card 
with him. He still had his card when he visited the branch. And he hadnt  stored  his card 
details anywhere.  
He said he lives with his young son in the UK and no one else has access to his property. 
When he was abroad,  he slept in a room on his own. He left his son in the UK with his 
brother. He said he never left his card unattended. 
He said he didnt know how anyone else could  know his card details.
He didnt dispute the cash deposits. He explained that one of the bank transfers came from 
the sale proceeds from his car. The other  transfers came from people  he knew, who asked 
him to give cash gifts to their relatives  and friends living  in the country  he visited.
He asked Halifax for a refund of the disputed transactions.
Halifax investigated his complaint and decided not to refund him for the following reasons:
his card details were used to make the payments. He said he had the card with him 
and he hadnt  stored  the details anywhere. If he didnt  make the online purchases,  
then he must have shared the details  with someone else
he didnt need  to be in the UK to make online purchases
he didnt dispute  the cash deposits into his account, which were made in the UK 
while he was abroad
Ref: DRN47859772Halifax had blocked his card on three occasions after declining some transactions.  
On each occasion, someone  called the bank to unblock the card.  It believes the 
caller was Mr N because  he passed  all its security checks and sounded like him.
However, Halifax also explained that it had suspended his online banking on 24 August after 
receiving a request  to send a reminder  of the online  ID and to reset the mobile banking app. 
Given there was a log in just 24 hours  earlier, it thought it unusual he should  request a 
reminder.
Despite this unusual  activity, Halifax considered that Mr N was the caller trying to unblock his 
card and, therefore, that he authorised  the disputed payments. 
As Mr N didnt  agree with Halifaxs  decision, he asked us to investigate.
Our investigator looked into his complaint and decided not to uphold it. He didnt think the 
caller was Mr N but he couldnt ignore the fact that the caller had passed all the security 
checks and gave answers, which only Mr N could know. Our investigator decided  that the 
caller could only know these details if Mr N had shared them  with him or allowed him access 
to his account. For this reason, he concluded  that Mr N must have allowed someone to use 
his card details. 
Mr N disagreed with our investigators view. Hes asked  for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  the relevant  regulations,  
the transactions and the evidence. Mr N and Halifax  have read the investigators view so I 
wont repeat  every detail  here, only those that are directly relevant to my decision. However, 
I can assure both parties that I have read the file, including the evidence,  which  they have 
provided. Having  done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall 
conclusions as those  reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
In short,  Halifax is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  
2017). Mr N says he didnt make the disputed payments and is seeking a refund of that 
amount. So, my primary concern is to come  to a view about whether or not I think Mr N 
authorised the payments. 
Having reviewed the technical evidence,  Im satisfied Mr Ns card details were used to make  
the payments.  This evidence shows that the card number  and CVV code were used to 
authenticate the payments. For two retailers, there is also an address match.
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own,  enough to enable  Halifax 
to hold him liable.  So, I also need  to think about whether the evidence suggests that its 
more likely than not that Mr N consented  to the transactions.  He doesnt need  to know about 
the purchases to consent to them. He is treated as having consented,  even if hes allowed 
someone else to use his card, or account, for another  purpose.  
Ref: DRN47859773Based on this interpretation,  Im afraid I think he did authorise the payments. I will explain 
why Ive reached this conclusion.
I think its clear  someone else had access to Mr Ns account and that this person made the 
online purchases. 
Ive listened to the calls made by the person  trying  to unblock  the card. Ive also listened to 
the call from Mr N in branch. In my opinion, the voices are very different. I dont consider 
they are the same  person.  The caller  knew about the purchases and in one call, he 
described this account as the one he uses for luxury items.  This is clearly untrue, looking at 
the spending pattern on the account. So, I dont think Mr N made  the disputed payments.  
However, if he shared  his details with a third party, or allowed him to use his card details, 
then, as Ive explained, he is treated as having  authorised them. I now have to consider 
whether he shared his card details with someone else.
The caller  knew enough about Mr Ns account  to pass the banks security checks. 
Admittedly, the caller couldve gleaned most of the answers, such  as the last ATM 
withdrawal and details  of a regular payment into the account, from a bank statement  paper 
or online. Personal details  might also be obtained from statements, other post and the 
internet. I think the caller  could even make an educated guess at the branch where the 
account was opened, as the statements cite the branch name  and address.
But, there were two pieces of information,  which I dont think  the caller would know  from a 
bank statement or from online banking: the date the account was opened  and the debit card 
details  in particular the valid from date and the expiry date, which  would be on the card 
itself.
Yet, Mr N said he had his card with him at all times while he was abroad  and he hadnt 
stored the details anywhere or kept a photocopy.  He said no one else had access to his 
home. However, the caller knew his card details. And he used those details  to make the 
online purchases, keying in the CVV code too. Im afraid I can only conclude that Mr N 
shared the details with a third party at some point or he didnt have  it with him as he says he 
did. Alternatively, a third party took the card and returned it to him while  he was abroad but 
Mr N has ruled  this out. He said he always had the card. Besides, the calls to unblock  the 
card coincided with the UK log ins, so I think its more likely this was someone in the UK.
Ive also looked  at the online banking  audit reports for Mr Ns account. I can see that 
someone logged  in to his online banking  on 24 and 25 August 2018 from IP addresses in the 
UK.  This person requested a reminder for the user ID and asked to reset the mobile  banking  
app. The person also applied unsuccessfully for an overdraft.
This clearly wasnt Mr N. He logged in from an IP address in the country  he was visiting. 
However, to log in the person needed  the username, password and three  digits  from a 
memorable piece of information,  which are selected  randomly at each log in. Halifax also 
said the consumer  doesnt type in the digits but selects them from a dropdown menu.  This is 
to reduce the possibility of fraud from key tracking.
None of the disputed transactions was made  from online banking. Im including  this evidence 
to demonstrate that a third party had access to the account and knew  a considerable amount  
of information  about Mr Ns banking details. As with his card,  Mr N said only he knew  his log 
in details and no one else had access to his home.  Again, I have to conclude  that he must 
have shared this information with someone else. Alternatively, someone he knew  had 
Ref: DRN47859774access to his home and found the relevant information. But this doesnt fit with  what Mr N 
has told us
There were also four cash deposits  in the UK between 20 July and 22 August. Mr N doesnt  
dispute these  transactions.  He said the deposits  were made by:
a friend,  who asked him to give money  to a friend abroad (£840 on 20 July)
his sister, to buy dollars for clothes  (£385  on 20 August)
his brother, who gave  him money  to go out (£70 and £50 on 22 August).
According to Halifaxs records,  all the cash deposits  were made  at immediate cash deposit 
machines. Halifax told us that in July/August 2018,  the machines would have been 
accepting cash deposits without the need for a debit card.  In August 2018,  customers could 
use the machine  by typing the sort code and account number  only. 
At the very least,  it looks as if Mr N left his bank details with one or more  sibling and or a 
friend. Admittedly, his account details are not the same as his card details. But I think the 
evidence shows its more  likely than not that he also shared his card details with someone 
he knew, given what the caller knew. And he might have been  content for a sibling  or friend  
to use his details  to deposit cash.  Its also possible he wanted his brother, who was caring 
for his son while  he was abroad, to have  access to money for his upkeep. However, I 
appreciate Mr N hasnt said whether any such arrangements were  in place.
I accept Mr N didnt carry out the transactions; but I think that either they were done with his 
agreement or because he gave his details  away. 
Considering everything, I find, on balance,  that Mr N authorised the disputed  payments. It 
follows that Halifax is entitled to hold him liable for them. 
I am sincerely sorry for Mr N. Im sure he didnt  expect someone he knew and trusted to use 
his card details to buy luxury items. However,  by allowing someone else to use his card 
details, albeit for a different purpose, he is treated as having authorised all transactions.
I am sorry  to send disappointing  news,  but I hope the reasons for my decision are clear  and I 
thank Mr N for his patience while weve investigated  his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4785977