K820x#14complaint
Ms Cs unhappy that MBNA Limited registered  a default on her credit file in 2013.
background
Ms C says she entered a debt repayment  scheme  on 12 June 2012  which  included her 
MBNA credit card. She says the default shouldve been registered on her credit file by it no 
later than 12 December  2012 and not in 2013. She wants  this corrected and her credit file 
amended accordingly.
MBNA said in its final response that Ms C contacted it via a debt management  company on 
13 June 2012  to make it aware of her financial  difficulties. Based on the information given it 
was able to suppress interest and fees on her account. But the amount she could afford to 
pay wouldnt  be enough to prevent  it registering a default with credit  reference agencies. It 
said it would  default  an account when more  than six payments are in arrears.  And that does 
not necessarily mean the same as missing seven consecutive minimum payments as the 
payments made may be enough  to prevent her falling a payment into arrears each month. 
Thats what  happened with Ms Cs account. It may well have been beneficial  for her to have  
managed her account differently at the time but it acted correctly  on the information given by 
her debt management company. As such  the default date is correct. And as it sold her 
account the MBNA entry is a ghost entry and can only be seen by Ms C. If Ms C remains 
unhappy she can complain to the Information Commissioners  Office or seek  to enforce her 
right of rectification  through a court of law. 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
Having examined  the credit report Ms C has sent in, the default applied  to her credit  
file by MBNA is a ghost entry. Thats  the industry  standard  for when a business has 
sold a debt to another  company. MBNA  has confirmed that it would report an entry  
on the customers credit file as the balance being sold.  But it says all lenders 
understand this and will automatically  ignore  it. The use of the word  ghost is purely  
just terminology.
Ms C says her payments were reduced and interest frozen  from June 2012  when  she 
entered into a debt management plan and a default  means failing to make  a payment 
by the due date.  She says although  she was making payments they werent for the 
full amounts due. So her account  was first in default  in June 2012 and it shouldve 
been registered six months later by December 2012. 
The Information Commissioners  Office  provides  guidelines to registering defaults. 
They say one is normally registered  when a customer is six months in arrears.  MBNA 
sent the notice  of default in January and February 2013. Ms C wasnt six months  in 
arrears until February  and March 2013. He cant agree she was more than six 
months in arrears until the default was registered  on 30 April 2013. Her credit  file 
showed she was six months in arrears before the default was registered. MBNAs 
registration of a default in April 2013 was therefore  reasonable. 
And as this default also has no significant  impact on any credit assessments he will 
not be asking  MBNA  to do anything.
Ref: DRN45822192Ms C remains unhappy  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. She says by the time the 
default was registered she was over ten months  in arrears. There was a three  month delay 
before the default was registered.  At very least this shouldve happened  shortly after 18 
February 2013 allowing for the timescales  to respond set out in the letters. This is contrary to 
published guidelines and evidence of tardiness on the part of MBNA.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
Im not convinced Ms C was sufficiently in arrears in June 2012 to suggest a default  
shouldve been  entered then. Her June 2012  credit  card statement shows  she was due to 
pay £322 the month before but her direct  debit was returned.
After that MBNA was contacted by Ms Cs debt management company. And it appears 
MBNA froze interest and allowed her time to get back within the agreed payments before it 
considered applying the default. On balance I think that was reasonable. It finally sent out 
the default correspondence  and notice in February and March 2013.  And it registered  the 
default in April 2013. 
I think it was fair for MBNA to delay  recording the default until Ms C was six months in 
arrears as it did in April 2013. Ms Cs view is that MBNA was tardy but on balance I think  its 
approach was fair and reasonable and generally in line with the ICO guidelines.  
Overall, although I recognise  Ms Cs strength of feeling, I dont think I can fairly or 
reasonably require MBNA to change the registration  date of the default  to either December 
2012 or February 2013 as shed  like.
Furthermore MBNA says that as its sold Ms Cs account this is now a ghost entry on her 
credit file, only visible to her. And it will not therefore have any significant impact on other  
credit assessments.  
Taking everything into account  I think,  on balance, that MBNA has acted fairly and 
reasonably. And I dont  see any compelling  reason to change the proposed outcome in this 
case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before15 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4582219