K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC didnt  make it clear that her home 
insurance policy didnt  cover the full value of her jewellery.
background
Mrs P took out home insurance with an insurance  company  that she bought  online through  
Tesco. She took out the policy in 2015  and renewed  it every year. In 2018 she made  a claim 
on the insurance following a burglary at her home. Part of the claim was for jewellery that 
has been valued at over £30,000. As the policy has a limit of £15,000 for valuables, the 
insurer didnt cover the full value of the jewellery.  
Mrs P said she had checked with Tesco during a phone call that the jewellery would be 
covered. She said she was told that as contents weres covered up to £75,000, it would be. 
She complained to Tesco.
Tesco didnt  uphold  her complaint. It said it had listened to all phone  calls from Mrs P and 
couldnt find a call where she mentioned her jewellery cover. It also said the valuables  limit is 
listed in the policy and it had sent the policy documents to her every year she renewed, 
since the cover started in 2015.
Mrs P wasnt  happy with this response  as she said Tesco had told her that her jewellery 
would be covered so she thought it should  pay the shortfall in her claim. She said she hadnt 
received a copy of the documents by post,  as requested and she only found  the email  copy  
in her junk mail recently, following her 2018  renewal. She complained to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt  think  Tesco  had done anything  wrong. 
She said she had listened  to calls between Mrs P and Tesco and hadnt found a call where 
Mrs P made it aware of the jewellery. She also said the valuables limit is made  clear  in the 
policy schedule that had been sent to her. Mrs P wasnt happy with this response and asked 
for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P is unhappy that the full value of her jewellery isnt covered under the policy,  as the 
standard limit for valuables is £15,000.  As she bought the insurance through Tesco,  I need 
to decide whether it gave her correct and clear information about the policys limitations 
when it renewed  it in 2018.
When selling  insurance firms are required to provide good enough information to enable 
customers to make  informed decisions about  the policies they are selling. This includes 
making customers aware of the main exclusions and limitations of a policy  during the sale.  
Each year Tesco provided Mrs P with policy documents. In 2018  the cover  letter  asked 
Mrs P to read the schedule and statement of fact. The schedule  includes the limit to 
valuables and the statement of fact gives a definition of valuables. I think it is a reasonable 
expectation that customers check that the policy meets their needs  if there  are specific items 
they need to ensure are covered. By providing  the details of the policy each  year, and the 
fact this particular  limit is included in the policy schedule, I think  the limits were clear  enough  
Ref: DRN48986292for Mrs P to make that assessment. I therefore  think Tesco  provided clear information  in 
order for Mrs P to make  an informed decision. As Mrs P didnt explain that she owned 
valuable jewellery,  there  would  be no reason for Tesco to assume she would have valuables 
above the limit in the policy.
Mrs P says that she didnt  receive a copy of the 2018 policy document by post and she only 
noticed the email  copy when  she made a claim, as it had gone to her junk mail. Tesco has 
provided a copy of their system notes that show a policy was sent by post, but it seems this 
didnt arrive with Mrs P. However, I still think she had enough information about the policy  
without this. She was sent a copy of the documents each year she renewed. The information 
about the limit for valuables was in each of these and the limit didnt change.  I understand 
Mrs P says she didnt notice the policy as it went to her junk mail, however this means it did 
arrive with her so Tesco did send  it at the time of renewal. It would then be up to Mrs P to 
check the policy at that time. I therefore  cant say Tesco didnt provide Mrs P with enough 
information for her to review the limits of the policy.
Mrs P says she checked with Tesco that the full value  of her jewellery would be covered  
under the policy  during a phone call. Tesco has provided all calls between  itself and Mrs P 
since she first took out the policy in 2015. Ive listened to these calls and I havent been  able 
to find one where she mentions that she owns valuable jewellery or where she asks about 
the limit for valuables.  In two of the calls Mrs P checked the limit for the contents insurance 
and was told it was £75,000. However,  she didnt mention the jewellery and the valuables  
limit wasnt  discussed. So I cant say that Tesco gave Mrs P incorrect information about the 
full value of the jewellery being  covered under the policy. 
For the reasons  Ive outlined, I think Tesco has provided Mrs P with clear information about 
the policy and I havent been  able to identify any incorrect information it has given about the 
policy limits.  I therefore wont require Tesco to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I dont uphold this complaint and do not require Tesco 
Personal Finance  PLC to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4898629