K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds)  declined  his 
buildings insurance  claim under  his buildings insurance policy.
Reference to Lloyds includes their agents.
background
On 14 March 2017, Mr M contacted Lloyds to make  a claim  as he noticed  some damp in one 
of the bedrooms in his house.  Later Mr M said the damp  was caused by an issue  with the 
cavity wall insulation, that he has since paid to have resolved,  and it had nothing  to do with 
this claim for the roof.  
In March 2017, Lloyds assessed the tiled and the adjacent flat roofs  and agreed to replace a 
multi pitched clay tile, which  was displaced, and agreed to reconnect the rainwater guttering.  
But Lloyds didnt  think the adjacent flat roof had been damaged due to a one off incident 
caused by a storm.  
During the calls with Lloyds Mr M told them he has contacted his own builder to do the work.  
Lloyds agreed  that Mr M could withdraw his claim, but they would remove the clay title they 
already replaced  and they agreed that he wouldnt have to pay the policy  excess of £100.   
On 26 January 2018, Mr M called Lloyds and said there was water coming through the 
bedroom light fitting. Mr M says that a dislodged tile from the previous storm, he reported to 
Lloyds in March  2017, punctured the felt material on the adjacent  flat roof, which  caused the 
water ingress. On 29 January 2018, Lloyds sent another  agent  to inspect Mr Ms roof. They  
said the cause  of the water ingress  was sagging to the decking boards  of the flat roof and 
they declined  Mr Ms claim.  
Mr M was unhappy with this so he brought his complaint to this service. He has also 
provided his own report that says the most likely  cause of the moisture ingress is through the 
puncture noted in the flat roof. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He thought that Lloyds  had 
fairly declined the claim because he didnt think Mr Ms flat roof had been damaged by a one 
off incident caused by a storm. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigator.  So the complaint has been  passed to me to make a 
decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The first question that needs to be answered in this type of complaint is whether or not there  
was a storm at the relevant time. Mr Ms policy defines the word storm as violent weather 
like strong  winds of 55mph or more, torrential rain, heavy snow  or hail that causes damage  
to hard surfaces  or breaks glass.
Ive looked at the weather  records for Mr Ms local area and I did see that on the 
Ref: DRN4202530223 February 2017, the date Mr M says the storm was in his area,  there were peak wind 
gusts of 66 mph with some rainfall.  Taking this into consideration, I think most  likely there  
were storm  conditions around the time of damage. But even if there was a storm, it would  
still have to be the main/dominant  cause  of the damage. 
There are three reports; two from Lloyds and one from Mr M. 
The first report  from Lloyds,  which  was carried following Mr Ms call to Lloyds on 
14 March 2017,  indicates the multi  pitched  clay tiled roof suffered limited storm damage  to 
the LH hip and will require  repairs   this refers to the clay tile that needed replacement.  It 
goes on to say that the scope of repairs will include the reconnection of some  rainwater 
guttering to the side. However, in regards to the adjacent  flat roof, it said that there  was 
failing sarking felt due to its age through continued  expansion / contraction  and is showing  
the usual signs  of failure. It goes on to say that the flat roof was repudiated on site after 
sharing photographs with Mr M.
The second  report  from Lloyds, which was carried on 29 January 2018, concludes the
cause of damage was gradual. The damage was due to an existing issue  with the felt roof 
covering. It goes on to say the inspection revealed  sagging to the decking boards of the flat 
roof area which is a sign of an ingress  of water over a prolonged period of time. As such,  
we do not consider a valid claim arises and the claim  has been declined  in full. The outcome 
of the claim has been discussed and confirmed with the customer  while  on site, this was fully 
understood however not accepted. It also states  that the puncture  hole,  located  approx. 
3.4mtr from the rear and approx. 1.75mtr from the gable does not appear to have been  
caused by impact from a falling tile as the hole appears to be circular and quite deep. I also 
find it difficult to understand how a single interlocking concrete tile would have been blown 
from the hipped  roof with enough force to puncture  a felt covering located to its right and 
then cause damage to a fence panel below, or how the internal damage  is not as severe  as 
you would  expect for a roof that has been leaking over 12 months.
The report  provided  by Mr M, concludes that It is difficult  to identify the exact  cause of 
moisture ingress without  undertaking an intrusive  inspection. The most likely  cause of the 
moisture ingress is through  the puncture noted to the flat roof. Roof  covering can experience 
uplift during windy weather,  and it is not uncommon for tiles to lift, fall and damage adjacent  
building elements. As such, it is likely that the flat roof was punctured by the uplifted roof tile 
and is the root cause of moisture ingress  through the light switch  and subsequent damp,  
which would be exacerbated by the defect gutters.
Based on the reports provided, there  are two versions of what  was the most likely cause of 
the water  ingress  into Mr Ms home.  So I carefully  considered all three reports, and I think,  
on balance, the two reports from Lloyds are the most persuasive on what  caused the water 
ingress. I say this because Ive seen the pictures,  from both of the reports  provided by 
Lloyds, and from these  I can see that the roof wasnt in a good condition,  which  coincides 
with the conclusions of the two reports.  In several areas of the adjacent flat roof there is a 
significant amount  of water pooling and lots of moss  and vegetation growing that suggests 
its more likely than not that the flat roof was showing signs of failure due to its age and 
condition. So based on this, I think most  likely the damage was already there and the storm 
simply highlighted an existing problem;  which  means the damage isnt covered by the policy.
Mr M has also mentioned that Lloyds  after the first inspection in March 2017 shouldve  told 
him that the rainwater guttering still needed reconnecting. However,  in a call with Lloyds, 
Ref: DRN42025303Mr M has asked  to withdraw his claim because  he said that he was getting  his own builder to 
do the works. Considering that Lloyds  agreed that Mr M could withdraw his claim, and he 
wouldnt have to pay the policy excess, it is fair and reasonable that they shouldnt  be 
responsible for this. 
Whilst I realise that my decision  will come as a disappointment to Mr M, I dont think  Lloyds 
acted unreasonably in relying on their agents reports and declining Mr Ms claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Mike Kozbial
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4202530