K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that RMIS (RTW)  LIMITED  didnt deal properly with two investment policies 
that he held. He also complains that when his property was repossessed and sold, RMIS 
didnt return the proceeds of the sale to him.
background
Mr E held two investment  policies with RMIS, taken out in 1989.  The policies were designed 
to support his main  endowment mortgage (held  with a separate lender) and a top up loan of 
£7,000 that he took from RMIS at the same time. The top up loan was secured on his 
property, as a second  charge.
A few years after taking  the loan and policies,  Mr E fell into arrears.  This was in part because  
he went abroad and missed some payments, and also because  his mortgage lender 
converted his interest only mortgage  into a repayment mortgage.  This change caused  Mr E 
some financial  difficulty and he could  no longer  keep  up payments on his borrowing and 
investment policies.
Mr E surrendered one of his policies in 1994.  RMIS applied the surrender value of the policy  
to the arrears on Mr Es account and no money was physically returned  to Mr E. 
The second  policy  continued running,  as did Mr Es loan and mortgage. In 2013  Mr Es 
property was repossessed and sold. The bulk of the sale proceeds was used  to clear Mr Es 
mortgage balance.  The mortgage lender then forwarded the remaining  balance to RMIS, 
who used it to clear Mr Es loan balance  and fees. There was a surplus of £1,675.25, which 
RMIS sent to the lender holding the third charge on the property.
At the beginning  of 2014, RMIS contacted Mr E to tell him his second policy was still in force.  
Mr E called RMIS with his new contact details  and requested the forms to receive the 
maturity value of the policy. RMIS sent these, along with a request  for various  documents  to 
prove Mr Es identity, as the original policy document had been  lost. Mr E provided these 
documents and the completed  forms in 2017, at which point RMIS paid him the value  of the 
policy, as it was at maturity in 2014.  No additional interest  was paid.
Mr E complained to RMIS that it should have  paid interest on the three years  between the 
policy maturing and RMIS making payment to him. He also raised  concerns that RMIS may 
have wrongly withheld  the proceeds  of his propertys sale in 2013. Finally  he said he never 
wanted to surrender the first policy  in 1994  and felt he was wrongfully  pressured  into this by 
RMIS.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and didnt  uphold  it, as they didnt think  
RMIS had done  anything wrong.  Mr E didnt accept the adjudicators  view and the complaint 
was referred to me for a final decision.
On 15 March 2019 I issued a provisional decision which upheld Mr Es complaint in part. 
I recommended RMIS should pay interest on the second policys  maturity value at BoE base 
rate. I didnt think it needed  to do anything further  in relation to Mr Es other complaint points.
Neither Mr E nor RMIS agreed with my provisional  decision. Having reviewed their 
comments, I was minded  to change my decision and issued a second provisional decision  
on 4 June 2019. An extract is attached  and forms part of this decision.
Ref: DRN48379152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E replied  to my provisional decision of 4 June with a further copy of the agreement he 
signed surrendering the first policy in 1994.  He reiterated that RMIS hadnt provided a 
breakdown of the payment amounts and he disputes  the figures given.
As I explained in my provisional decisions,  I dont think its unreasonable  that RMIS no 
longer has a copy of the payment breakdown,  given the policy  was surrendered  over 20 
years ago. Mr E received his own legal advice at the time and I can see his solicitor  asked 
for a breakdown then, which I assume was received. Theres nothing  from the time to 
indicate that Mr E or his solicitor had any concerns about the amounts quoted. So I cant  
reasonably say RMIS has done anything wrong.
Neither Mr E nor RMIS had any further comments.  So I see no reason to change the findings 
from my provisional decision of 4 June.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and am not instructing RMIS (RTW) LIMITED to do anything 
further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019
Cara Goodbody
ombudsman
EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im not upholding it. Mr E has raised  three main 
points, which Ill address in chronological order.
the surrender of the policy  in 1994
Mr E has expressed a number of concerns about the surrender of this policy. He firstly queries  the 
balance of arrears RMIS calculated at the time. The debt was around £3,000, which Mr E believes is 
much more than the total of missed payments  at that time.
Mr E then says that when his mortgage was converted to a repayment mortgage, he tried to cancel 
his endowment policy  with RMIS.  He says that RMIS didnt accept  this and took legal action to force 
him to continue with the policy. Although  this alleged legal action was apparently withdrawn, Mr E 
says RMIS incurred legal costs which it held him responsible for.
Ref: DRN48379153I think  its important to bear in mind that these  events happened over 20 years ago. Theres little 
documentary evidence from the time and while I appreciate the strength  of Mr Es feelings in this 
matter, I have to consider  that exact timescales and conversations can become blurred  with the 
passage of time.
That being so, I have seen  correspondence  from the time which suggests  Mr E had consulted  
solicitors about surrendering his policy. And his solicitor confirmed at the time that Mr E was willing  to 
surrender the policy, the value of which  should be used to clear his debts, including  costs.
I dont have enough evidence  to say exactly how the arrears were  calculated,  or how RMIS and Mr E 
determined that policy surrender was the best way forward. A breakdown of calculations is no longer 
available, given the time thats passed. But I can see that Mr Es solicitor asked  for this breakdown  at 
the time. And I think its most likely that was provided.
Mr E has said that there  should be a record of the calculations, as he thinks the same calculations 
were used to work out the second  policys maturity value in 2017. But I havent seen anything to 
suggest that was the case. The two policies  were  separate and distinct. As the first policy  was 
surrendered over 20 years ago, I dont  think its unreasonable that RMIS no longer  has the exact 
details of payments into the policy.
Mr E has pointed to a section of the surrender agreement that confirms he would no longer have to 
make payment towards the policy. He says this shows RMIS  was previously insisting he continue  with 
payments. But I cant agree  with this interpretation. It seems a logical consequence of surrendering 
the policy  that future payments wont be necessary. I dont think  the section Mr E has highlighted 
shows anything other than confirmation of this.
As Mr E took his own legal advice on the matter, I dont think its likely he was pressured  or coerced 
into surrendering the policy. And if he or his solicitor  had concerns about the legality of RMISs 
actions, Id have expected these to have been raised  at the time.  I cant see anything  to suggest they 
were.
So overall, I cant  say RMIS did anything  wrong with regard to Mr Es first policy. Accordingly Im not 
asking it to do anything further.
the proceeds of the property  sale in 2013
At the time of sale in 2013, there were at least four charges on Mr Es property. The first charge was 
held by Mr Es mortgage  lender and its this debt that the bulk of the sale price  was used to repay. 
Once the main  mortgage  had been settled, the lender  forwarded £9,649.28 to RMIS.
From this sum RMIS took the outstanding loan capital  of £7,000, plus outstanding interest and 
charges of £974.03.  This left a balance  of £1,675.25. RMIS had a legal obligation  to pass  this on to 
the third charge holder, which  it did. I appreciate  Mr Es disappointment that he doesnt appear to 
have seen any part of the sale proceeds, but I cant say RMIS did anything wrong by following its 
obligations.
the lack of interest on the second policys maturity value
Ive seen copies of correspondence between RMIS and Mr E at the time the second policy  matured.  
Despite being abroad, its clear Mr E was able to get in touch with RMIS and it seems he did receive 
at least  some of the letters it sent to him at that time.
Mr E hasnt explained  why it took three years to return the completed forms and requested 
documents. From everything Ive seen, it appears RMIS did all it could to get the necessary 
information from Mr E in 2014. That he didnt  reply until 2017 isnt RMISs fault. But my understanding 
of standard industry  practice is that its usual  to pay interest where delays  are incurred, regardless of 
Ref: DRN48379154cause. RMIS has said it would usually  consider doing so  but given recent low interest rates, its 
house rate has been 0% for some time.
In my earlier decision,  I said I didnt think that was a fair position. Setting a house rate of 0% is, to all 
intents and purposes,  ruling out paying interest at all. And I didnt think  that was reasonable.
In its response, RMIS explained that it had taken this position for all consumers in a similar  situation 
to Mr E over the past few years. It said that the need to keep the funds  accessible meant it could only 
earn a very low rate of interest itself (around 0.2% - 0.25%) and it incurred  extra  costs in monitoring  
the outstanding claim, including allowing for the sum in its accounts.  So theres  been no discernible 
benefit to RMIS in retaining  the money  and as I note above, in this instance it doesnt appear the 
delay was caused by RMIS.
Having carefully considered this, Im persuaded by RMIS points. In this particular case, given its 
attempts to get the necessary authorisation in 2014, and Mr Es lack of response, I think  its 
reasonable that no interest was paid. And Im not now recommending RMIS does anything  further.
Ref: DRN4837915