K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied to him by Motability 
Operations Limited.
background
In March 2015 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a contract  hire agreement with 
Motability.
Mr S says he began  to experience issues with the car when it was a few months old. He 
described the following issues:
Random acceleration. Mr S says that sometimes when the car was stationary and he 
put his foot on the accelerator  to move away the car wouldnt move.  A second  later it 
would shoot forwards.
Unpredictable rev control
Mr S says on one occasion the car was difficult to restrain and almost  collided with 
an iron gate
Mr S says he raised these  issues with the garage but was told there  was nothing wrong with 
the car. No faults have been diagnosed.
Mr S has been involved  in several  accidents in the car which he feels  were caused by the 
issues hes described. The car was written  off following the last accident in December 2017 
and Mr S has been declined insurance on a new Motability car.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said there  was nothing to suggest that Mr 
S had reported any issues to Motability  until December 2017. She also said Mr S hadnt 
provided any evidence  to show that the car had a fault at the point of supply. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed complained to Motability about  the issues  on several 
occasions and hed also reported the issues to his insurance company each time hed had 
an accident. Mr S said it was unfair that none of his witnesses had been contacted because 
they could confirm that there was a fault with the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the information provided b y Mr S, including the statements from his witnesses. 
Ive also looked  at the information provided by Motability and by the garage.
Mr S says he told the garage about  the issues hed experienced with the car. The garage  
has said that in November 2015  Mr S reported  erratic gear changes  but that following testing 
of the car no faults were  found. Mr S has also said that he recalls the garage putting the car 
on the computer but finding no faults.
The garages notes  show that the car was serviced in March  2016 and March 2017. Mr S 
says he mentioned the issues  to the garage each time the car was serviced but theres 
Ref: DRN44864202nothing in the garages notes to suggest that the issues were  raised  or that further tests were  
carried out.
I believe Mr S when  he says he told the garage  about the issues he was experiencing. But 
on the available evidence, the garage tested for faults and found none.
Mr S says that all of his five accidents  were as a result of the issues  with the car. The 
Motability scheme insurers say that Mr S was found  to be at fault for each of the accidents. 
In order to uphold  this complaint I would need  to be satisfied that there  was a fault with the 
car which caused the accidents. I havent seen any information to persuade me that there  
was a fault with the car. The garage  tested the car for faults  and found none.  Mr S hasnt 
provided any persuasive evidence (for instance,  an independent engineers  report)  to show  
that the car had a fault.
It seems  more  likely  that the issues experienced by Mr S were as a result of his driving style. 
Ive noted that the car was fitted  with an EGC gearbox which  had options for both manual 
and automatic. With these  gearboxes you need to give the car time to respond to the gear 
change when you put it in automatic mode. It seems likely (based on what  Mr S has 
described) that the car didnt move forward immediately because  of this. And if Mr S was 
revving the accelerator to try and get the car to move forwards  this explains why the car shot 
forwards when the gear engaged.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, Im unable to conclude  that 
there was a point  of supply fault with the car. I cant say that Motability has dealt with the 
complaint unfairly  and I wont be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4486420