K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that, following repairs after a home insurance claim for water  
damage to AXA Insurance  UK Plc, that its contractors  damaged  some kitchen drawers.
background
Mr and Mrs F made a claim following a leak from pipes in a bedroom.  In the course of the 
work, the contractors had to access a radiator valve behind drawers  in the kitchen. 
Mr and Mrs F say that because of the rough way the contractors treated the drawers, they 
were damaged. As a result they cant now be closed properly. AXA investigated the matter 
and was advised by its contractors that they denied having damaged the drawers. AXA 
nevertheless decided to take a pragmatic view and offered  Mr and Mrs F £96.75 for the cost 
of the drawer  components. It said the drawers were of a standard  size and the components 
could be bought through a local DIY store for the amount offered. It asked Mr and Mrs F to 
let it know of any fitting cost. It pointed  out that Mr and Mrs F were unwilling in any event to 
have that contractor return. 
Mr and Mrs F werent happy  they feel it is AXAs responsibility to put things right.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that AXA had acted fairly in offering a 
cash settlement and that it wouldnt be reasonable to expect it to carry out the repairs. 
Mr and Mrs F were  unhappy with this and the matter has been  passed to me for further  
consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA consulted with its contractors who denied having caused  the damage.  And while  I 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs F say that the contractors did cause the damage,  I have  also 
looked at whether AXA offered a fair and reasonable resolution to the matter.
Mr and Mrs F would  be unhappy with the same contractors returning  to the property. And in 
any event as they deny causing  the damage, nobody can force  them to return.
I have to decide firstly whether its more likely than not that the contractors caused the 
damage. The contractors say they didnt and whilst I understand that Mr and Mrs F say they 
did, I simply cant say one way or the other. Its essentially one persons word  against the 
other with no other evidence. If Im unable to make a finding one way or the other, Im 
unfortunately unable to uphold any complaint.
Nevertheless I understand that AXA is willing to pay a cash  settlement for the cost of the 
repairs. I know that Mr and Mrs F feel that the repairs should be undertaken by AXA. But 
there is as Ive said a lack of clear evidence either way as to whether the contractors 
damaged the drawers. Coupled  with the fact that Mr and Mrs F dont want  the previous 
contractors to return I think  AXA has acted  in a reasonable way in offering Mr and Mrs F the 
cost of replacing the drawers.
So I cant uphold the complaint. If Mr and Mrs F want to accept AXAs offer they should 
approach it directly.
Ref: DRN47513572my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 August 2019
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4751357