K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly advised her to invest too much of her 
money in an unsuitably risky product in 2005,  and without time to consider the advice 
properly.
background
In 2005 Mrs K had £58,000 including £7,000 in a risk-based investment. Most of this came 
through the death of her first husband  and a subsequent house move. She was two years  
from the official retirement age. Barclays recommended she invest  £10,000 in a distribution 
fund and then five months later recommended a further investment of £15,000 in the same 
fund.
An adjudicator at this service  initially  felt her complaint should be partly  upheld on the basis  
that the first recommendation  was not unreasonable but that she should not have been 
advised to invest  more money in a risk-based product, particularly in the same fund.
After further consideration of the fund in question, he issued  a second view concluding that 
Mrs K should not have  been advised to put any money into the distribution fund, and outlined 
why he felt it posed more than the cautious risk that Mrs K had been looking for, according 
(as noted by the advisor).
Barclays did not agree, and said:
Mrs K would have received copies of the documents following the sales, had she 
been unhappy or unsure  of the content  or with the decision to start the investment 
she could have  raised any issues at the time with the advisor or not proceeded with 
the investment
Mrs K received returns over and above her invested sums  and had considerable 
excess funds so could  make  up any losses
She was not left with insufficient funds  and maintained the investment for more  than 
the recommended minimum  terms, indicating  she was happy with the advice 
received
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Firstly, in response to Barclays recent  comments,  Mrs K had very limited  investment 
experience  from what Ive read  and so while the documentation informed her about what 
shed agreed to this didnt  mean  she would have known whether this was good  advice or of 
the potential drawbacks to putting all her investable money in one product or this product in 
particular. If one accepts  Barclays arguments  that Mrs K could have raised  any concerns 
before going ahead then,  by definition, every  complainant ought  to have known if they  were  
given poor advice at the outset  and no complaint  would ever be upheld.
As a result of the second recommendation, Mrs K ended up with £32,000 of her £57,000 in 
risk-based products  close to 60% of her money.  Given her age, circumstances and likely 
objectives I am satisfied  this was unsuitable advice, and Ive seen no persuasive  evidence 
that the advisor fully apprised Mrs K of the potential consequences of exposing so much of 
Ref: DRN40377722her money to risk. I do not believe that the fact finds and suitability letters,  particularly the 
second one, demonstrate that the advisor took sufficient  steps  to fully assess  whether Mrs K 
was in a position to expose so much  of her money to risk or whether  she fully understand the 
potential implications of doing so.
I also share the adjudicators concern that she was recommended to invest all the money  in 
one fund. I have  considered  Barclays  evidence  that its advisor suggested  investing  in other 
products but, ultimately, he recommended £25,000  in the one fund  and I dont  believe this 
was sensible or appropriate.
During Mrs Ks second advice meeting  the advisor also recommended that Mr K, her future 
husband, invest £25,000 of his money  in the same fund. I think the advisor therefore had a 
particular responsible to offer her his expertise and experience about the dubious wisdom of 
putting all their assets in this one fund. If he had made clear the downside  of the proposed  
action I think Mrs K would, more likely than not, have not gone ahead  with the second 
recommendation.
I also share the adjudicators concerns about the advisors references  to Mrs K wanting to 
avoid the charges associated with the proposed  ISA. Ive seen  no evidence that he 
explained the fund would  also incur  comparable charges via another  means.
Further, I share the adjudicators concerns about the suitability of the recommended fund 
given it included a near 50% exposure  to equities plus a further 22% plus in sub-investment 
grade corporate bonds and property. Given Mrs K would  probably not have  fully understood 
the true risks posed  by these assets,  I think the advisor should  have  done  far more to make 
these clear, and explained that other,  more  cautious assets/funds were available. 
That said,  I dont believe the fund was necessarily completely unsuitable for a modest 
investment sum given  that it included a decent proportion in investment grade bonds.
I am satisfied that Mrs K was in a position to invest some of her available cash  and appeared 
willing to do so. I dont,  however,  think she should have been recommended to invest more 
than the original £10,000 sum in the specific fund, particularly after her future  husband had 
put £25,000 into this same  fund.
From what  Ive read, it is hard to say whether Mrs K should have been advised to keep the 
second chunk  of money (£15,000) risk-free or invested it in a different, clearly low risk 
product. This is because  I dont think the advisor  sufficient explored  Mrs Ks objective  at the 
time.
But, on balance, I feel it would have  been reasonable to recommend investing  the other 
£15,000 in a clearly  low risk fund,  with a mixture of assets providing a greater  security  and 
greater diversification.
I therefore instruct Barclays  to compare the return Mrs K received on the second £15,000 
investment with what this sum might have  grown  by using this services recommended low 
risk formula  known as 50/50. That is, an equal combination of the returns  shown by the Bank 
of England bonds of 12 to 17 months  maturity and those of the FTSE Private Investors Total 
Income Return Index.  If this comparison shows a loss, it should pay this figure and add 8% 
simple interest per annum from the date Mrs K surrendered  her investment to the date of 
settlement of the complaint.
Ref: DRN40377723Leaving aside the diversification  issue, I am satisfied this formula  contains a significantly 
higher percentage of risk-free  or very low-risk assets  than the distribution fund, and is 
therefore a fair and reasonable  basis for compensation.
It should also pay the £100  previously  offered and for the reasons previously outlined
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and instruct Barclays Bank  UK PLC to pay compensation as outlined 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4037772