K820x#14complaint
Mr K says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services  Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mr K bought the policy in 1998  after taking out a store  card in 1997. He applied for the         
PPI policy  during a phone call. Although Mr K has said that he was given a leaflet to fill in, 
its possible that hes referring to the sale of the store card as this PPI policy  was sold 
afterwards.  
At the time,  Mr K was employed as a decorator.  He has told us he was entitled to at least   
six months full sick from his employer. Hes also told us that he had a death  in service 
benefit and a redundancy entitlement. Mr K has said that his wife could also have helped 
him make his repayments. Mr K has told us about  medical conditions  he had before the time 
of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and life cover  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  15% of Mr Ks store  card balance  in the 
event of Mr K being unable to work  due to accident, sickness  and unemployment. 
The life cover would have paid off the outstanding account balance  in the unfortunate event 
of Mr Ks death.
The policy also provided purchase protection. Mr K hasnt complained about this element  of 
the insurance policy so I will not consider it further in this decision. 
At the time,  the policy cost no more than £1.00  per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance.  
The premium would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  
interest. 
Mr Ks representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully.                  
In summary,  Mr Ks representative says:
FICL  failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses                
on handling  PPI complaints under DISP  App 3, it should  be presumed Mr K wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ks representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
Ref: DRN44743622The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means FICL should  have  told 
Mr K about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means FICL should  have  explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr K and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr K received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a               
final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is,       
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ks. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs       
(and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct  rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not FICL. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act,                                    
the Supreme Court  judgment in Plevin  about  s.140 of that Act and the rules  and guidance  
made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission 
in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
Ref: DRN44743623There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales,                          
Direct Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
FICL was a member of the ABI and the seller   its agent  was acting as an intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992,  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, FICL was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code and     
its associated requirements.  The seller  but not FICL  was a member of the FLA            
and subscribed  to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller  (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of FICL. 
So I am satisfied it is right that I should take these codes into account when deciding  what  is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mr Ks case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional  advisers to 
give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of 
good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  I am also required to take into account what  
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,     
Ref: DRN44743624so FICL was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ks complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If FICL  gave advice, whether it advised  Mr K with reasonable care and skill                
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether FICL gave  Mr K sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr K,     
I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr K suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr K and FICL, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ks complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr K know  he had a choice?
FICL had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely than not that Mr K knew  the policy was 
optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
I say this because  when Mr K originally  applied for his store  card, he didnt opt to take out 
PPI. This suggests, in my opinion, that he knew it was an optional product.  The policy was 
taken out during a phone call a few months after the store card account had been  set up.     
So Im satisfied Mr K would have been aware that the PPI was separate to the store  card. 
Mr K says PPI wasnt discussed  with him but it seems he is recalling the sale of the store  
card rather  than the policy itself. And as he paid for the policy  for several months, I think that 
Mr K would reasonably  have questioned  the PPI with FICL  much  sooner than he did if it 
was something that he hadnt agreed  to. 
did FICL provide  advice?
Both Mr K and FICL  agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  FICL didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr K. Instead,  it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable Mr K to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting         
 in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN44743625the information
Due to the time thats passed since this sale, a call recording is not available   so I cant 
know for certain what was discussed.  
FICL has said that documentation  providing  details of the PPI would have been sent to        
Mr K following  the sale.
Looking at the documentation that was most likely  provided to Mr K at the time of sale or 
shortly after it, I dont  think FICL  gave Mr K the information he fairly and reasonably  needed 
to make an informed decision about  whether or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  over the phone. I dont know what FICL told Mr K about  the PPI but        
I think its unlikely he would have  agreed to take it out without at least  having a broad 
understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, accident,  sickness  and unemployment 
cover. And I think its unlikely Mr K would have thought it was free.
But it was FICLs responsibility  to draw to Mr Ks attention the important  information               
 i.e. the key information about  the nature of the cover and any significant exclusions       
and limitations which  might be relevant to his decision. 
I dont think its likely  FICL did enough to do this. For example, I dont think its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mr K, including the need to maintain premiums  during    
a claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition, its unlikely FICL adequately 
drew to his attention the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions.
So I dont  think FICL  gave Mr K sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions      
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in          
its guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ks representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ks. I have considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ks representative considers  to be         
poor value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr K about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ks representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
Ref: DRN44743626not to make  material misrepresentations. Whilst I cannot be certain  what a court would say  
I think it is unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Mr K has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry  codes and standards  
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair or 
reasonable to impose such requirements on FICL. 
what effect did FICLs shortcomings have on Mr K? To what extent  did Mr K suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that FICL did not do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr K.     
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude              
Mr K suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not    
Mr K would have still taken out the policy, had FICL done things properly. 
Mr K says he would  not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr K had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr K chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr K thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration             
when determining if Mr K has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, I think that its more likely than not that Mr K ought reasonably to 
have known he would have to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of 
his outstanding balance. But, I accept that FICL didnt make clear  the on-going  cost 
information. So whilst Mr K didnt  know some things, the ultimate position in the event of a 
successful claim  was not dissimilar to what he would reasonably have thought from the 
information he based his decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr K thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury 
which Mr K knew  about or ought  reasonably to have  known about  during the           
12 months before the start date, or for which Mr K had sought or received advice, 
treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months immediately before 
the start date;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr K be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  for which he may be qualified  or may 
reasonably become  qualified considering his training, education and ability; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr K 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
Ref: DRN44743627The cover  provided  by the policy  ended at the earliest of when, Mr K turned 65 or his 
earlier and final retirement,  whether or not voluntary.  
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mr K pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the 
policy was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided  not to proceed.               
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale,       
might have dissuaded some consumers  in slightly different circumstances from Mr K from 
taking out the policy.  
The evidence about Mr Ks circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr K says he had medical  conditions  when 
the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt  have  provided cover  had he needed time off 
work because of these  conditions,  I dont think better information  about this exclusion would 
have put him off agreeing  to it. 
I say this because,  based on what Mr K has told us about the conditions and their impact  on 
his life, I think that the chances of him needing  to claim for either condition were relatively 
low. I also think that its more likely than not that Mr K would still have wanted to be covered 
for all of the other  reasons  why he might be unwell and unable to work.  
And, I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mr K wouldve been caught  by any of the other  
significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
If Mr K had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his       
normal job and any other paid or profitable  job, which in the insurers  view he might be 
reasonably qualified or reasonably become qualified for considering  his training,         
education and ability, it might have played  into his thinking about what  he would have done.               
And I accept  it may have  given him pause for thought  although its possible he may not 
have been overly concerned given that if Mr K was unable (through  disability)  to carry on his 
own occupation the chances  that he would be able to take up any other job would also, in all 
probability, be limited.
I also accept back pain and mental  health  conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr K might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to         
Mr K from taking  out the policy,  in Mr Ks circumstances, he still had some good  reasons to 
take it out.
Mr K has complained that he reached  65 while the policy was in place  and he wouldnt 
have been able to claim on it at that point. But Mr K was 54 when he took out the PPI,         
so I think its more likely than not hed have thought hed still get some value out of having  
the PPI, as it would  have  covered him for a reasonable period of time before he turned 65. 
And the policy would  end when he turned 65 so he would  stop paying  for it at this time.  
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr K would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
Ref: DRN44743628difficult time, notwithstanding Mr Ks employment benefits and other means.                 
Although Mr K has said that he could have relied on his wifes help to make  his repayments, 
circumstances can change and she may not have been in a position to help when  needed. 
So I consider it more likely than not that he would have taken out the policy in any event.   
Mr Ks representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3)   
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable.    
Considering the purpose of the guidance,  I dont think it was ever intended  to be at odds  with 
the approach  I have  taken. 
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr K would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ks 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  he found  
himself in as result  of the sale was the same position he would have been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred. 
Mr K believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr K in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  whilst  I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,       
I am satisfied that of the two possibilities,  it is more  likely than not that he would still have  
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude that FICL should pay Mr K compensation, as that would put him 
in a better position  than he would have been in if everything had happened as it should  have  
done. 
Im also aware that Mr K thinks FICL  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
FICLs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why FICL failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  FICL gave  Mr K, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1998 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ref: DRN44743629Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ks representative says a court might take if it were 
to find FICL negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr K and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that FICL had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr K in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4474362