K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Miss R says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
When Miss R took out this PPI policy, Halifax sold a package of protection called 
Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). The PPI part of this package was called 
Mortgage Repayments Cover. There were  also other insurances available such as life or 
critical illness cover.
My decision  only deals  with the PPI element  of the cover as thats  what  was complained 
about. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Although copies of all the paperwork  completed during Miss Rs sale are no longer 
available, Ive considered example documents that Halifax  have told us would have 
been used around  the time this policy was taken out.
Ive not seen strong evidence that they wouldnt have  been used as part of this sales  
process. 
Miss R has said that she was led to believe that she had no option but to take PPI. 
Shes also said that Halifax advised  I should  take the PPI. I think  as this was a sale 
where Halifax were making  a recommendation to take PPI, that the Halifax adviser 
may have  said that Miss R should  take PPI. But this is very different to them saying  
that she had to take PPI. 
Ive also noted  that on Miss Rs mortgage  offer, dated 6 November 2002, theres no 
reference to PPI being a condition of the mortgage.   
On balance, I think that its more likely than not that Halifax  made it clear that Miss R 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss R so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Ive carefully considered  what Miss R has told us about her existing means of making 
her repayments. But this policy could have paid out for up to 24 months which  is for 
longer than Miss Rs sick pay would  have lasted. 
Ref: DRN46418282Ive also considered what Miss R has said about help from family and friends to make 
her mortgage repayments. Although Miss Rs family and friends may have wanted to 
help, they may not have been  in a position  to help when needed as circumstances 
can change.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Miss R has said - including what shes said about being  in 
good health at the time of taking out PPI. But nobody can accurately predict  what the future  
will bring and previous good health is no guarantee of future good health. Having this PPI 
policy would help protect Miss Rs financial position if she was to experience an unexpected 
change in her circumstances, such as her health  changing. So these points dont  change  my 
decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss R paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Miss R back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Miss R now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February  2019. 
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4641828