K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that the loan he was with Equifinance Limited is unaffordable and was mis-
sold to him. Mr R would  like to be able to repay the loan without the addition of interest  or 
charges.
background
Mr R took out a secured fixed sum loan agreement with Equifinance in January 2014  for 
£32,490. This was an agreement  regulated  by the Consumer Credit Act. The loan was sold 
to Mr R through a broker. Mr R had difficulty meeting  the payments and Equifinance got a 
suspended possession order in March 2016 but Mr R was able to pay the arrears.
Mr R believes  that when  he got the loan from Equifinance it didnt consider the affordability 
of the loan. It looked at the equity  that was in Mr Rs properties so that if Mr R defaulted it 
would be in a position to repossess those properties and benefit from Mr Rs weak financial 
position. 
Equifinance says that it looked  at the income and expenditure information dated  13 January 
2014 provided to it on Mr Rs behalf  which showed that the loan was affordable.  Equifinance 
also says that it offered  alternative products to Mr R that would have  reduced  the interest 
rate and the payments that he would have to make on his loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She noted that this 
was a sale through a broker and that any fault surrounding the advice given to Mr R to take 
out the loan should  lie with that broker. She also felt that Equifinance had reasonably  dealt 
with Mr Rs request for a reduction in the interest  rate and reduced payments. Mr R 
disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr R says that when he took out this loan with Equifinance it was unaffordable and it 
remains unaffordable. Mr R has also broadened this complaint to say that there  has been 
fraud in relation to the presentation of his accounts to Equifinance and also in relation to 
court documents related to its case against him. If Mr R has evidence of fraud he should  
report it to the relevant  authorities. We are a dispute resolution service  and not a criminal 
investigation service . 
In respect of the original loan, Mr Rs broker sent Equifinance an income and expenditure 
account showing that Mr R had a monthly  income  of £2,400  and expenditure of £1,764  
including the Equifinance loan. According  to this Mr R had a disposable income  of £676 and 
so on those figures Mr R could afford this loan. As I understand it Mr R appears to be saying 
that these werent  the correct figures. But they were  the figures presented to Equifinance on 
Mr Rs behalf and there is no evidence that Equifinance manipulated those figures. So, I 
cant say that Equifinance should have refused  Mr R the loan as unaffordable.  I also note 
Ref: DRN40623872that Mr R says that the loan paperwork is unclear but the copy documents  Mr R produced 
are clear  and legible so I dont uphold that part of the complaint. 
Mr R has since  had difficulty making the payments and asked Equifinace to consider lower  
payments. Equifinance has shown evidence of offering to reduce the contractual  monthly 
payments and interest rate in 2015. I note that one of these proposals would have put Mr R 
on another mortgage product and reduced  the monthly payment from £578.69 per month to 
£497.97. 
I further note that in March 2017,  Equifinance offered  to transfer  Mr R to another  mortgage 
product and reduce his monthly payments to £457.29. The evidence points to Equifinance 
making reasonable efforts to reduce Mr Rs monthly payments and respond to his financial 
difficulties. We would  expect Equifinance to be sympathetic to Mr Rs financial difficulties but 
it is still entitled to charge  interest and levy charges  in accordance with the agreement it has 
with Mr R. In order  to resolve this issue it would  seem reasonable for Mr R to engage with 
Equifinance to see if one of these arrangements can be agreed. But it doesnt appear to be 
the case that Equifinance has acted unreasonably  and so, I cant fairly uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4062387