K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd (the business) didnt inform him about  a 
rights offering by one of the stocks  that he held (ARYN). And because he didnt find out 
about it until after the rights had expired, he couldnt buy more shares so feels  hes been 
finically disadvantaged. 
In other  words, Mr S feels he shouldve been informed about the rights as he had money 
available and couldve  bought more shares. The business shouldve acted on his behalf to 
either purchase shares, or to sell them, instead of letting them go to waste.  
background
In May 2005, Mr S opened  a trading account with the business and in March/April bought 
ARYN shares. In August 2018, ARYN  announced  the rights  issue   with the intention  of 
raising 800 million Euros  whereby existing shareholders could access the shares  before  
the general public.  
On 1 October 2019, ARYN issued a public  statement outlining  the rights  issue with a 
deadline of 13 November 2019. Because Mr S wasnt  aware  of the rights  issue, he didnt 
exercise his right to purchase more shares. He blames the business for this and feels  like 
hes been financially  disadvantaged.   
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Although the business is a trading platform which allows individuals  to access  
numerous worldwide  markets  via trades which are made electronically  the 
business isnt authorised  to offer any advice to its clients.  
The customer agreement  which Mr S agreed  when he opened the account   
makes clear  that the business couldnt  act on its own initiative, without written 
instructions. So, it couldnt purchase or sell shares on his behalf. 
The business did try to inform Mr S of the rights  issue on three occasions after being 
notified of the action  by ARYN.
On 1 October 2018, ARYN made  a public announcement,  and on 7 November 2018 
the business used its internal message centre  to notify Mr S three  times   including 
the 13 November  2018 deadline  which gave Mr S reasonable amount of time to 
take action.    
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions.  In summary, he said:
He wasnt provided with a customer agreement and has no recollection of signing 
any agreement.  In any case, theres  nothing within  the agreement  to say that the 
business would let his rights expire leaving his shares valueless. 
He didnt open the platform during the period that the business had notified  him, so 
the business knew that he wasnt aware but still didnt  contact him via the phone.  
He also says that the emails didnt appear in his inbox.
In the circumstances the right thing to do wouldve been to act so his shares  didnt go 
to waste. 
He doesnt  feel like hes been treated fairly  by the business.  
Ref: DRN40756152The investigator, having considered the additional  points wasnt  persuaded to change  his 
mind. In summary, he said:
On 22 May 2005, Mr S electronically  signed  the agreement and had access  to the full 
document online. 
The business has reiterated that its an execution only platform and couldnt have 
second guessed  what Mr S wouldve done.  So, if it had taken any action on his 
behalf it wouldve  contravened  its own terms and conditions.
Whilst there were three options available with the ARYN corporate action:
otake up the rights issue and buy more shares
osell the rights 
oto let the rights, expire.  
The business doesnt agree that letting the rights expire will always result in loss, the 
results can be unpredictable. And deciding on behalf  of Mr S doesnt mean itll 
always be profitable. 
To act, as suggested by Mr S, wouldve been like giving advice which the business  
wasnt able to do. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions  and has asked  for an ombudsmans 
decision. He maintains that the business  actions make no sense at all, and if what the 
business did involve  tangible underlying assets   such as gold, corn or wheat  all would  be 
lost, if the business  didnt  sell before the end of the expiry  date.  No client  would knowing 
agree to these  terms or would be a feel for doing so, which  Mr S isnt. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reason, Im not 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that the business has done 
anything wrong  by not buying/selling shares without Mr Ss authority. Im also not satisfied 
that the business is responsible for any financial loss he may have suffered therefore. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ss strength of feeling about  this matter. 
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mr S and the business,  and reach what I think 
is an independent,  fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
Ref: DRN40756153decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened.   
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that Mr S agreed  to the terms and 
conditions of the business when  he opened the account in 2005.  If there  was anything that 
he didnt understand or required further  clarification  he couldve asked the businesses  or 
sought independent financial advice.  
The customer agreement says:
Customer is responsible for knowing the rights  and terms of any securities or options in 
Customers account including, but not limited to, corporate actionsand  neither  IBUK or its 
Affiliates has any obligation to notify  Customer of dates of meetings or to take any other  
action without specific written instructions that have been sent by Customer  to the IB 
Customer Service DepartmentThe consequence of Customers  failure to timely provide 
such instructions are entirely  the Customers own responsibility.  
The business made reasonably clear that Mr S was responsible for knowing the rights and 
terms of any securities or options, and the business wasnt  under  any obligation to notify him 
of any dates of meetings  or specific instructions already sent to its customer  service 
department. 
So, under its terms the business wasnt authorised to conduct trades on behalf of Mr S 
without his express authority, so couldnt  have bought and/or sold shares  on his behalf.  If it 
did so itd be in breach  of its own terms and conditions because  its actions wouldve been 
tantamount to advice.   
Despite its general  terms of agreement, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr S specifically 
requested the business to buy or sell shares  on his behalf if it didnt hear from him, if hed 
done so it couldve  taken account and still been within its overall terms and conditions.  
The above  notwithstanding, Im broadly satisfied that Mr S was notified  via the business 
internal message centre   of the rights  issue. I appreciate Mr S says he didnt receive any 
information in his inbox, but despite what he says Im satisfied that the relevant  emails were 
likely to have been sent and the information  was available for him to view online. 
If Mr S failed to read the messages online, I dont  think I can blame  the business for this. Im 
mindful that reminder messages  wouldve  also been sent. The business  wasnt obliged  to 
phone him if he didnt open  his inbox. It notified him and treated him in the same  way that it 
wouldve notified and treated all its other customers. Ive seen nothing  to suggest that Mr S 
specifically requested a phone  call  rather than an email  if there was news  relating to his 
shares or if his emails hadnt been read.  
 
In addition, it might also be said that Mr S ought  reasonably to have been  aware  of the public 
notice and take any necessary action, regardless of whether  (or not) his emails  had been 
read.  
Im unable to safely say that the business let Mr Ss rights expire  because  it wasnt  ultimately 
the business decision, because it simply didnt have  a mandate to act on his behalf or do 
anything else. On balance  Im satisfied it was Mr Ss inaction that led to shares not being 
sold/bought. 
Ref: DRN40756154I appreciate Mr S says that other businesses, in the absence of instructions,  wouldve 
bought/sold shares  at the very last moment. Whether this is right  and Im not sure that it is 
given that execution only businesses are unlikely  to behave like this  Im only considering 
the conduct if the business and not third-party  businesses.  
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr S instructed the business to act on his behalf  if it didnt 
receive any instructions  from him. And even if it did act  without his authority  theres no 
guarantee that it wouldve  benefitted  him financially.   
 
Im aware that Mr S doesnt  feel that what the business did makes any commercial  sense 
whatsoever. But if the business had bought or sold shares as suggested by Mr S, without his 
authority, and hed lost all his money,  I think its likely hed be blaming  the business.     
Whether or not the business was aware  of Mr S not opening the emails  although I think  its 
likely it wouldve been notified  by its system   there  was no way it wouldve known for sure 
that Mr S wasnt aware of the rights  issue given that a public announcement had been made. 
That said,  even if it was aware that Mr S hadnt opened his email, on balance I dont think  he 
was required to do anymore.  
I note in its most recent  response, the business  says that its policy  with regards  to corporate 
actions is firstly to provide  customers a platform to review upcoming voluntary  corporate 
actions and submit elections  via its corporate actions manager, and secondly, as a courtesy 
to provide customers with information which maybe of note with regards to the corporate  
actions. 
The business also says that its corporate  action notification is also consistent with its 
customer agreement.  It says:
Please know that notifications of upcoming and effective corporate actions are delivered  as 
a courtesy in an effort to provide information which we believe may be of note to our 
customers. All the information is supplied on a best-efforts basis and as such, IB cannot 
guarantee the timeliness nor accuracy  of the information. At times, terms of an offer may 
change without new information being  provided  to customers. It is customers responsibility 
to ensure they have reviewed all the corporate action terms with an external party,  such  as 
company websites or news  releases,  prior to making any trading  decision.    
I appreciate Mr S says he purchased the ARYN shares in March and April 2018  for the long 
term and didnt know that ARYN was going to make  an ordinary capital increase, in 
November 2018.  But for the reasons set out above Im unable to say that the business  didnt 
inform him about  the capital increase or the rights issues.  So in the circumstances Im 
unable to say that the business is responsible for any losses that might  arise. 
I appreciate Mr S will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate  his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business  to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what  
he wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.   
Ref: DRN40756155Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4075615