K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold Mr and Mrs D payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1992.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place about  27 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I 
wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered what  Mr and Mrs D have said. However, 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mr and Mrs D have said Nationwide told them they had to have PPI. However it wouldnt be 
fair for me to conclude  this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. 
Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, 
fairness requires that the person making the allegation presents evidence  that this probably 
did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require an individual or organisation to prove  they didnt do 
something, especially when it was such a long time ago. Without  stronger evidence,  I cant 
fairly say the PPI was added without Mr and Mrs Ds proper consent.  
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply:
I dont think Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D as being  particularly 
suited to their individual needs.  This means it didnt have to check  if the PPI fitted their 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mr and Mrs D to decide whether it was suitable.  
But, even if it had made a recommendation,  I think it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in their circumstances at the time.  Not being able to pay a mortgage  can 
cause significant  difficulties, and the PPI would have paid out in addition to any employer 
sickness and redundancy benefits,  and possibly for longer. And they dont appear to 
have had a large amount of savings.  So it would have  been potentially useful. 
Ref: DRN49133792Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy.  But 
I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Mr and Mrs D took the PPI.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. 
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have been  affected by any of these. And theyd be 
paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their 
situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4913379