K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  didnt cancel a standing  order.
background
Mr G had a monthly standing order for £400 to pay his rent. He says that early  in July 2018  
he had agreed  with his previous landlord  to change the payment schedule.  As a result  Mr G 
says he cancelled the standing order payment in branch on 30 July 2018. But HSBC still 
made the payment. 
Due to personal issues   Mr G says he didnt realise that the payment had been made for a 
few weeks. By the time he did, he realised that his account had gone into the overdraft to 
allow the payment  to be made. He said the error had caused him severe financial hardship  
for example he lost his accommodation.  It was also causing him stress as he had been 
signed off work.
He contacted HSBC and tried on several occasions to sort this out. He phoned and went into 
branch. On each occasion he was told by different staff that the money would be refunded 
into his account  within days but this didnt  happen.  
Mr G made  a complaint  to HSBC on 6 September. It investigated and said that Mr G had not 
cancelled the standing order, so it wasnt wrong  to pay the £400.  The bank advised Mr G to 
contact the landlord  directly to try and get his money back. However the bank paid £100 
compensation for its errors in incorrectly advising  him that the money would be refunded.
 
Mr G was unhappy and again asked for a refund of £400 plus additional  compensation for 
the poor service  and the lack of communication. He also said that while  his complaint was 
being investigated the bank had withdrawn his overdraft facility which would damage  his 
credit rating and also applied charges of £80 plus on his account.
The bank reviewed  the complaint and accepted that it had made errors in the first 
investigation. Along with the £100 compensation already paid it refunded the £400 as further 
compensation and waived  the overdraft charges. 
Mr G didnt accept this. He was unhappy  that it had taken the bank  seven weeks to resolve 
their mistake.  Mr G felt he should  get more compensation.  
The bank explained that the whole amount of £500  plus waiving of overdraft fees was being 
considered as compensation. In terms of the time it had taken to resolve  the complaint the 
bank explained  that it has up to eight  weeks and had done it in seven so were within the 
timeframe.  
Mr G was still unhappy and complained  to our service. Our investigator  felt that as HSBC  
had already upheld the complaint  he would only consider whether the level of compensation 
was fair. In all the circumstances  he decided that the amount of compensation was fair. Mr G 
did not accept  this so it has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN46651362The bank upheld  Mr Gs complaint even though it hadnt found  any record that the standing  
order had been  cancelled. Neither Mr G nor the bank could get the landlord to return  the 
payment. Because of the incorrect information  given to Mr G that the money  would be 
refunded and the inconvenience caused, HSBC  offered Mr G compensation. On top of its 
initial £100 HSBC  paid a further £400  to refund the standing order, plus it waived fees and 
charges. This seems like a very fair offer.
Mr G doesnt feel that the £100 compensation is sufficient for all the inconvenience, financial 
problems and stress caused by the banks  error.  I appreciate that when the standing  order  
was paid it resulted  in him becoming overdrawn and he couldnt meet  future rent payments 
so he lost his accommodation.  He also couldnt  meet everyday living expenses and was 
signed off work for stress.  This must have been  very distressing for him. 
But without clear evidence that HSBC had failed to follow Mr Gs instruction to cancel, I dont 
think it was unreasonable that it didnt refund the payment here. The usual process is to 
apply to the recipient or their bank for a refund. This couldve  taken quite some time.  Instead 
once the complaint was upheld HSBC apologised to Mr G and refunded  the £400. This took 
only two weeks. Additionally it refunded charges linked  to the overdraft.
HSBC has recognised that the arrears caused  Mr G a great  deal of financial  difficulties  at a 
difficult time. It wanted to compensate for this. Although Mr G doesnt seem to accept  it I 
think that HSBC has refunded  the standing order and paid him sufficient compensation along 
with the waiving of the fees. In all the circumstances I think this is fair and recognises the 
problems and distressed caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019
Constantia Pennie  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4665136