K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds decision to turn down 
his claim for legal expenses cover  under his Residential Property Owners Insurance  policy.
All references to LV include  its claims handlers.
background
Some years  ago Mr H released equity on his rental property to fund litigation. He says his 
legal representatives  didnt agree the trial bundle properly and provided him with incorrect 
advice. As a result Mr H says he agreed  to settle  the case but was later told the case  could 
have been adjourned  if the solicitors  had done  what they were supposed to. 
In January this year Mr H contacted LV to make  a professional negligence claim against his 
solicitors. It said the claim didnt fall within the property disputes section of his policy  as it 
was a claim for professional negligence against  his solicitors. And it wasnt covered under 
any other section of the policy  either.  
Mr H didnt agree. He said the equity released  from his property was used to fund the court  
case. And as a result he was now at risk of losing that property. So he believed his claim 
should be considered under the property disputes  section of the policy which  he said 
covered any dispute  relating to physical  possession of property. 
Our investigator didnt  agree. She said although  the alleged  negligence  might  have led to the 
situation he found himself in the claim Mr H was making wasnt  for physical possession of 
his property. It was a claim against the solicitor for professional negligence. And that wasnt 
covered under the policy.
Mr H disagreed. He said the policy covered any dispute regarding  the physical possession  of 
property and in this case the only way he could stop his property being repossessed was 
through pursuing a negligence claim against the solicitors. And there was nothing in the 
policy that excluded  a claim for professional  negligence. So I need  to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive thought first about whether Mr Hs claim  should be covered under the property disputes  
section of his policy  as hes argued. 
The policy terms in relation to this say:
Sub-Section A  Property Disputes
The Insurer agrees to indemnify the Insured against Legal  Expenses incurred in any 
dispute or legal  proceedings  made by or brought against the Insured
The terms go on to set out the different scenarios in which cover might be provided. Mr H 
has argued his claim falls within the first of these which  provides cover:
Ref: DRN44885882a)over the physical possession of the Property provided that where appropriate  all 
statutory and contractual noticed  have been  correctly served by the Insured on the 
Tenant
Mr H says this means the policy should  provide cover in respect of the physical possession  
of the property. And the reference  to notices being served on a tenant only applies where  
appropriate. That isnt the case in relation to the claim  hes making. 
However, even if Mr H is right about that, to be considered under this section at all hed need 
to have demonstrated the claim  he was trying to make was about a property dispute. I dont 
think he has. I do accept  that if hes unsuccessful in his negligence  claim there could be 
implications for his ability to retain his property. But the claim hes seeking to bring  against  
the solicitors (and which he wants LV to fund)  doesnt relate to a dispute about that property. 
Its a negligence  claim which in itself has no direct relationship to Mr Hs property and exists  
independently of it. 
I understand Mr Hs argument about the linkages between these matters  but I dont think 
theres a close enough  relationship say the claim hes making  could reasonably be classed 
as a property  dispute.  If Mr H didnt have a property the claim against the solicitors  would  still 
exist. As a result I dont think LV has acted unreasonably in saying his claim isnt a property 
dispute and so isnt covered by the property disputes section of the policy. 
In any case even if it was I dont think it would be covered anyway.  Thats because the 
property disputes  section of the policy contains an exclusion which says 
The Insurer shall not be liable to indemnify the Insured in respect  of Claims  arising out of 
or in connection with
g) a contract dispute other than where the contract is a Tenancy  Agreement
I think its clear  the claim Mr H is trying to make  does arise out of a contract dispute because 
it relates a claim for professional negligence arising  out of his agreement with the legal 
professionals who dealt with his case.  Hes argued the policy  only specifically excludes 
claims relating to breach of professional duty which relate to the defence  of such  claims. I 
agree that is what it says.  But I think its clear the above term in any event excludes contract 
disputes other than those  relating to tenancy  agreements. Mr Hs claim arises from a 
contract for services that he entered into with his solicitors  and it doesnt  relate  to a tenancy 
agreement. So it isnt something this section of his policy  covers. 
Ive looked at the other sections of his policy but I dont think the claim hes making would be 
covered under any of those either. So, overall, I think LV acted fairly in turning this down. Im 
sorry to bring Mr H what I know  will be disappointing  news. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4488588