K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Motor Depot Limited (Motor Depot) mis-sold her a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs M was sold a PPI policy in 2007 in connection  with a hire purchase  agreement during a 
meeting.
The PPI would have  provided a monthly benefit  if Mrs M was off work  due to accident or 
sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. Mrs M didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint. I appreciate  that Mrs M will 
be disappointed  by this outcome but it is of course  for Mrs M to decide  whether or not to 
accept or reject my decision. I will now explain why I have come to this outcome.
Motor Depot had to make it clear  to Mrs M that the PPI was optional  and needed her 
consent before it could  be applied to the account.   Mrs M says she was told she had to take 
PPI in order to be approved for the credit due to her age and marital status. If she hadnt 
been told this she says she wouldnt have taken out the PPI as it was an additional 14% she 
had to pay and she had sufficient existing repayment provisions in place to meet  the 
repayments.  
Of course I cant  know for sure what took place during  the sale.  So Ive thought  about what 
Mrs M has told us and have considered the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decide what is more  likely  to have happened.
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the hire purchase agreement. Within this document  there is 
a section for PPI. I note that Mrs M would  have been presented  with an option  as to whether 
to take PPI. If she wanted to take PPI then the box to take PPI needed to be ticked. I can 
see that the box to take PPI has been  ticked.  Mrs M says that the tick is not hers. However, 
even if the representative actually ticked the box rather  than Mrs M, I think, given  that the 
PPI was sold in a meeting, this would have  been  done on Mrs Ms instructions.  I note that 
Mrs M also signed to take PPI and would have had the opportunity to check the accuracy of 
information. And I note Mrs Ms name appeared as the person to be insured in addition  to 
the tick. 
In any event Mrs Ms argument is that she was made to take PPI out. Ive considered this 
carefully, but there is nothing in this document  which  suggests  PPI had to be taken out in 
Ref: DRN41274542order to get credit  it was described as optional  and presented  as optional - and I cant see 
what difference Mrs Ms marital status  and age made to this particular application.
So while I appreciate what Mrs M has told us, from the evidence available to me, I cant say 
that its more likely that Mrs M was told she had to take PPI to get the credit. I think PPI was 
presented as optional and was only added to Mrs Ms account  because she agreed to take it 
out.
I appreciate that being told she couldnt get the credit without PPI is Mrs Ms main  complaint 
point but as I have  not upheld Mrs Ms complaint in relation to this point, Ive looked at other  
elements of the sale to check if there  is any other reason the policy may have been mis-sold. 
First of all Ive considered whether Mrs M was eligible under the policy. This means  looking 
at if there was anything  that would have prevented Mrs M from being  able to make claim 
under the policy  from the outset. Based on Mrs Ms age and employment (amongst other 
things) at the time of the sale, Im satisfied she would have been eligible.
It appears Motor Depot advised  Mrs M to take PPI. This means  they had to check  it was 
suitable for her. I dont know  if Motor Depot  took all the steps they should have to check if 
the PPI was suitable for Mrs M but I do think the policy  was suitable for her. I say this 
because:
-Mrs M has told us that she was entitled  to some sick  pay from her employer.  
However, the PPI would  have  paid out in addition to this and potentially likely have 
done so for a longer  period of time.  And while I appreciate Mrs M says she was living 
at home  with her parents at the time of the sale with no other  monthly outgoing 
responsibilities, circumstances can change and ultimately the repayments were her 
responsibility alone so  I dont think her living circumstances meant the PPI was 
unsuitable for her.
-I havent seen  any evidence which suggests Mrs M would have been affected  by the 
terms in the policy  which  would have made it difficult for her to make a successful 
claim under the policy. For example, terms relating  to unusual working arrangements  
and pre-existing medical conditions.
-The cost of the PPI was set out clearly  in the hire purchase agreement and even 
though Mrs M explains that she had to pay 14% extra  for PPI, I havent seen any 
evidence which suggests the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs M.
-Mrs M could have  cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially if she 
no longer wanted or needed it.
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable  for Mrs M, Motor Depot also had to give her 
clear information about the PPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions 
in the policy   so that she could make an informed decision about  whether or not to take it 
out.
Its possible the information Motor Depot gave  Mrs M wasnt as clear as it should have been  
but this in itself doesnt mean  the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put her off taking it out. And I dont  think  it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for her.
Ref: DRN41274543So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think Motor Depot mis-sold Mrs M this 
PPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Motor Depot Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4127454