K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that ReAssure Limited  made  a number  of errors which led to a payment 
from his pension being made  late. He says this has resulted in him paying more tax than he 
should have, and has also ruined his plans, as he cant now take any further  payments from 
his pension. 
background
On 14 February 2018 Mr M contacted ReAssure and explained  that he wanted to withdraw 
60% of the value  of his pension fund.  His plan was to withdraw 60% of his pension in the 
2017/2018 tax year and the remainder  in the following tax year, as he wanted to spread the 
tax across two years  to avoid paying the higher rate and expected his income in 2018/2019 
to be higher than it was in 2017/2018. Mr M says hed first contacted  ReAssure about this in 
September 2017 and had been told he should contact it six weeks  before  the end of the tax 
year to start the process. 
On 15 February 2018 ReAssure sent Mr M the two forms he needed  to complete for the 
withdrawal to happen. It received the forms back on 6 March  2018. But there was a problem. 
Mr M had dated one form 2017,  rather than 2018,  and had not completed the other form.  
On 8 March 2018 ReAssure  wrote  to Mr M. Its letter said:  
Thank you for returning your Lump sum forms.
Before we can proceed we require you to complete the Declaration which was previously 
sent to you but not completed. Once  we receive  the declaration complete, we will process 
your request .
Mr M then called ReAssure on 12 March 2018 to ask what  it needed. He was told at this time 
that everything was fine and nothing else was needed from him. An internal note records  
that the member  of staff Mr M had spoken to instructed ReAssures  back  office to proceed 
with the payment. 
On 15 March 2018 there is a note of ReAssure  trying to contact Mr M by phone, as it 
couldnt proceed with the payment. It sent a letter to Mr M on the same  day which said:  
Thank you for your enquiry.
We have been-trying to contact you but have  been unsuccessful. I can confirm that the
outstanding form which has been  sent to you on 08 March 2018  is the declaration for the
Small Pots Lump sum (Form B). I believe there  has been some confusion.
I can confirm we have  received  the declaration of lifetime allowance  (Form  D) completed
but the Form B is still outstanding.
We trust this information is satisfactory.  If you need  any further information, then please
contact our Client Services  Department
Mr M then called ReAssure on 19 March 2018 and said he thought  he had sent it everything, 
as thats what hed been told. ReAssure said Form  B was still outstanding and emailed Mr M 
Ref: DRN40769522a copy of the form on the same day. ReAssure  received the completed form on 23 March  
2018. 
Mr M called ReAssure on 29 March  2018 to ask when  the payment would be made.  He was 
told it would  be made in the 2017/2018  tax year as, for tax reporting purposes,  ReAssure  
used the day after it received the forms. 
ReAssure sent Mr M a letter on 5 April 2018  confirming the payment had been made to him. 
It then wrote to Mr M again  on 20 April 2018,  following an enquiry from him, to confirm that 
the payment had been made in the 2017/2018 tax year. 
In May 2018  Mr M contacted ReAssure again, as hed received a P45 showing the payment 
had been made in the 2018/2019 tax year. On 4 June 2018 Re Assure  wrote  to Mr M to say 
the payment had been made in the 2018/2019 tax year as it did not leave it until 6 April 
2018. So what he had been told previously was incorrect. This prompted  Mr Ms complaint. 
ReAssure upheld Mr Ms complaint, on the basis that it had given him incorrect information. 
But it did not think it was at fault for the payment  being made in the 2018/2019  tax year.  It 
thought that was due to Mr M returning  the forms too late. It offered him £250 for the upset 
caused, and said if he returned the payment to it, it would reconstruct his pension to put it in 
the position it would be, had the payment not been  made. Mr M was unhappy with this 
response, so came  to us. 
Our investigator looked into things, and concluded the complaint  should be upheld.  He said,  
in summary:
He understood  ReAssure required  15 working  days to process a request  for a 
withdrawal. He did not think this was unreasonable. 
But he thought,  if ReAssures letter of 8 March  2018 had been  clear about what  Mr M 
needed to do, the forms would have reached  ReAssure  in enough time. 
So he did not think ReAssures offer was fair. He thought ReAssure should pay the 
additional tax Mr M had to pay, or report an error to HMRC, so Mr Ms tax position  
could be corrected. 
ReAssure did not accept this view. It said it took Mr M four days to return  the correct form, 
once he knew he needed to do so. And that it thought  Mr M would have contacted  it on 12 
March 2018 to ask questions  even  if its letter of 8 March 2018  had been  clear. On this basis,  
it said the forms would not have been with it within 15 working days of the tax year. 
Mr M said he would accept  the view as he wanted  to move on, but also felt he should make 
some further  comments. He said, in summary:
ReAssure did confirm  twice that it had all the paperwork  in and the payment would be 
made  in 15 days 
The investigator has ignored the flights back to the UK he had to take to get this 
paperwork in in time. 
He and his wife were  going to buy a small house in Wales  but that plan is now 
ruined.  
Ref: DRN40769523£250 is a very low sum for all the sleepless  nights and worry this has caused. 
The investigator was not minded to change his view, so the complaint has been referred to 
me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I think  the background summary  above demonstrates,  ReAssure has made a number of 
mistakes here. Firstly,  its letter  of 8 March 2018  did not clearly explain to Mr M what  he 
needed to do, after he put the wrong date on one of the two forms he needed to complete 
and failed to complete the other (later described  as Form B). The letter makes no mention of 
the incorrect date on one of the forms, and refers only to an uncompleted declaration, 
without explaining what this means.  It was not fair to expect Mr M to have  known what  he 
needed to do to correct things, upon  receipt of that letter. 
If ReAssures  letter of 8 March 2018 had clearly explained what mistake  Mr M had made and 
what he needed to do to correct it, like the investigator, I think  it more  likely than not that 
Mr M would done what he needed  to, and done it promptly.  All ReAssure needed  to do was 
to send a fresh set of forms to Mr M and tell him that a) he needed  to complete both fully and 
b) he should be careful to put the correct dates on both. 
I note ReAssure thinks Mr M would still have contacted it on 12 March  2018 even if its letter  
had been clear. But it has not said why it thinks this. And I see no reason why Mr M would 
have contacted it again had he been  written to in the terms described above.  He was keen to 
ensure the payment was made promptly, and I think a letter in these terms would have left 
him in no doubt  about what he needed  to do
I therefore consider  it more likely  than not that all the paperwork ReAssure needed to 
proceed would have been with it on time i.e. within the 15 working days  it says it needed to 
process the payment request. That meant  the completed forms needed to be with it by 14 
March 2018. As Mr M got the forms to ReAssure within  4 days  of him eventually getting  the 
form he needed to complete  (the form was sent on 19 March  and received by ReAssure on 
23 March) I am satisfied  hed have got the forms to it on or before 14 March, had the 8 
March letter  been  written in appropriate  terms. 
So, but for ReAssures  mistake, I am satisfied that the payment  would  have been  made  in 
the 2017/2018 tax year.  I am also satisfied that Mr M would then have proceeded to 
withdraw the remainder  of his pension in the following tax year, as that was his plan  
although I understand his plans have since changed. 
ReAssure also made further mistakes. I think these caused Mr M considerable trouble  and 
upset. It assured him it had what it needed,  when  it didnt. And it repeatedly  misled  him 
about the tax treatment  of the payment. I think these mistakes, along  with the failure  to send 
an appropriate letter on 8 March 2018  led to Mr M having to make  several  contacts with 
ReAssure which he would  not otherwise have had to make.  I also think  they gave Mr M an 
expectation of being able to access all his pension money (and I note he and his wife had 
begun making  plans about  how to use the money), and resulted in him getting  a tax liability 
he had been led not to expect. 
Ref: DRN40769524I appreciate Mr M also says he had to pay for flights back to the UK to sort things out, as a 
result of ReAssures mistakes. But I dont think it would be fair to ask ReAssure to pay Mr M 
compensation for this as he appears  to have dealt with it by phone  and email  so I do not 
think he had to come back to the UK as a result of ReAssures mistakes.  
So, in summary,  I think if things had gone  as they should have Mr M would have paid less 
tax and he would not have suffered the significant  amount  of trouble and upset he has. I 
have therefore  considered  what is fair compensation for this. 
fair compensation
Like the investigator, in terms of the tax, I think ReAssure should first speak to HMRC to see 
if the reporting date can be changed,  as it was later than it ought to have been as a result of 
ReAssures mistakes. If HMRC will agree to this, I think  it fair to assume Mr Ms tax position  
will be changed to reflect the position he would be in, had the payment been made in the 
2017/2018 tax year. But ReAssure should pay Mr M interest, at the rate of 8% simple, on 
any tax refunded by HMRC from the date the tax was originally paid to the date of the 
refund, to compensate Mr M for him being kept out of pocket of this amount over the relevant 
period. In the event HMRC pays Mr M any interest, the amount of interest ReAssure has to 
pay can be reduced accordingly. 
If HMRC wont agree  to change the reporting date then ReAssure should pay any additional 
tax Mr M has had to pay as a result  of the payment  being made  in the 2018/2019 tax year, 
rather than the 2017/2018 one. Mr M should provide  ReAssure with everything it needs to 
carry out a comparison  between his actual tax position and the one he would have, had the 
payment been  made in the 2017/2018 tax year. If Mr M has paid more  tax interest, at the 
rate of 8% simple should be added to the amount of the additional tax, from the date it was 
paid to the date ReAssure  pays compensation. 
I appreciate Mr M had planned  to withdraw the remainder of his pension  early in the 
2018/2019 tax year. But he has recently  told us he has left it invested and may now withdraw 
money from another small  pension in the upcoming tax year. In these circumstances, I dont 
think it would  be fair to ask ReAssure  to pay any additional compensation for Mr M being  
kept out of the money he might have withdrawn, as his plans have now changed, and the 
money has remained invested. But I think the upset  caused by Mr M having  to change his 
plans does need to be considered. And I dont think the £250  ReAssure has offered is 
sufficient compensation  for the significant trouble and upset Mr M has suffered overall. I 
think an amount of £500 is fair, in the circumstances. So ReAssure should  pay that amount. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold the complaint. ReAssure Limited should take the steps I 
have set out above, and calculate and pay compensation as required. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40769525
Ref: DRN4076952