K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  about  mistakes  Eldon  Insurance Services Ltd made on his commercial 
insurance policies.  
Background
Mr L took out three policies with Eldon  vehicle insurance, goods in transit  and public 
liability. He decided to pay for these by instalments and three  loans were  provided by a 
separate finance company, which he had to pay back in instalments.  He provided his bank  
details for the direct  debits to be set up to do this to Eldon.  
There was a problem  with the direct  debit payments because the bank details  were  wrong. 
Mr L complained to Eldon about  this and they checked and found  hed provided the wrong  
bank details. So, they didnt think his complaint about this was justified. But they did accept 
they could have handled his complaint  about this more efficiently and paid him £50 in 
compensation in recognition of this. 
Mr L called  to change  the vehicle insured. Eldon made this change,  but forgot to change it 
on the breakdown  cover  linked to the vehicle insurance policy.  Mr L broke down  and hes 
said he spent over an hour trying to sort this out with the breakdown  company. He said this 
meant he was stuck on the side of the road for much longer than should have been the case 
and he got flu and had two days off work as a result. He asked Eldon to waive  the charge for 
the change of vehicle and to cover the two days wages  he lost. Eldon investigated and 
agreed theyd made an error, but it would only pay Mr L £25 in compensation. 
Mr L wasnt happy and came to us. Our investigator didnt think  the problem with the direct  
debit was Eldons  fault, as Mr L had given  them  the wrong bank details. But she felt Eldon  
should pay Mr L an extra £75 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience  he 
experienced as a result of the problems he had with the breakdown  company, which was 
due to Eldons  error. 
Mr L eventually accepted this outcome. But Eldon dont agree and have asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. Theyve pointed out theres  no evidence other than Mr Ls testimony  
that he spent over an hour on the phone to the breakdown company as a result of their error. 
And without  further  evidence, they dont think the extra £100 is justified. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with our investigator that the problems with the payments  werent  Eldons fault. Its 
not clear why Mr L gave  the bank details he did, but they were  wrong.  And this must  be why 
there were problems with the payments. So theres  no reason why Eldon should  pay 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience he experienced with these. 
I can see Eldon paid Mr L £50 in compensation for some problems when they were  handling  
his complaint about this. And I think that is an appropriate amount for the distress  and 
inconvenience Mr L experienced.  
Ref: DRN41561702At my request, our investigator asked Mr L to provide more information  and evidence  about 
what happened when  he called the breakdown company. But Mr L hasnt provided this. In 
view of this, it is hard for me to know how much  of the time he waited for the breakdown 
companys operative  to come out was down to the fact Eldon  hadnt updated his vehicle 
details and how much  was down to how busy the breakdown company were at the time. 
In the circumstances, Ive got no reason to find that the £25 Eldon has already  paid as 
compensation for the problems Mr L experienced when he broke down is unreasonable.  
Therefore, I dont think its appropriate for me to make Eldon pay any more.  Our investigator 
has already explained to Mr L that I may not award the extra  £75 in compensation she 
suggested and Mr L hasnt responded on this point either. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that what  Eldon Insurance  Services  Ltd 
have already paid Mr L in compensation for distress  and inconvenience as a result of the 
issues Ive mentioned above is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4156170