K822xcomplaint
Ms D complains about Amtrust Europe  Limiteds handling of her claim made  under her motor 
legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Amtrust,  this includes their agents and claims handlers.
Ms D has been helped with her complaint  by a representative. But for ease of reading  Ill 
refer to all submissions as having  come  from Ms D herself. 
background 
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary here. In August 2015 Ms D was involved in a road traffic accident which 
caused her injury. As an add-on to her motor insurance policy she had cover for certain  legal 
expenses which was provided by Amtrust. 
Amtrust initially  accepted  the claim and a solicitors  firm M took on her case  under the 
policy. They  put offers made by the third party to Ms D. On 1 November 2016 an offer from 
the third party  to accept  50/50 split liability was put to Ms D. M recommended that the offer 
be accepted. 
Contact was made with Ms D again  on 21 April 2017 asking for her instructions with regard 
to acceptance  of the offer. On 22 May 2017 Amtrust  wrote to Ms D and acknowledged that 
she had rejected the third partys liability offer, and because of that M would no longer be 
able to represent her. 
Ms D then entered into a Conditional Fee Agreement (CFA-  No Win No Fee) with a solicitor  
T. In January 2018 T wrote to Ms Ds motor  insurance provider, explained that they now 
represented Ms D and asked that they cover  disbursements in relation to her claim. They  
explained that their solicitor thought  her claim was of high value and had very good 
prospects of success.  The enquiry  was referred to Amtrust.
Amtrust said they would  need Ms Ds consent  for M to release their file so they could 
investigate further.  On 21 February  2018 Amtrust received a copy  of Ms file from T. In 
March 2018 Amtrust said they couldnt  investigate the complaint  as Ms D hadnt consented 
to M sending  them  their file. Ms D provided that consent in April 2018  and ultimately  in June 
2018 Amtrust said they wouldnt  provide  any further cover under the policy. They  said that 
Ms D had breached  the terms of her policy by failing to co-operate. Being unhappy  with this 
response the matter  was referred to our service.
One of our investigators  thought the complaint should be upheld. Amtrust disagreed and so 
the complaint  came  to me for a decision.  I initially came to a different conclusion  compared 
to our investigator. So in November 2019 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold this 
complaint in part. 
The relationship between all the parties involved in a claim can be complex. I can only 
consider the acts or omissions of Amtrust and their agents. Its common  for large  insurers  to 
Ref: DRN41400462have other  businesses handle claims on their behalf, and this is whats  happened  in Ms Ds 
case. M are a firm of solicitors, but also handle  claims on behalf of Amtrust.  
So when M were acting as claims handlers, they were doing so as an agent of Amtrust, and I 
can therefore consider  their actions. When acting as solicitors, they were doing  so on behalf  
of Ms D who was their client. And they would  be subject to their own regulator and the Legal 
Ombudsman. 
Ms Ds policy  provides cover for the type of claim  Ms D wanted to make  but it also says:
You must co-operate with the Solicitor including giving such  instructions as We require
I acknowledge that Ms D wasnt responding promptly to requests for instructions from M. But 
she did eventually provide instructions as referenced in Ms letter  dated 22 May 2017 which 
said I acknowledge  your instructions to reject the other partys 50/50 liability  offer.
The letter went on to say As you are aware  rejection  is against  the advice of [M] because 
we feel there  is a real risk that a judge  may settle  your claim on this basis if your claim 
proceeded to trial [M] can therefore no longer represent you in this matter.
I dont think Amtrust were unreasonable to withdraw  cover at that point. Amtrust themselves 
arent legal professionals.  So I think  its reasonable  for them to rely on Ms legal advice when 
making decisions about a claim, unless that advice is obviously wrong. And whilst I 
appreciate Ts comments about the quality of that advice, I dont think it was so obviously 
wrong that I would expect  a layperson to identify that. And Im satisfied the advice was 
provided by a suitably  qualified  person. So overall,  I think that Amtrust acted in line with the 
policy terms when they removed any further  cover  as a result  of Ms D failing to follow Ms 
advice to accept  the liability  offer. 
However, when Ms D re-approached  Amtrust they didnt reconsider the claim. T presented 
on Ms Ds behalf a far more positive picture. They confirmed  they believed  there  were  
reasonable prospects of success and that the claim was by February 2018 already valued at 
around £75,000 for loss of earnings alone.  
I accept Ms D had previously breached some conditions of the policy.  But I still would have 
expected Amtrust to have reconsidered the circumstances  of Ms Ds claim and the 
information being provided by her solicitor. This is particularly the case as the circumstances 
of cover being removed  centred on Ms Ds failure to follow the legal advice being  given by 
M. But now, she was presenting herself with new legal advice which  conflicted  what  shed 
previously been  told. I think  the fair thing  to have done would have  been  to look again at the 
claim. And if there were evidence of prejudice being caused or other  reasons why it still 
shouldnt be covered, that could have been explained. 
Ive gone on to consider what I think would have happened if Amtrust had reconsidered the 
claim at that point. I think its most likely  that if Ms D wanted to benefit from cover  under  her 
policy, Amtrust  would  have asked T to accept their non-panel terms. These  commonly 
involve agreeing not to charge a success fee, to accept  the insurers  hourly panel rate and to 
commit to keeping the insurer updated on the case.
But by the time Amtrust were approached by T, Ms D had already entered into a Conditional 
Fee Agreement (CFA)  with them. Indeed Ts initial letter said:
Ref: DRN41400463Ms D has signed a no win no fee agreement with this firm and she is quite happy to receive 
compensation only if she is right We, as her solicitors, are happy to receive payment only 
in the event of Ms D succeeding, but Ms D has the need to provide funds for disbursements  
as and when they are incurred. 
I dont think its likely  that T would have been appointed on panel terms as there was already 
a CFA in place  between them and Ms D and both parties were happy with its terms. And the 
evidence from the letter written at the time supports this. 
But I do think Amtrust  could have responded more promptly in 2018. I appreciate there  was 
a delay in Ms D proving her consent for the release of her files from M. But M, as claims 
handlers, are an agent of Amtrust. So I dont think her consent was needed for this 
information. And the parts of the file which  related  to Ms legal  work  were provided to 
Amtrust by T in February 2018.  So overall, I think Amtrust ought to have been in a position to 
respond far sooner than they did. Amtrust  insisted  on Ms D providing her consent in April 
and then provided a response in June 2018. 
I think the delay  in doing so would have caused further distress and inconvenience to Ms D 
at what was already  a difficult time.  And to make up for the impact  of this, I think  a fair and 
appropriate amount  of compensation would be £200. 
I understand this might  not be the outcome Ms D was hoping for. But as Ive explained 
above, Amtrust are entitled to rely on suitably qualified legal advice when making decisions 
about a claim. If Ms D is dissatisfied with the quality of that legal advice, there  are other  
options for her to pursue.  But the quality of the legal advice isnt something Amtrust are 
responsible for and so isnt something  I can comment on. I think  the claim was fairly declined  
and once Ms D re-approached  Amtrust  I dont think she and her solicitor would have agreed 
to disregard their CFA and accept the panel  terms.
Amtrust responded  to my provisional decision and said that they had nothing  further to add. 
Ms D responded and agreed with much  of my provisional decision. But disputed that the 
non-panel terms would have been unacceptable  for T. So these terms were shared with T 
who confirmed that if the claim had been accepted and these  terms offered, they would have 
accepted them at the time.
I reconsidered and went back  to both parties  explaining that I accepted what  T had said.  So I 
now thought that the compensation should remain as above, but a fair resolution  would  be 
for the claim to be reconsidered against the remaining terms of the policy  on the basis of the 
information available on 9 January 2018. And that if the claim is accepted and Ms D and T 
agree to the non-panel  terms of appointment  then cover should be backdated to that date 
(9 January 2018). Amtrust accepted this.
Ms D responded and asked that in the event of cover being put in place that it only be 
backdated to 6 December 2019,  rather than to 9 January 2018. I put this proposal to Amtrust 
who again agreed. Both parties  requested that this outcome  be formalised in a final decision 
 which  Ill now do.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN41400464I maintain that it would have been fair and reasonable for Amtrust to have reconsidered 
Ms Ds claim  based on the new information presented by T in January 2018.  So I think that 
the claim should now to be reconsidered against  the remaining terms and conditions  of the 
policy (against the information available at that time). Im still of the opinion that if it is 
accepted and T are appointed on non-panel terms, then cover  should  be backdated to 
9 January 2018. I think this would put Ms D back in the position she would have been in, had 
Amtrust reconsidered the claim  at the time.
However, Ms D (whose complaint this is) has asked that if cover is put in place that it is only 
backdated to 6 December 2019  and Amtrust have agreed. Because of this, that is all Im 
going to require Amtrust  to do in this decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Amtrust Europe Limited must:
Reconsider Ms Ds claim against  the remaining terms and conditions of the policy on 
the basis of the information available in January 2018. 
If the claim is accepted and T are appointed under the Non-Panel  Terms, then cover  
should be backdated to 6 December 2019.  
Pay Ms D £200  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused in the 
handling of her claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4140046