K820x#14Complaint
Mr L complains  that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc didnt report information about  a current  
account he held to the credit reference  agencies. 
Background
Mr L opened a business current account with Bank  of Ireland in 2014. Mr L was operating  as 
a sole trader at the time. The account  didnt have an overdraft or any associated  borrowing 
facilities. 
Mr L first raised concerns that Bank of Ireland wasnt reporting the account to the credit  
reference agencies  in early 2018.  Due to the complaint  initially being passed to the wrong  
business there was a delay in responding. 
Mr L closed the account  on 7 August 2019. Bank  of Ireland responded to his complaint on 
20 September 2019 but didnt agree any errors had been made.  Bank of Ireland said it 
doesnt report information about  that type of account  to the credit  reference agencies as Mr L 
didnt have an overdraft.  
An investigator at our service looked at Mr Ls complaint but didnt uphold  it. She didnt agree 
that Bank  of Ireland  had acted unfairly  or that it was required to report information about the 
account to the credit  reference agencies. Mr L asked to appeal so his complaint has been  
passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his original complaint  submission and response  to the investigator Mr L has said the 
Information Commissioners Office  (ICO) told him that Bank of Ireland should  report details 
about his account to the credit reference  agencies. But Ive looked at the information  the ICO 
issues and havent  found anything that says businesses must report  the existence  of all bank 
accounts to the credit  reference agencies. Business will report information about accounts  
that provide a credit facility. Some businesses may also report details of a current  account 
that doesnt have an overdraft or any borrowing. But I havent seen anything that says 
businesses must report information  about  accounts of that nature. Im not persuaded that 
there is a specific requirement on businesses to report  that level of information.  
Businesses operate differently.  Whilst Mr L has found  examples  of banks that report the 
existence of current  accounts without overdrafts  or credit facilities,  that doesnt mean all 
businesses have to follow the same approach. 
In this case, Bank of Ireland says it doesnt report accounts without an overdraft facility  to the 
credit reference agencies and that Mr L never  entered into an unarranged overdraft. From 
what Ive seen, Im satisfied thats a decision Bank  of Ireland is entitled to take. In this case, 
that means there  was no information  to report to the credit reference agencies. 
Ref: DRN47316402Im sorry  to disappoint Mr L as I can see how strongly he feels. Ive considered everything 
said and submitted by Mr L and Bank  of Ireland when reaching my decision. But I havent 
found that Bank of Ireland  has made  a mistake or treated Mr L unfairly in this case  so Im not 
telling it to do anything  else.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4731640