K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr D and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them PPI.
For the avoidance of doubt, Mr D and Mrs Bs original complaint was about two PPI policies. 
But Lloyds has recently made an offer of compensation in line with our guidelines to Mr D 
and Mrs B for the first sale  a policy taken out with their original  mortgage.  Because  of this I 
dont need to decide this part of their complaint - this decision is only about the second PPI 
policy, which Mr D and Mrs B took out alongside  additional borrowing.
background 
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr D and 
Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information  here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr D and Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr D and Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr D and 
Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mr D and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because Lloyds  has provided a copy  of Mr D and Mrs Bs 
further advance  application from the time.  Looking at this I can see they ticked a box to 
agree to take out PPI. The application  didnt say or imply they had to have it  so if they 
didnt want cover they couldve left this section of the form blank.
Ref: DRN43212682So taking everything into account, I think Mr D and Mrs B chose to take out PPI and 
likely did so without undue pressure.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr D and Mrs B - so it had to check  that the PPI 
was right for them. And the evidence about  Mr D and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time, 
shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.  For example  
Mr D and Mrs B were  both eligible for the cover and although  Mrs B says she had some  
sick pay she couldve used to make  their mortgage repayments  if she wasnt working,  
jointly they still seem to have had a need  for cover. I say this because Mr D wasnt  
entitled to any enhanced  sick pay and they didnt have  any savings they could fall back   
so I think they might  have struggled financially if Mr D for example was off work ill for an 
extended period  of time.
There was nothing about Mr D and Mrs Bs employment or occupation which would have  
made it difficult for them to claim. Although Mrs B says she had a couple of medical  
conditions some time before the policy  was taken out, I dont think  it was wrong for 
Lloyds to have  recommended it. I say this because it doesnt appear that either of the 
things Mrs B told us and Lloyds about  caused her significant problems or led to her 
needing periods of time off work for. So I dont think Mrs B, if asked, would have said to 
the adviser that her conditions were of concern to her. Im mindful too that the policy only 
excluded existing conditions for the first 24 months  of cover, so Mrs B couldve claimed 
for her conditions after that if she needed  to. There were also no additional restrictions  
on cover  for mental health or back problems.
I accept its possible  the information Lloyds gave  Mr D and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks  like 
they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr D and Mrs 
B as I concluded above, or likely too dissimilar  to what they reasonably thought they 
were buying from the information I think they were given. It also looks  like it was 
affordable  so it seems  like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  wrong. 
Because of this I dont think Mr D and Mrs B would have declined the cover had Lloyds 
done anything  more.
Overall, I consider that Mr D and Mrs B would have  still taken out PPI. I think  the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that they would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr D and Mrs Bs representative has raised  a number  of what  I consider  to be general  
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. 
These general points  include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service  is not correctly  
applying the regulators  rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies  
represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith meant  Lloyds 
should have disclosed  the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making  a claim.
But Mr D and Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  
and circumstances  of Mr D and Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
Ref: DRN43212683I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr D and Mrs Bs particular  
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to do anything  in relation to this second  PPI sale to put 
things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr D and Mrs Bs complaint about their second  PPI policy   so I 
make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 October  2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4321268