K820x#14complaint
Mrs R, on behalf of herself and the estate of Mr R, has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out the PPI in January 1997  at the same time as arranging  their 
mortgage. Mrs R says that she and her late husband took out the PPI in a meeting in a 
branch of Lloyds.  Lloyds  doesnt have a record  of how the PPI was taken  out so it has 
treated the sale as if it was in a branch meeting. The mortgage  and the policy were set up in 
joint names.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs R and the estate of Mr Rs complaint  and Ill explain why.
Lloyds has no paperwork available from the time of the sale,  which  isnt surprising given how 
long ago it took place. But it does make  the case more difficult  to decide. Therefore in 
reaching my decision I have considered the evidence that we do have, and what  I consider 
is most  likely  to have happened. Ive also thought about how long ago the sale took place 
and how this may have  affected Mrs Rs memory of events.
Although Mrs R has said that she doesnt remember taking out PPI and that it was her late 
husband who would have arranged it as he was responsible  for sorting  out their financial 
affairs, shes  also said that she wasnt told the mortgage account  including  PPI.
Although we dont  have  the actual paperwork for Mr and Mrs Rs sale, we have seen  copies 
of the sort of forms that Lloyds  were using at the time. Based on what we know  about the 
way that Lloyds sold mortgage PPI, I consider it is more  likely than not that there would have 
been a discussion  about the policy as part of the wider  conversation  about Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage needs. Overall  I think its likely that the policy was presented  as optional.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs R has said,  but on balance I think  that she and her 
late husband probably decided to buy the PPI, knowing that they didnt have to, even  if they 
no longer remember  doing so.
Lloyds says that it advised  Mr and Mrs R to buy the PPI. Therefore in recommending the 
policy, it needed to ensure  that it met Mr and Mrs Rs needs. And from what I know of the 
couples circumstances at the time, I think the policy was suitable.
Mrs R has said that she wouldnt have received any sick pay from her job. Mr R would have 
received sick pay of at least six months  full pay. But the policy  would have paid out in 
addition to this and potentially for longer than Mr R would have received full pay for. Mr and 
Ref: DRN42680772Mrs R had some savings,  but having  the policy would have allowed them  to retain  these or 
use them  to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. Mrs R has said 
that family  could have  helped financially, but other people cant always be relied  upon  as 
their circumstances can change. So I think Mr and Mrs R had a need for the policy and could 
have benefitted  from it. And they seem to have  found it affordable.  So it was reasonable of 
Lloyds to recommend  the policy to them. A mortgage is a significant  financial commitment 
and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs R had an interest in protecting their 
repayments.
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover.  But Mr and Mrs R werent affected by 
any of those things.  As I think  Mr and Mrs R had an interest in the policy  and decided to buy 
it, I dont  think that more information would have caused them  to change their minds.  So they 
arent any worse of as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong, so there is nothing 
that Lloyds needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs R and the estate of Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R and the 
estate of Mr R to accept or reject  my decision before 22 April 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4268077