K821x#15complaint
Miss F complains that Ageas Insurance  Limited  has failed to settle a claim under her 
contents insurance policy in full. 
Where I refer to Ageas, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
background
In April 2017, Miss F had a fire at her home. She made a claim on her contents insurance 
policy for her damaged  belongings. Ageas has made a payment  to her but she complained 
that it hadnt settled  the claim in full.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said Miss F has provided enough information 
about her damaged belongings so Ageas shouldnt require any more  visits to the property. 
She said Ageas should reopen the claim and pay the outstanding items from Miss Fs list. In 
addition, they should pay £600 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Both parties  accepted what our investigator said. Ageas paid the compensation and asked 
Miss F to confirm  that the list it held was correct. It also made an offer of £3,142 to settle the 
claim in full. 
Miss F didnt co-operate with Ageas for some time. And when she did respond to the request 
for clarification, she added further items that she said had been damaged, which  she hadnt 
mentioned before. Ageas has asked for proof of these items, which Miss F is yet to provide. 
Shes asked  that these  items be treated as a new claim. But as they relate to the fire, Ageas 
says they have to be treated as the same claim. 
Our investigator wasnt able to resolve this complaint.  So it was passed  to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 26 February  2020.  In the provisional decision I said:
The policy provides cover for damage to the contents of Miss Fs home caused by fire. 
Claims will be settled  by paying the cost of replacing  items  as new, reinstating or repairing 
the items  as appropriate. 
Miss F was entitled to claim for the items that were damaged in the fire and that isnt 
disputed. The issue is how long it has taken to settle  the claim and the amount paid to her.
Ageas acknowledges this claim hasnt  been  handled  well - there have been delays and 
multiple visits to the property were required causing  inconvenience to Miss F following an 
already traumatic experience. It appears  there isnt a complete list of what  was cleaned;  
disposed of; or beyond  economical repair. And due to the amount of time thats passed, its 
difficult to know for sure what remains outstanding.
Miss F initially  submitted  a list of damaged items  with a value amounting to £11,000. So far, 
Ageas has paid £5,669.23  and offered a further  £3,142. This leaves an outstanding amount 
of £2,188.77.
Miss F has also now provided a further  list of items, which she hadnt previously mentioned 
before. This amounts  to £2,008. She says given the shock of the fire, she missed  some 
items. 
Ref: DRN49232762Ageas say the claim file is in a mess.  This appears  to be due to the handling of the claim 
by its agents. Because of this, the records of what was cleaned  and what  was thrown away  
arent clear, so they cant be relied on. As its been almost three years since the fire, I dont 
think there would  be any benefit to a further inspection of the property.
For this reason, I think in the circumstances of this case its reasonable to rely on the list 
Miss F provided  back in 2017. I say this because in the absence  of records  from Ageas, 
there is nothing to dispute what Miss F originally  claimed for. As this list amounted to 
£11,000, and only £5,669.23 has been paid, the fair thing to do is for Ageas to pay the 
remaining £5,330.77.  This will be in full and final settlement of the claim. 
I appreciate Miss F has recently added further  items  but I dont propose  to ask Ageas to pay 
these. This is because I think its reasonable to expect that Miss F would  have been  aware  in 
2017 that her TV and related equipment were  damaged back  in 2017. On balance,  it seems 
very unlikely  to me that she wouldnt have noticed they were damaged. And as she has only 
submitted these items almost three years after the fire, I cant be satisfied they havent been 
damaged since  by another cause. Its for Miss F to prove her claim and, in relation to these 
items, she hasnt done so.
With regard to compensation, our investigator awarded £600 which was accepted by both 
parties and I understand has now been paid.  Insurers should  deal with claims fairly and 
promptly. There has been some  unnecessary delay and some of the issues were  due to the 
poor handling of the claim.  But I think £600 is a fair way to address this. Im not awarding  
any further compensation for whats happened since, as Im satisfied Ageas has been  trying 
to bring this matter  to a conclusion and further  delays have been  contributed  to by Miss Fs 
actions.
For these reasons, my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold  the complaint  and 
direct Ageas Insurance  Limited to pay Miss F the sum of £5,330.77 in full and final 
settlement of her claim
developments
Ageas has no further comments  to add in reply to the provisional  decision. 
Miss F has commented further. She says its important to note that when she made her 
claim in April 2017, the total came to £14,400,  and she did provide details of the television. 
She would like the full amount she is claiming to be paid.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  Ill explain  why.
In the provisional  decision  I explained that Miss F initially provided a list of items valued at 
£11,000 but more recently  provided a further list, which  she hadnt mentioned before. This 
amounts to £2,008. Ive considered the further  comments she has made and reviewed the 
evidence again.  Having done so, I agree  that she did raise some  further  items,  such as the 
television, in 2017. But this was still some months after she originally claimed. I can see, for 
example, Miss F said in November 2017 her television was damaged.  So that was around 
seven months after the original list was provided.  Ageas  said it would need more details to 
Ref: DRN49232763be able to deal with that  pointing out that it was months after the fire, so it would be helpful  
to have evidence  of why the television had only just stopped working.  Miss F was going  to 
provide an engineers report  but this didnt  happen.  
Without further evidence, its difficult for me to say there was damage to the items such  as 
the television or, if there was, whether that damage was caused  by the fire; its possible 
something else happened in the months between April and December 2017. 
When Miss F raised  these  additional  items recently,  Ageas  didnt reject  them  out of hand.  It 
asked for more information  to prove  the claim. I think that was reasonable. And from what  I 
have seen, Miss F hasnt  provided the information  Ageas would  need  to consider this.
Taking everything into account,  on balance there  isnt enough  to prove the claim for these 
additional items. So the fair way to settle the claim is to pay the balance  from the original list.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold the complaint  and direct Ageas Insurance Limited  to pay Miss F 
the sum of £5,330.77 in full and final settlement of her claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4923276