K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Society of Lloyds  declined his removal  insurance claim. My references 
to Lloyds include its agents.
background
Mr C appointed a removal business (which Ill refer to as L) to remove  his house contents in 
2016. Most of the items were put into storage and some items were taken to Mr Cs 
temporary accommodation. In late November 2017  L delivered the stored items and items 
from the temporary accommodation to Mr Cs new home.
On 19 December 2017 Mr Cs wife told L that when she and Mr C unpacked  the boxes L 
delivered they couldnt find the subwoofer  speaker.  Mr C says the item was in storage  with L. 
He claimed for the loss on his removal insurance policy,  insured by Lloyds.
Lloyds declined the claim for two reasons. First,  Mr C hadnt told L about the loss within 
7 days of delivery. Second, the subwoofer  wasnt on the inventory of items L had taken. It 
accepted the inventory listed speakers and remotes  as being removed by L from the living 
room but Lloyds said the speakers and remotes  from that room  were boxed and delivered  to 
Mr C.
Our investigator thought Lloyds had declined  the claim unfairly. So it should deal with the 
claim, pay interest and pay Mr C £100  compensation  for his distress  and inconvenience.
Lloyds disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said: there was no evidence L 
collected the subwoofer; Mr Cs wife initially told L the item was at the temporary 
accommodation not in storage; Mr C needed  to notify L about the loss within 7 days  so when 
L said it hadnt  removed or lost the item Mr C could have raised the issue  with the workman 
he had on site at his new home.
Before I made my decision our investigator told Mr C that I was minded to not award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  unless he has any particular points he wanted  
me to consider. Mr C said he wasnt pursuing compensation but wanted Lloyds to be 
punished.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  Lloyds  must pay Mr Cs claim as Ive detailed below. Ill explain why.
Lloyds says theres no evidence that L collected  and stored the subwoofer. But Im satisfied 
the subwoofer was captured under the inventory entry of speakers + remotes.  Mr C says 
there were 6 speaks  altogether. The person who completed the inventory sheet didnt 
specify how many speakers, or the type/s of speakers. Ive no reason to think the subwoofer 
wasnt one of those  speakers  listed.
Mr Cs wife did initially tell L the subwoofer had been at the temporary accommodation. But 
she soon clarified  it wasnt and Mr C has explained  the mistake  was made because he was 
Ref: DRN45280092away. Even if the subwoofer had been  at the temporary accommodation L collected  the item 
to move to the permanent  home.
Lloyds thinks the subwoofer was delivered to Mr C and may have been moved or taken by 
workmen at Mr Cs new home. Theres  no evidence  to support that suggestion. Mr C says he 
and/or his wife were  in the property  whenever  anyone else was there.  I think its unlikely the 
subwoofer was taken by the workman.
I think its more likely than not the subwoofer  was lost while in the care of L. The policy  
covers loss of items while in Ls care during removal and/or  storage.
Lloyds says the claim can be declined as Mr C didnt tell L about the loss within 7 days of 
delivery.
The policy says:
You should report any loss or damage to your remover as soon as possible and no later 
than 7 days after taking  delivery, 
and 
This notification period  is important both for you and insurers.  It is essential that a close  link 
is maintained between a claim and the incident  giving rise to that claim.  Where a claim is 
notified late, it may be more difficult for insurers to connect your claim to the removal &/or 
storage.
Mr Cs wife did tell L about the loss later than 7 days after delivery. Mr C says the second 
paragraph Ive quoted  above means that a claim notified after 7 days is still possible.
 
I dont need to decide if the policy wording is ambiguous.  Even if the time limit requirement is 
clear, the important issue is we generally say an insurer cant fairly rely on a breach of a 
policy requirement for a consumer to make a claim  within a certain time limit, unless the 
insurer can show the late claim has disadvantaged its ability  to deal with the claim.
Lloyds response  hasnt persuaded me its been  disadvantaged by the late notification.  It and 
L have still been able to make their points as to why they dont think  the claim is covered. 
I dont think their argument would have been substantively different  if L had been told of the 
loss within  7 days of delivery. 
The fair and reasonable outcome is for Lloyds to pay the claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms and limits. It must pay interest  as detailed below. Ive said for the interest to run 
from the date of claim, rather  than date of loss, as the date of loss isn't known.
Mr C is unhappy about how Lloyds handled his claim.  But, as our investigator told Mr C, 
I dont think theres any basis for me to award  Mr C compensation. I asked if there were any 
particular points he wanted me to consider but I dont award compensation to punish a 
business. I make no award for compensation, which I understand Mr C accepts.
Ref: DRN45280093my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Society of Lloyds to pay Mr Cs claim in line with the remaining policy terms and 
limits. Interest* is payable at 8% simple  a year from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement.
Society of Lloyds must pay the claim within 28 days of us telling it Mr C accepts my final 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Society of Lloyds  considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mr C how much its taken  off. It should also give 
Mr C a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4528009