K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that Beadles Group Limited (Beadles) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  with a loan.
background
Briefly:
In 2007 Mrs H took out PPI at the same time as taking out a loan to buy a car. The policy  
was designed  to repay Mrs Hs loan in the event she suffered a critical illness  or she died. It 
didnt provide the typical elements of PPI - accident, sickness  or unemployment cover.
The policy was a regular  premium policy and it cost just under £17 a month.
The adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld.  They  said they didnt  think  it 
was clear that Mrs H agreed  to take out the policy given how the paperwork was written. And 
they said they didnt think the policy shouldve been  recommended to Mrs H based on the 
answers she gave on the demands and needs  document  it wasnt  suitable.
Beadles disagrees, so the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to PPI 
complaints on our website  and Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding  this 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint  I think the adjudicator has reached 
entirely the right outcome  here. Ive set out my detailed reasons below.
choice and agreement
Beadles had to make it clear to Mrs H that PPI was optional  i.e. she had a choice in the 
matter and it wasnt a condition of the borrowing. Mrs H has complained  that she felt she 
didnt have a choice, so Ive considered this matter  carefully.
Beadles has provided copies of the paperwork completed at the time.  And one important 
document is the Statement of Demands and Needs  which  was used  by Beadles to record  
Mrs Hs circumstances and the resulting recommendations for cover  made  to her.
Looking at this I can see that in the PPI recommendation section there is conflicting 
information  both the Yes and No  answers to the question Policy  taken out?  have been  
circled. I can also see that the words  Doesnt want it are written  and then crossed  out next 
to the question: If No, why not. Underneath the crossing out, the words Added CPI having 
read all info. has been written,  which is signed  / initialled. 
But the handwriting looks different and it appears  to have been written in different ink 
because it is much darker than the other writing on the form. Its also not clear  who has 
signed or initialled this apparent alteration   its not Mrs H because  shes signed  the 
document at the bottom and it is not a likeness. 
Ref: DRN48801972But I wouldve expected  any record  of a fundamental change in Mrs Hs decision about  
whether to take out the cover to have  been  signed or initialled by Mrs H to clearly  
demonstrate and record her choice and agreement about what she wanted to do.
So in light of the above Im not persuaded Beadles  made it clear  that Mrs H had a real 
choice about PPI or that she properly agreed to it.
the advice
In addition to the above  and adding to my concerns about how PPI was introduced to Mrs H 
and how the sale came about   the Demands and Needs document suggests that Mrs H 
changed her mind about buying PPI having  read  all info. But Beadles has said  and the 
evidence supports - that this was an advised  sale. So it was Beadles responsibility to 
recommend a suitable product to Mrs H based on her circumstances at the time. But Im not 
persuaded it did do this.
I say this because,  further down the Demands  and Needs  statement are the answers  to 
various questions  about  Mrs Hs circumstances and existing means,  which the adviser  
presumably used as the basis to recommend various products including  PPI. In the PPI 
section of this part of the form Mrs H was asked  the following two questions, which  I think 
are particularly relevant  here:
 Do you have insurance cover to settle  off the finance agreement should you be 
diagnosed with a critical illness and are unable to work?; and
Do you have a life insurance policy that would  settle the finance agreement?
The answers to both are recorded as Yes.
So this document from the time of the sale records that Mrs H already had the means at her 
disposal to pay off her car finance if the above two situations occurred  she therefore  didnt 
have a need for cover. I therefore think it was wrong for Beadles to have recommended  
critical illness and life cover PPI to Mrs H  it wasnt a suitable recommendation. 
conclusion  what does this mean?
Overall  given what Mrs H says about  what she thinks went wrong with the sale together  
with what Ive set out above about how the sale of PPI appears  to have come about, Im not 
persuaded Beadles made it clear  that Mrs H had a real choice about or that she properly 
consented and agreed to take out the PPI.
But even if I thought Beadles  did nothing  wrong in this regard, the PPI it recommended 
wasnt suitable for Mrs H based on what it recorded about her demands,  needs and 
circumstances at the time. And Beadles should  have told Mrs H that or made it clear to her 
why despite that it was still recommending  it to her anyway. But Beadles  did recommend the 
cover as being suitable, so Mrs H ended up buying  a policy,  which by Beadles own records 
she didnt need.  I therefore dont think Beadles  acted fairly  and reasonably in its dealings  
with Mrs H when it advised her to take out PPI.  
I think Mrs H has lost out as a result of this because in light of her documented  
circumstances at the time, I dont think Mrs H would have still taken out PPI if Beadles had 
done what it should have and properly  advised and informed her. So Beadles needs to do 
something to put things  right.
Ref: DRN48801973what the business needs  to do to put things right
Beadles should put Mrs H in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. I 
understand the policy has ended,  so Beadles should:
Pay Mrs H the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Beadles can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Beadles  to take off tax from this interest. Beadles must  
give Mrs H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Ive decided to uphold Mrs Hs complaint and Beadles  
Group Limited should pay Mrs H compensation as Ive prescribed above. I make no other  
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4880197