K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Nottingham Building Society (NBS) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs E bought the policy  in 1999 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. While 
not conclusive, the evidence suggests  they applied for the mortgage  and PPI policy in 
branch as Mr and Mrs E have indicated. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs E for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £250 a month  towards Mr and 
Mrs Es mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £13.78  a 
month. The policy document from the time isnt available which  isnt unusual given the time 
that has passed since the sale.  To help me decide, Ive used the nearest available  policy 
documents from before the sale and after the sale took place.
At the time,  Mr E was employed as a bus driver. He has told us he was not entitled to any 
sick pay, but he had 12 months worth of savings  in an endowment  policy which  was 
immediately accessible if he was unable to work.  Mr E has said he was in good health at the 
time of the sale. 
Mrs E was employed as a milk lady. She has told us she was not entitled to any sick pay but 
she also had an endowment policy which she could have easily accessed if she needed.  
Mrs E has said she was in good  health.  
NBS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2004. 
Mr and Mrs Es representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Es representative  says:
NBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs E 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Es representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NBS should  have told 
Mr and Mrs E about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN43842672The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs E and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs E received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs E disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Es. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN43842673The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like NBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Es case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so NBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Es complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If NBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs E with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether NBS gave Mr and Mrs E sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN43842674-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs E, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs E 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs E 
and NBS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs E know they had a choice?
NBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
As so much time has passed since the sale, not all the paperwork is available.  This is 
unsurprising and not unusual as businesses arent required to keep records  indefinitely. NBS 
has however been able to provide me with the mortgage application form. Theres nothing 
on the form which shows Mr and Mrs E had to have  the PPI in order to get their mortgage.
I have also seen a completed branch worksheet which looks  as if it was completed on 1 
February 1999 by an NBS representative, not long after Mr and Mrs E had signed  their 
mortgage application form on 21 January 1999.  On it theres  a section about the PPI. The 
box yes has been ticked and the monthly  benefit  amount has been inserted as £250.This 
section is signed  and dated  by the NBS representative. At the bottom of the form it states, 
By completing the Block Property Insurance and Payment Protection sections of the 
form, YOU  are confirming that the customer knows about and has agreed to these sales.  By 
completing these sections and signing the form the representative was confirming  that Mr 
and Mrs E knew about and had agreed  to the PPI. To think the NBS added the PPI without 
Mr and Mrs Es agreement Id have to think that the NBS representative  added  this 
information without  authorisation and I dont think thats likely.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs E knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did NBS provide advice?
NBS have said this was a non-advised sale. In their questionnaire to this service Mr and 
Mrs E didnt say whether  it was advised or not. But I can see from the mortgage application 
form that was completed it looks like this was a non-advised sale. At the top of the form it 
gives Mr and Mrs E instructions to fill in the answers and to make  sure all the information 
needed to deal with the application was sent. So I dont think advice was provided  during  this 
sale. 
This means  NBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs E. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Ref: DRN43842675Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs E were  given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr 
and Mrs E were unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. Ive reached this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs E 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs E agreed  to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think NBS gave  Mr and Mrs E sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Es representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Es. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Es representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs E about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Es representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs E have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that NBS ought to have done either. 
what effect did NBSs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs E? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs E suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that NBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs E. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs E would have still taken out the policy, had NBS done things properly. 
Ref: DRN43842676Mr and Mrs E say they would not have taken it out and believe I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs E had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs E chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs E thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs E have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs E knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear NBS told them the exact premium at the point 
they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs E would  have been  
told the cost before the policy started  and they paid for the policy for a number of years, so if 
the costs were significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible 
they might  have raised that with NBS at the time,  or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs E would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure when they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  NBS made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs E would get back in 
return in the event Mr and Mrs E made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs Es expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs E thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr and Mrs E knew 
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy or which  Mr 
and Mrs E had arranged to see/had seen a doctor about during the 24 months  
immediately before the start date and occurred within 12 months  of the start date;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs E werent permanent employees;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs E pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs E from 
taking out the policy.  
Ref: DRN43842677But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Es circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr and Mrs E were eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr and Mrs E wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr and Mrs E 
didnt have any pre-existing  medical conditions and were in permanent employment.  So, I 
still think they had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs E would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr and Mrs E needed to be totally unable  to do their normal  job 
and not be doing any other work.  I dont  think this is likely to be too different to what  they 
would have expected to make a claim. It seems unlikely they would have  thought theyd 
been able to make a successful claim if they were  still working.
NBS may not have  told Mr and Mrs E that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but they had limited other means to fall back on. Mr and Mrs E have told us they had no sick 
pay and although  they said they had an endowment policy which  they could have used, its 
not always easy to cash these types  of policies in early. From the mortgage application this 
shows they were using the endowment  policies  as a repayment  vehicle for their mortgage - 
so Mr and Mrs E would  unlikely wanted to have cashed these in early as that would put at 
risk the successful repayment  of the mortgage balance at the end of the mortgage term. The 
PPI would have  meant  they didnt need  to do this which could  have affected  the value of the 
policy  they could have left these  policies in place, so I still think the PPI was useful.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs E would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs E be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs E would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr and Mrs E were made redundant, or unable to work through 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr and 
Mrs E would have taken out the policy in any event  notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Es representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN43842678the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs E would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and 
Mrs Es circumstances as detailed above, I consider  it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs E found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position, they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs E believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs E in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude NBS should  pay Mr and Mrs E compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs E think NBS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of NBSs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why NBS failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  NBS gave Mr and Mrs E, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1999  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Es representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find NBS negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs E and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that NBS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs E in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN43842679my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 December  2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4384267