K821x#15complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about two instalment loans she took with Gain  Credit LLC  trading as 
Lending Stream. She says these loans  were unaffordable. 
background 
Lending Stream provided Mrs B with three instalment loans  between  June and September 
2018. Mrs Bs lending history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Max Repayment
1 09/06/2018 outstanding 6 £450.00 £198.80
2 18/07/2018 outstanding 6 £230.00 £281.05
3 25/09/2018 outstanding 6 £410.00 £364.87
Our adjudicator thought Lending Stream  hadnt done anything  wrong  when providing  Mrs B 
with the first two loans.  But they thought that Lending Stream  shouldnt  have  provided  loan 3 
to Mrs B. So, they partially upheld Mrs Bs complaint.
Lending Stream accepted our adjudicators view. But Mrs B representative  disagreed and 
said if Lending Stream had done proper checks it would have been clear  that Mrs B was 
struggling financially. 
As Mrs B disagreed with our adjudicator, the case was passed to me for a final decision.  I 
issued my provisional decision in March 2020 (a copy  of which is attached  to the end of this 
decision) and I explained that whilst I agreed  with the adjudicators  findings  for loan 1, I didnt 
agree with their findings to not uphold loan 2. And I gave my reasoning.
Lending Stream responded  and accepted  my decision. Mrs B didnt respond.  
my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
As Mrs B hasnt  provided me with anything further to consider, and Lending Stream has 
agreed with what I said in my provisional decision,  my findings remain the same.  Im partially 
upholding Mrs Bs complaint about loans 2 and 3 and Lending  Stream should put things 
right.
putting things right  what Gain Credit LLC needs to do 
If Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debts Lending Stream  should  buy these back if 
Lending Stream is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Lending Stream  cant  
buy the debts  back,  then Lending Stream should  liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  
the results outlined below.
Ref: DRN49232092A) Lending Stream should add together the total of the repayments made  by Mrs B towards  
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything Lending  Stream has already refunded.
B) Lending Stream should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual  payments made by 
Mrs B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs B originally made 
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Lending  Stream  should remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance  on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mrs B as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding  loans. If this results in Mrs B having 
made overpayments  then Lending Stream should  refund these overpayments  with 8% 
simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Lending Stream should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus, 
then the surplus  should be paid to Mrs B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance  
then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs B. Lending 
Stream shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Lending Stream has 
already written-off.
E) Lending Stream should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file in 
relation to loans  2 and 3. 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Gain Credit LLC to take off tax from this interest. Gain  Credit  LLC 
must give Mrs B a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I am partially  upholding  this complaint.  And Lending Stream  has agreed to put things right as 
laid out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4923209