K821x#15complaint
Mrs B has complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited wont  provide cover  under her 
private medical insurance policy  for a scan she underwent,  even though it had provided 
authorisation for this.
background     
On 5 November  2018, Mrs B contacted  AXA PPP to say her GP had referred  her to a 
specialist because of symptoms shed been experiencing. AXA PPP approved the claim and 
gave her details of three specialists at a particular  hospital. It said that the cost of treatment 
at the hospital in question  was fully covered under her policy.
Mrs B saw the specialist  who recommended she undergo two scans. However, he said 
these scans were only available  at a different hospital and so he arranged for them to place 
at that other hospital. Mrs B had these scans on 12 November 2018 and 28 December 2018. 
When AXA PPP received  the invoices for these scans, it informed Mrs B that because they 
had taken place  at a hospital  which wasnt fully recognised under the policy,  it would pay 
only 60% towards the cost.
Mrs B complained to AXA PPP. When AXA PPP reviewed the matter, it acknowledged  that 
the specialist had explained  in a note attached to the invoice that the scan  couldnt be 
carried out at the fully recognised hospital.  It therefore agreed to provide  full cover for the 
scan of 12 November 2018. However,  it said it wouldnt provide cover for the scan  of 
28 December 2018 because the policy had been  cancelled on 21 December 2018. It 
recognised that it should have read the specialists note when the invoice was first received  
and offered £50 compensation for any distress or inconvenience caused  by its failing.
Mrs B was unhappy at AXA PPPs response. She considered that because AXA PPP had 
provided authorisation for her treatment while the policy  was still active, it should  cover the 
cost. She said AXA PPP had unfairly  used  the non-payment of the scan  to try and force her 
to renew the policy.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He was satisfied 
that AXA PPP was under no obligation  to pay anything towards the second  scan.  However, 
he noted that before Mrs B made her complaint, AXA PPP had told her the second scan  
would be covered under the policy  albeit only partially  and he considered she had 
therefore suffered  a loss of expectation for which it should pay a further £75 compensation.
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators findings. She said that AXA PPP had pre-approved the 
scan and therefore  should provide cover.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that this complaint should  be upheld in part. I shall explain why.
The policy handbook, in a section headed  Rights and responsibilities , states:
Ref: DRN47807442We will pay for covered costs incurred during a period for which the premium has been  
paid.
This is the common approach in private medical insurance policies. The insurer cannot be 
held liable  for treatment  costs which  are incurred once the policy  has ended.
Mrs B underwent her second scan on 28 December 2018. This was one week after the 
policy had ended. AXA PPP was therefore not obliged to provide cover  for that scan.  This is 
regardless of whether it had previously  given authorisation. Mrs B says that the delay in 
undergoing the scan  was outside her control. This may be true but I have seen nothing to 
indicate that the delay  between authorisation and the treatment being received was the fault 
of AXA PPP. I therefore see no reason  to conclude that AXA PPP should  provide cover.
AXA PPP initially  said it would pay 60% towards the cost of the two scans.  This led to 
Mrs Bs complaint to it. On investigating  her complaint, AXA PPP conceded that it should  
have noticed that the scans couldnt  take place at the fully recognised  hospital. It therefore  
agreed to provide full cover for the first scan and to pay £50 compensation for its error.  
However, it explained that the second scan  wasnt  eligible  for cover because it had taken 
place after the policy had ended. 
I have already explained that AXA PPP wasnt obliged  to provide any cover  for the second 
scan. However, as the investigator has pointed  out, AXA PPP had indicated  it would provide 
cover  albeit for only 60% of the cost. AXA PPP made a mistake when it said this and I 
dont think this mistake means that it must therefore provide the cover.  However, the mistake 
will have resulted in a certain amount  of disappointment for Mrs B on learning that she would 
in fact have to meet the full cost herself.  I agree  with the investigator that AXA PPP should 
pay a further £75 to compensate Mrs B for this.
Mrs B has additionally  complained that AXA PP used the non-payment of the scan  to try and 
force her to renew the policy. However, the file notes indicate that AXA PPP simply said that 
if Mrs B renewed the policy,  the claim may be payable. I consider this was reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to pay Mrs B a further £75 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4780744