K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2000. Mr T says Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr T took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2000.  The policy provided accident, sickness  
and unemployment  cover. He paid a monthly  amount for the cover.  If a successful claim was 
made, the policy would  have  paid out the relevant repayment benefit  for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr T said he was told he had to have the policy  in order to have  a better  chance  of having 
his finance accepted. But I think Nationwide made  it clear that Mr T didnt have to take out 
the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand  why he may not remember  
this. I say this because Ive been given a copy of the mortgage application form from the time 
and I can see that there is a section for the PPI. This form includes pre-printed information  
and in this section it confirms that Mr T wanted  to take out the PPI. I think its likely the 
information on the form was a reflection of his conversation  with the mortgage advisor. I can 
see that Mr T has signed this section which suggests he agreed  with everything it contained.
Nationwide has told us that if Mr T had declined to take any PPI, the mortgage  application  
would have reflected  this  and it has provided a sample copy of an application to show how 
this would look. If Mr T didnt agree to take out the PPI, I think this would  have been  made  
clear on the form.
So, based on everything Ive seen and been told, I think Mr T was given a choice whether to 
take out the PPI and he agreed to the cover, knowing he could refuse  it if he didnt want  it.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure he got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN40510932Mr T has told us he was self-employed at the time of taking out the policy but from what we 
have seen from his mortgage application documents it would appear he was an employee at 
the time of the sale. But even if Mr T had been  self-employed, from reviewing the policy  
terms and conditions it appears that he wouldnt have found it any more  difficult  to claim as 
a result.  So this point  doesnt change my outcome.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI. As a 
result Nationwide will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr T about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell 
Mr T, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
Mr T says there have been  other  court cases in relation to non-disclosure of commission 
where consumers have received everything back.  So he thinks Nationwide  should refund all 
of the money  paid for the PPI.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr Ts complaint is the law. But I also need to take into account 
relevant regulators  rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Nationwide has made  Mr T an offer of compensation in relation to the level of 
commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Mr T wants  
Nationwide to do something different. 
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Mr T and his complaint to see if theres 
anything about  him that would mean the business should do something different  if the 
remedies set out in the FCAs rules dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for Mr T. But 
there isnt anything about Mr Ts complaint  or circumstances  that suggest the redress paid 
by Nationwide  isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think Nationwides offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
Ref: DRN40510933my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr T any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4051093