K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs G says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Gs signed  credit  agreement. On it there  is a section related to 
PPI and the box opting for the policy has a printed cross in it. As this policy was sold in a 
face-to-face meeting  I think its likely this selection came  about as a result of a 
conversation between Halifax and Mrs G, where  PPI was discussed.  Mrs G has signed 
the form so I think its likely  to reflect what she wanted. And theres  nothing  on the form 
to suggest the PPI was compulsory. So on balance I think  its likely Halifax  made  it clear  
that Mrs G didnt  have  to take out the PPI and she chose  to take it out  although  I can 
understand why she cant  remember  this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs G so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Mrs G says she wouldve received some sick pay at the time the policy was sold.  She 
also says she couldve relied on her partner to help make her repayments. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to any other means she had  and for up to 12 months if 
she was unable to work because of accident, sickness. It also wouldve paid out for up to 
10 months if she lost her job. And having the PPI meant she wouldve been  able to use 
her existing  means to cover other  necessary expenses  at what couldve been a difficult 
time financially. And having the policy meant she wouldnt  have to rely on her partner  
whose ability to help would depend  on their own circumstances at any given time.  So I 
think she wouldve found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But I think  she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted  this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said, but for the reasons Ive explained above, I 
dont think her policy was mis-sold. 
So Halifax  doesnt  need to refund everything  Mrs G paid for it. But I understand Halifax  has 
already given Mrs G back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think  it needs to do anything 
more. 
Ref: DRN43081192my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4308119