K822xcomplaint
Miss G is unhappy that Metro Bank  PLC shared  her personal information  with another 
customer.
background 
Miss G has the same  first and last name as her sister-in-law. And she discovered  some of 
her information was listed on her sister-in-laws  credit history.  When  Metro Bank produced a 
letter to clarify matters it gave a copy to her sister-in-law. And it contained Miss Gs full 
name, date of birth and other information. 
Miss G understands her information  had to be shared with other  companies  to sort things 
out. But shes not happy the letter was also given to her sister-in-law. She wants Metro Bank 
to agree it made  a mistake and apologise.  And she wants some  reassurance it won't happen  
again.
Metro Bank  accepted it had shared Miss Gs details with her sister-in-law. But its records 
showed that her sister-in-law had contacted Miss G to get consent for Metro Bank to provide 
the letter explaining the error. However  it agreed with our adjudicator  that it couldve worded 
its letter to protect Miss Gs details. So it offered her £75 compensation.
Miss G wasnt satisfied  with Metro Banks  response. So she contacted our service and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. He felt the letter couldve  been worded differently to avoid 
disclosing her personal  information. So he felt the offer of £75 compensation was fair for the 
inconvenience caused.
Miss G remained concerned about  the more serious  issue  of her details being shared with 
someone else. The potential repercussions were immense. And it had caused her a great  
deal of stress. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Miss Gs concerns. Her credit history had been mistakenly combined with 
her sister-in-laws.  And while it was being  resolved Metro Bank gave a letter to her sister-in-
law which contained some information about  Miss G. 
Metro Bank  said it had been  trying to sort things out. And it felt Miss G had given her 
consent for her details  to be shared. But it agreed  with our adjudicator that it couldve 
worded its letter more appropriately to protect Miss Gs details. 
The role of this service is to decide  if Metro Bank has made a mistake.  And if so what it 
needs to do to put things  right. So Ive considered how the mistake  has affected  Miss G and 
what would  level of compensation  would  be appropriate.
Im sure Metro Bank takes note of the outcome of all the complaints it receives to see if it 
can improve things in the future. And our adjudicator has discussed how its letter  couldve 
been better worded. 
Ref: DRN40698572Miss G is worried that sharing the contents of the letter mightve had more  serious  
consequences. Metro Bank said its letter only contained her full name  and date of birth 
(which could be obtained elsewhere quite  easily) and the date a credit check had been 
carried out. So it felt any potential impact would be minimal. But I do recognise the stress 
this will have caused Miss G. 
Taking into account everything  thats  happened, including the level of awards our service 
makes, I think the offer of £75 compensation is a fair and reasonable amount. I realise 
Miss G will be disappointed with this outcome. But I hope this shows  Ive fully investigated  
the complaint  and the reasons behind my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC should pay Miss G £75 compensation as it has 
already agreed  to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4069857