K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance  plc, trading as Tesco Bank,  wont  refund to him 
the money that he paid for a film to be supplied  and fitted on his conservatory windows. 
background
Mr B used his Tesco Bank  credit  card in March  2018 to pay part of the cost of £1,500 for a 
film to be supplied and fitted  on his conservatory windows to reduce the temperature  inside 
the conservatory during the summer. He complained to the supplier in April 2018  that the 
temperature reduction hadnt been achieved and that the conservatory was hotter  than it had 
been before  the film was fitted. He then claimed a refund  of £1,500  from Tesco Bank under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. It said that it was unable to evidence that 
thered been any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Mr B wasnt  
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She could see that the 
temperature of Mr Bs conservatory between June  and September 2019 was about 40c and 
above which she said would suggest that the statement made  by the sales representative 
was false. She was satisfied that that statement would have induced  Mr B into buying the 
film as she didnt think a reasonable person would buy a film costing £1,500 if they didnt 
believe it would reduce heat. She recommended that Tesco  Bank should refund  £1,500  to 
Mr B.
Tesco Bank has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in 
summary, that:
Mr B wasnt told by the supplier that the film would reduce the heat in the 
conservatory from 40c to about  25c  his testimony  confirms  that it was him that 
brought up that specific temperature reduction and the suppliers  representative said 
that it was possible   there were no promises by the suppliers representative;
due to the number of variables involved,  no such guarantees could be made;
the investigator concluded that the film is seemingly fit for purpose and that theres a 
difference between  heat rejection and heat reduction  but she then stated that it was 
reasonable for Mr B to assume that they were the same  and, as the film does not 
reduce heat, thats is a breach of contract;
neither it nor the supplier is liable for Mr B making wrong  assumptions  on the film he 
was purchasing;
it doesn't believe that it's been  proven  that the film doesnt work   Mr B has supplied  
temperature readings from after the fitting  but there are no comparable readings  from 
before the fitting and the heat reduction  performance would be impossible to quantify 
as there  are too many variables involved such as time of day, outside temperature, 
how much  direct sunlight, cloud cover, ventilation  and others;
the summer of 2018 was hotter than the previous year so it's impossible to directly  
compare temperatures;
there has been no misrepresentation of the facts inducing  Mr B to buy the film and no 
breach of contract has been established;  and
Mr B is clearly  disappointed with the performance of the film but thats based on his 
own expectations rather than what has been represented to him by the supplier  so 
it has no liability to refund £1,500 to him.
Ref: DRN42563272my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to Tesco Bank on 8 April 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
In certain  circumstances,  section  75 gives a consumer an equal  right to claim 
against the supplier  of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier.  To be able to uphold  Mr Bs 
complaint about  Tesco  Bank, I must  be satisfied  that theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the film and that Tesco Banks 
response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not determining 
the outcome of Mr Bs claim under section 75 as only a court  would be able to do 
that.
The marketing materials for the film clearly talk about its heat reduction effect  and 
that it will allow rooms to be used  when they would  previously  have  been  too hot. Its 
clear that Mr B paid for the film to be supplied and fitted so that it would reduce the 
temperature inside  his conservatory in summer.  I consider that it was reasonable for 
Mr B to expect that the temperature inside his conservatory  would be lower after the 
film was fitted than it would have been if the film hadnt been fitted. 
Mr B has provided evidence to show the temperature that hes recorded  both inside 
and outside of the conservatory and he says that the conservatory is hotter than it 
was before the film was fitted. Im not persuaded that the evidence  that hes provided 
is enough to show  that the film hasnt reduced the temperature  inside his 
conservatory from what the temperature would have been if the film hadnt been 
fitted. There are many  factors that will affect  the temperature inside the conservatory.
The film was supplied  and fitted as set out in the contract and Mr B confirmed that he 
was happy with the installation. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to 
show that the film wasnt supplied  correctly or that it wasnt fit for purpose. 
Mr B is clearly  dissatisfied with the film. I sympathise with him for that and can 
understand his frustration  that he hasnt received the benefits that he was expecting 
from the film. But I can only uphold his complaint about Tesco Bank  if I consider  that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier of the film and 
that Tesco Banks response to his complaint hasnt been fair or reasonable. 
Having considered all of the information that Mr B has provided, Im not persuaded 
that theres enough  evidence to show that theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to require Tesco Bank to refund to him the £1,500 that he paid for the film.
So subject to any further representations by Mr B or Tesco Bank, my provisional decision 
was that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint.
Mr B has responded to my provisional  decision  in detail and says, in summary, that:
he and his wife were told by the suppliers representative that the film would definitely 
reduce the temperature  from about  around  40c to about  25c  but it has increased 
the heat by over 20% - and hes not made assumptions about this;
the temperature reduction hasnt been  achieved and hes referred to adverse  
customer reviews  about the supplier;
Ref: DRN42563273its not right that he should spend £1,500 on something that he was convinced by the 
supplier to buy only to find it does the opposite to what was claimed; and
hell have to pay for the film to be removed by a professional company because  he 
doesnt want a third summer  of exceptionally high temperatures in his conservatory  
and he hasnt had it removed before now in case further proof of the temperatures  
was needed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
I continue to sympathise  with Mr B for his frustration that he hasnt received the benefits  that 
he was expecting from the film  but the adverse  reviews about the supplier to which Mr B 
has referred arent enough  to show that the film was misrepresented to him or that the 
supplier has breached its contract  with him.
Im still not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that theres  been  a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in these circumstances. So I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Tesco Bank to refund to Mr B the £1,500 that 
he paid for the film.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4256327