K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that he went over his outpatient allowance  under a group private medical  
insurance policy with BUPA  Insurance Limited. 
background
Mr E has an annual outpatient allowance of £1,500 under the policy. 
In the 2017/2018  policy  year,  Mr E went over his allowance and was left with a shortfall  to 
pay. He says BUPA didnt make it clear to him what treatment  would  come  out of the 
allowance. He says hed understood from BUPA that there were separate limits for 
consultations and tests, and hed also understood he had enough  allowance  remaining for 
all the treatment that was authorised. 
BUPA thought  they had made it clear to Mr E how his outpatient allowance worked. Mr E still 
didnt agree, so he brought  a complaint  to this service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought  BUPA had given  
Mr E the correct information about  his outpatient  allowance, and hadnt misled  him. 
Mr E didnt accept our investigators findings,  so the matter has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
There were two relevant  calls that took place between Mr E and BUPA.  
During the first call, Mr E asked BUPA some  questions  about how his outpatient allowance 
worked. BUPA advised it ran November to November, and his annual  allowance was 
£1,500. Based on the claims hed made so far that policy  year, BUPA  confirmed that he had 
£1,060 of his allowance remaining. They explained that MRI tests didnt come out of his 
allowance, but consultations, x-rays, ultrasounds, and blood  tests did. Mr E explained that he 
needed to see a specialist again. BUPA  authorised  this consultation.
Mr E then called BUPA  just after hed had his consultation. The consultant  wanted him to 
have blood tests and an ultrasound. Mr E was about to have the blood tests,  but wanted  to 
check with BUPA that this was covered. BUPA gave authorisation for the tests,  as well as a 
follow-up consultation.  BUPA  reminded Mr E that his remaining allowance  was £1,060, and 
advised him to monitor this as anything above it would  be his responsibility to pay. Mr E 
asked if he had enough allowance remaining for the tests and the follow-up consultation. 
BUPA didnt  know what they were going to cost, and so advised him to check  with the 
hospital and his consultant. They also reminded  him that hed need to take into account the 
cost of the consultation hed just had. 
Like the investigator, I think BUPA  made it clear to Mr E how his outpatient allowance 
worked. Im not sure why Mr E had understood from the calls that consultations and tests 
had separate  limits  under the policy, but I dont think BUPA  gave him misleading  information  
in this respect. It was made clear to Mr E that his consultations and diagnostic tests  would  
Ref: DRN47404812come out of his outpatient allowance (apart from MRI scans, which would  be covered 
separately). 
During the second call, Mr E did ask if he had enough allowance left to cover the tests  and 
consultations. However, BUPA didnt know how much they would cost, and so advised him 
to check this with the hospital and consultant. I think this was an appropriate response,  and I 
note Mr E said he would  do so. I dont think BUPA led Mr E to believe he had enough  
allowance remaining for the authorised treatment  it was made  clear  to Mr E that they didnt 
know.  
Overall, I dont  find that BUPA did anything wrong  here. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4740481