K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms A say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a Payment Protection Insurance (PPI)
policy with their mortgage in 1992.
background
In my provisional decision sent in November 2020 I explained  why I didnt think this
complaint should  be upheld.  I said:
The PPI covered  Mr A only so I have mainly  considered his circumstances at the time it was
sold.
Ive provisionally  decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make Mr and Ms A aware  the PPI was optional and gain their consent
before adding it to their mortgage. Mr and Ms A have told us they were  told they had to take
the PPI to get their mortgage. The PPI was sold a long time ago and unfortunately there  isnt
much paperwork  available. But this isnt unusual as businesses arent required to keep this
type of information indefinitely.  With the information that is available I dont have enough  to
say Santander  didnt make Mr and Ms A aware  the PPI was optional, or that Mr A didnt
choose to have it.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr A so it had to check that the PPI was right for him.
Mr A has told us that he was self-employed  at the time the policy was taken out. The policy
makes it harder for a self-employed person  to make a claim so our adjudicator thought  Mr 
and Ms As complaint should be upheld.  Santander didnt agree and said it needed to see
evidence Mr A was self-employed before it would take another look at the sale of the policy.
I have thought about what both Mr A and Santander  have  said. Our adjudicator also
explained how Mr A could gain evidence of his employment status at the time the policy was
sold and gave time for Mr and Ms A to provide this information. Unfortunately, nothing further
was provided.
On balance I am unable  to confirm whether Mr A would have been affected by the policys
self-employment terms and am therefore  unable to uphold Mr and Ms As complaint for this
reason.
If Mr A was employed at the time the policy was taken out it would have paid out in addition
to any sick pay he would  have been entitled to and helped protect any savings he may have
had, so they could then be used  towards other expenses.
Based on the cover  the policy provided, without evidence that Mr A was self-employed at the
time, I think the cover was right for Mr A and it would  have been useful for Mr and Ms A if
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information
about the PPI would have  put Mr A off taking out the cover.
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Ms A.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Ms A have said,  but these points dont change my
decision.
Ref: DRN47781642Mr and Ms A requested more time to provide information about  Mr As employment  status  at 
the time the policy was sold. Unfortunately, nothing further was provided by either  side.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But as neither side responded with
anything further  for me to consider I see no reason to come  to a different  decision to that
explained above.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2021.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4778164