K820x#14Complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the changes Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) made to its overdraft pricing 
structure in November 2017.  He says that the charges were unfair and they go against the 
spirit of the rules.
Background
In August  2017,  Lloyds wrote to its customers to explain that it would be moving from a 
pricing structure based on an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) to a daily charge of 1p per 
every full £7 per day. Mr R complained to Lloyds He was unhappy  that their overdraft would 
cost more to use and said the pricing  structure goes against European regulations and the 
spirit of the rules. 
Lloyds didnt uphold  Mr Rs complaint. It said it was entitled to change  its pricing structure  
and while  this meant some customers might  end up paying more,  it had transitional 
arrangements in place to mitigate this. Mr R remained dissatisfied and referred their 
complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Rs concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong  or treated Mr R unfairly  and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
Mr R disagreed and so the complaint  was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R says that the price  increase didnt highlight  or notify account holders of the APR and 
Lloyds incorrectly suggested that it wasnt charging  an interest rate. But it may help for me to 
start by explaining  that using an example or representative APR is only one of the ways  a 
bank can explain the costs of an overdraft. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), as part of its 2018 and 2019  High cost credit: 
overdrafts review, did go on to conclude that APRs  were the simplest and most transparent 
way of displaying the cost of an overdraft  especially  in terms of comparing the cost 
between banks and to other forms of credit. But the new rules which followed the review only 
came into force in April 2020. 
A requirement for a bank  to display the APR of an overdraft wasnt  in place prior to this and 
the new requirement wasnt retrospective  either. So I dont  think  Lloyds failure to display an 
APR as part of its November 2017 changes  meant  that it did something wrong. And Im 
unaware of any European  regulation or rule which required Lloyds  to do this in the way that 
Mr R is suggesting either.
Id also add  even if only for the sake of completeness - that even if any such  requirements  
had been in place at the time of the change  in pricing structure, it isnt my role to punish a 
firm for a rule breach or to investigate overdraft pricing terms. These are matters  for the 
FCA. 
My role is to look at whether a complainant might have lost out in the event I find that a firm 
did something wrong. In practical terms this means  I wouldnt tell a firm to pay compensation 
Ref: DRN40102152to a complainant  just for failing to display an APR, or for increasing  the cost of using an 
open-ended credit facility  such  as an overdraft. But I might tell it to do so in circumstances 
where the failure to display an APR or the increase  in cost unfairly caused a complainant to 
lose out. 
For example  in circumstances  where  the failure to display an APR misled a customer into 
believing an overdraft  was cheaper  than it was and they ended  up paying more  than they 
would have done had the APR been  displayed;  or a customer was in financial difficulty and a 
bank took no steps to mitigate the effects  of the proposed changes  and this compounded the 
customers difficulties.
I dont think that happened  here though.  I say this because having looked at Mr Rs 
statements I cant see anything to suggest that Lloyds ought to have realised that he might  
have been experiencing  financial difficulty. So while I understand Mr Rs strength of feeling 
on this matter and fully accept it now costs him more when he is overdrawn over a certain 
amount, Mr R could have stopped using the facility and is free to stop doing so, if he didnt 
want to accept the changes. 
So I dont  think that Lloyds implemented these changes in a way that treated Mr R unfairly. 
And as the terms and conditions permitted Lloyds to make  these  changes  in the first place, it 
follows that Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4010215