K821x#15the complaint
Mr S says TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact on him. 
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Mr S says this meant he started to 
get text alerts in early  May telling  him his account was overdrawn,  when it wasnt. He says 
he was worried about this so he went to a branch  to discuss it, but wasnt  happy  with the 
way he was treated  there. And he wasnt  happy with the way he was treated at a second 
branch a week later. Mr S says hes also spent a lot of time calling TSB to try to resolve his 
complaint.  
TSB answered Mr Ss complaint in January  2019. It apologised that system problems had 
caused the text messages to show the wrong account balance. And it also apologised that it 
had taken so long to respond  to Mr Ss complaint. TSB offered Mr S £100 to compensate  
him for any distress and inconvenience  caused  and another £50 for out of pocket expenses. 
But TSB said it didnt  think the branch staff had acted  unprofessionally. 
Mr S didnt think TSBs offer reflected the level of stress and anxiety hed experienced. So he 
referred his complaint to us, and it was reviewed by two adjudicators.  They thought TSB 
should pay Mr S £150 compensation for the impact on him  and £38 for the actual costs of 
telephone calls and taxi fares to the branch.  
TSB accepted this, but Mr S didnt. He said it took four weeks before he was able to speak to 
TSB and be reassured  that his concerns were being  looked into. And he said the issue with 
the texts, and the way he was treated, caused  emotional stress for him and also stress  for 
his wife. Hes suggested that £500  might be a fair amount of compensation. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think the compensation the adjudicators have  already  recommended is a 
fair way to resolve  this complaint. I know that wont be the outcome Mr S hoped for  but Ill 
explain why I think that. 
I can appreciate it must have been  confusing and concerning for Mr S when he received text 
messages telling him his account was overdrawn,  even though it wasnt.  Because of the 
numbers of customers affected by its IT problems  which led to an increase in the 
complaints and queries it was dealing with  TSB also wasnt  able to provide the level of 
service and contact it might normally expect to. This meant it took longer for Mr S to get the 
reassurance he needed that this was a problem with the text messages, not the account  
itself. 
Mr S has said he went to a TSB branch to find out what was happening.  Its clear he isnt 
happy with the way that visit went  and hes said he also had a bad experience at a second 
branch. But its also clear that Mr S and TSB have different opinions about  what happened.  
Overall, I cant say that TSBs staff treated Mr S inappropriately   even though  its clear he 
felt they did. 
Ref: DRN46167012Mr S has told us the problem with the text messages caused  him emotional stress and made 
him worry about what else might happen  to his account  and that payments might be 
missed. Again I can understand his concern.  But it seems nothing  did happen to the account 
itself. Mr S was never overdrawn  and the account otherwise operated normally.   
When Im thinking about an appropriate amount of compensation I have  to consider what did 
happen, not what might have happened.  And, although Mr S has said this issue caused 
stress for his wife as well as himself, I can only consider  the impact  on Mr S here. The text 
messages were about Mr Ss sole account  and so he is TSBs customer  for the purposes of 
this complaint.  
Mr S has suggested that £500 would be appropriate  compensation for the worry and stress 
the text messages and overall service  from TSB caused. I acknowledge  that he feels  
strongly about this. But taking  everything into account, I think the compensation the 
adjudicators have already recommended  and TSB has agreed to  is a fair way to put 
things right in this case.  
putting things right
To put things right TSB should:
pay Mr S £150 for the impact the IT issues had
and pay £38 for expenses  made  up of £20 in call costs  and £18 of travel costs.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
TSB Bank plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above  but only where it hasnt 
already done this. So if TSB has already paid these amounts to Mr S it doesnt need  to pay 
him anything  more.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4616701