K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a mobile phone  (phone) provided to him under a credit  
sale agreement (agreement) with Tesco  Mobile  Limited (Tesco) and Tescos decision to 
register this agreement as being in default.
Where I refer to Tesco, this includes its agents.
background
In May 2014  Mr C entered into an agreement with Tesco for a phone costing £420 (inclusive 
of VAT). The sum of £420 was repayable by 24 equal monthly instalments of £17.50.
In May 2017  Mr C complained to Tesco about its decision to register (in late 2014) his 
agreement with various credit reference agencies as being in default.
Tesco didnt  uphold  Mr Cs complaint. It said that its registration of the agreement  as being in 
default was correct, Mr C having paid nothing  towards it.
Unhappy with Tescos  response, Mr C referred a complaint  to our service. In doing so he 
said that he had paid nothing towards  the agreement because the phone was faulty.  He also 
said that he had returned the phone to Tesco for repair (soon  after taking delivery of it) but it 
was returned to him shortly afterwards by Tesco still faulty. 
Tesco says that it accepts Mr C called it in July 2014 about a possible fault with the phone 
(when his agreement was already in arrears  and he been reminded of the same).  But it has 
no record of the phone  ever being returned  to it. It also said that it sent Mr C everything it 
was required to send  him before registering his agreement as being in default.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He concluded that there was 
insufficient evidence  to conclude that there  was a fault with the phone, or that Tesco had 
done anything  wrong in registering Mr Cs agreement as being in default.
Mr C didnt agree and so his complaint  has been passed to me for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I can confirm that 
Ive come to the same  overall conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same  
reasons.
I would also add, for the avoidance of any doubt, that Im only considering here Mr Cs 
complaint about  the registration  of his phone agreement default by Tesco, not any other 
default.
Ref: DRN48749412Mr C says there was a fault with the phone  and that he returned it to Tesco for an 
unsuccessful repair. But had this happened I might have expected to see some documentary 
evidence in support  of the same, for example  proof of return of the phone  to Tesco, proof  of 
return of the phone from Tesco to Mr C, some note of the phones return in Tescos records 
or some follow up from Mr C after July 2014  and before May 2017.  I might have also 
expected the phone to still be available for inspection now.
So although  I accept  I cant  say for certain that the phone supplied to Mr C wasnt  faulty,  
given what I say above Im satisfied  that on the balance it wasnt.
I will now turn to Tescos decision to register the agreement  with various credit reference 
agencies as being in default.
I appreciate Mr C disputes that he should be held liable for a debt for a phone  that he says 
was supplied to him faulty. But notwithstanding I dont think Mr C was supplied  with a faulty 
phone, I cant  see that Tesco acted unfairly  or unreasonably in registering, and how it 
registered, Mr Cs agreement as being in default.
Tesco has been  able to provide our service with records that show, in my view, that it 
contacted Mr C on several occasions in 2014,  to say that payments against the agreement 
hadnt been made and the consequences of this, before a default  notice  was sent. And that 
a default notice was sent at the appropriate  time in the format prescribed under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my conclusions, but taking everything into account 
Im not persuaded that he was provided  with a faulty phone or that Tesco has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably  in registering  his agreement as being in default. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4874941