K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Clear Score Technology  Limited wont  remove data from his credit  file 
that he says is incorrect.
background
Mr W signed up for a service with Clear  Score for it to provide him with a copy of his credit 
file. Mr W noticed a number of searches on his credit file that he didnt recognise  or didnt 
give the businesses  permission to carry out. Some of these  searches  were carried  out by 
Clear Score. He contacted Clear Score to ask for all the disputed searches to be 
investigated and removed. 
Clear Score said it couldnt remove any of the searches carried out by the other businesses 
as it had no control over what  was recorded by them on Mr Ws credit file. It said it got the 
credit file from a credit  reference  agency (who Ill call agency  D). It said Mr W would have 
to complain to agency D to get the information updated. In relation to the searches Clear  
Score had carried out, it said this was done so that it could provide Mr W with the services 
hed signed up to. Clear Score didnt think these  had been reported  incorrectly or without Mr 
Ws permission. 
Our investigator didnt  think Clear  Score had done anything wrong. But Mr W disagreed.  In 
summary he said that as Clear Score held information about  him, it should be responsible  for 
making sure that information was correct. He said hed been in contact numerous times  with 
Clear Score, agency D and the businesses who reported the searches on his credit file. But 
despite this, he said the incorrect information was still being reported. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clear Score isnt a credit  reference agency  (CRA). Instead, it provides whats  known as 
credit information services (and some other regulated activities).  Unlike  a CRA,  no financial 
businesses or other relevant third parties  report data to Clear  Score.  Nor do other 
businesses use data held by Clear Score to assess an individuals  creditworthiness.  Instead, 
Clear Score offers (amongst other things)  consumers  the ability to see what is being  
reported by a CRA without paying  any fee. A fee would usually be payable to most CRAs for 
this information.  
Before it could access and store Mr Ws data, Clear  Score  required his permission to search 
his credit file which was held with agency  D. This was set out in the terms and conditions  
Mr W agreed to when  he set up his account  with Clear Score. As Mr W agreed to these 
terms when he signed up, I dont think Clear  Score did anything  wrong  in searching his credit  
file.
I can see that Clear Score has searched  Mr Ws credit file each month that hes been signed  
up to their service. This is because it cant provide Mr W with updated information about  
what is showing on his credit file with agency D, unless it carries out that search on his file. 
Ref: DRN40778912As Mr W agreed  for these  searches  to be carried out - when he agreed to the terms and 
conditions - I dont think Clear Score needs  to apply to remove them  from his credit file. 
Mr W repeatedly  asked  Clear Score to remove credit searches carried  out by other  
businesses from the data it held about him. Clear  Score correctly  told Mr W that it couldnt 
remove that information from his credit  file as it had no control over it. The only searches  it 
could seek to remove were the ones it carried  out itself. It forwarded Mr Ws complaints 
directly to agency D as they were better placed  to respond to his concerns. I dont think that 
was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr W says agency D hasnt  been responding appropriately to the complaints Clear Score 
forwarded to them. But this is an issue hed need  to take up with agency  D as they are a 
separate business to Clear Score. 
I agree  with Mr W that Clear Score can remove data it holds about him. But the information it 
held was only a copy of what it received from agency D. So even if Clear  Score  had 
removed the data it had on its own records, this wouldnt have resolved the underlying issue  
Mr W was having. This is because it wouldnt have had any effect on what was actually 
recorded on his credit file  as agency D, not Clear Score, was the creator of his credit file. 
I realise Mr W has found it very frustrating trying  to get his credit file amended. I can see hes 
been in contact with Clear  Score, agency D and other businesses on numerous occasions to 
get these issues  resolved.  But what Mr W wants,  Clear  Score cant  do and its told him that. 
For this reason I dont  think Clear  Score need to do anything to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4077891