K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs K. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1994 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs K was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.  Our 
adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs K disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs K has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. This is 
because:
 The form, which Mrs K signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, which  you make by 
ticking a box. So I think Mrs K would have known the PPI was optional. 
 It doesnt seem that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Mrs Ks individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mrs K to decide  whether it was suitable.
 However FICL did need  to give Mrs K clear  and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice.  And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough,  and I dont know what other 
information was given to Mrs K. So Ive thought about  whether  better  information  is 
likely to have made  a difference. But in Mrs Ks circumstances at the time, even if shed 
been given all the necessary information,  I dont think  its likely to have made a 
difference to her decision. I say this because its fairly likely that the PPI could have  
paid out for longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it would have been  in 
addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. Also Mrs K told us she didnt 
have alternative means to pay her living expenses and credit account for long, if she 
lost her income; and even if she did have this, she could have kept that in reserve for 
longer. So the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially  useful. Also it doesnt look 
like shed have been affected  by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ks complaint.
Ref: DRN40771102Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4077110