K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (trading as Audi Financial Services)  (VWFS)  
was not of satisfactory quality.
background 
Mr P entered into a HPA with VWFS  in January 2018 to acquire a new car. He says a few 
weeks later there was an issue with the central locking which  wasn't able to be repaired until 
there were software updates. Within  the first year Mr P says the car had to go back  to the 
garage five times for issues with the central  locking,  the car cutting out while  in drive mode, 
boot and spoiler issues, and problems with the Bluetooth  connectivity.
Mr P says he doesn't feel safe driving the car and that he shouldn't have experienced all the 
issues he has, given  the cost of the car.
VWFS says that Mr P experienced  issues with the central locking a month after he acquired 
the car and that two new keys were  ordered.  Further issues  with the key remote were  
reported in November 2018 and the main key and spare key were replaced.  It says that Mr P 
returned the car in October  2018  with a flat battery. It says this was charged overnight but 
due to faults with it a replacement was provided.  It didn't find an issue with the car's  spoiler.
VWFS says that two faults were found  with Mr P's car, one with the battery and the other 
with the keys. It says that these were repaired and that it was not proportionate for Mr P to 
be allowed to reject the car.
Our investigator didn't uphold this complaint. He said that the issues Mr P had raised with 
the car had been repaired  under warranty which  he thought  reasonable. He noted Mr P's 
comments that he had lost faith in the car but said this didn't mean  it was unsafe to drive.
Mr P didn't  accept our investigator's  view and asked  for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr P's car was not fault free. In February  2018, a month after acquisition, Mr P 
reported an issue with the central locking. Two new keys were ordered.  Had this 
resolved the issue  then I would have accepted this was a reasonable remedy;
Mr P experienced further issues with the central locking, and the key remotes  were  
replaced. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015,  a consumer has the right to reject if 
a repair  has been carried out and this has been unsuccessful. This was the case for 
Mr P;
VWFS said rejection of the car was not proportionate. But as Mr P had experienced a 
number of issues with the car as well as the central locking  I found  the fair resolution  
was for him to be allowed  to reject the car;
Ref: DRN46231162along with rejecting  the car, and the HPA being cancelled, I said that Mr P's deposit 
should be refunded.
Mr P was provided with a courtesy car when his car was being repaired (apart  from 
on the first visit). Therefore I thought it fair that Mr P was refunded  the payments 
relating to the five days he was without his car from 19 February 2018:
VWFS should pay Mr P £200  because of the inconvenience he was caused  by 
having to return  the car on a number of times  within the first year; 
the issues with the car reduced Mr Ps enjoyment and I thought  it fair Mr P was 
refunded 10% of his payments made  under the HPA because of this.
VWFS said that the deposit recorded  in the HPA included a dealer and manufacturer 
contribution. Therefore Mr P had only paid £4,511.92. Mr P then provided evidence of a 
payment of £7,000 which he said was the deposit amount he paid.  VWFS said that this 
amount was the deposit of £4,511.92 plus £2090.08 to cover negative  equity on his previous  
agreement. However  this left an amount of £398  that wasnt  accounted  for. VWFS agreed  
that this was put towards the new car and that it would be refunded along with the deposit  
amount giving a total refund of £4909.92 plus interest.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role is to consider each case  based 
on its merits. I take relevant regulations into account  but my decision is based  on what  I 
consider fair and reasonable given the unique  circumstances of each complaint.
Mr P acquired a new car through a HPA with VWFS. Under  the regulations, VWFS can be 
held liable  if the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. As the car was new 
at acquisition, it is reasonable that Mr P would  have expected it to be free from faults, 
including minor defects.
The car wasnt fault free and although repairs  were undertaken the issues  remained.  Given 
the issues experienced within the first year I though  it fair that Mr P be allowed  to reject the 
car and have the HPA cancelled.
The only additional information I received in response to my provisional decision was about 
the deposit amount. The HPA recorded  an amount of £14,511.92.  VWFS said that £10,000 
of this related  to dealer  and manufacturer contributions. 
Mr P provided evidence that he made  a payment of £7,000. This was explained by VWFS  as 
the deposit amount plus an amount to cover negative equity on a previous agreement. There  
was then a remaining amount of £398  which VWFS  agreed would be added  the deposit  
amount.
I have looked  at that the information provided  in regard to the deposit and I accept that that 
amount of £4909.92 (as agreed with VWFS) should  be refunded  as Mr Ps deposit amount 
along with interest.
Ref: DRN46231163my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited  
should:
1.collect the car at no cost to Mr P;
2.cancel the HPA with nothing further  owing;
3.refund  the deposit amount Mr P paid towards  the car (£4909.92);
4.refund  Mr P 10% of his payments made;
5.refund  Mr P for the time that he was without the car (five days from 19 February  2018);
6.pay Mr P £200 compensation for the trouble and upset he has been  caused.
Items 3, 4 and 5 are subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
If Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  considers that it's required by 
HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how 
much it's taken off. It should also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4623116