K821x#15complaint
Mr F has complained about esure Insurance Limiteds decision to sell his car when he made 
a claim under his car insurance policy. esure  had agreed to safeguard it as Mr F intended to 
pursue a claim against the manufacturer following a car accident  he and his wife were 
involved in.
background
In October  2018 Mr F and his wife were  unfortunately involved in a serious car accident  
involving another car which  was driving  at very high speed in a 30mph limit area.  
Mr and Mrs F were  both injured in the accident.  Mr F said he bought  the car specifically 
because of its safety features. He said that only one of the six airbags in their car deployed.  
Mr F asked  esure to safeguard the car and it agreed. Mr F made  arrangements for a private 
engineer to inspect  it as he wanted to consider legal action against  the manufacturer. 
However, when Mr F called to arrange  the inspection, esure  told him it had arranged for the 
car to be sold for disposal. Mr F complained to esure as he lost the opportunity to consider 
legal action against the manufacturer. 
esure apologised to Mr F for failing to safeguard the car as agreed. It said it would pay Mr F 
£250 compensation. 
In January 2019 Mr F brought  his complaint to us. He didnt think the compensation esure 
offered was enough to resolve  his complaint.
Our investigator thought esure hadnt done  enough to put things right. He agreed with esure  
that it couldnt compensate Mr F for a what if scenario. But he thought the level of distress  
and upset esure had caused by failing to safeguard Mr Fs car was significant in this case. 
So he recommended  esure increase the compensation award it should pay Mr F to a total of 
£750.
Mr F accepted the investigators findings.  He understands  esure  isnt responsible  for the 
accident they were  involved  in. But it is down  to esure that he can no longer find out why the 
airbags didnt deploy.
esure didnt  accept the investigators findings.  It said it followed our advice  in offering £250 
compensation when it contacted our helpline.  So it wants an ombudsman to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. 
esure accepts that it failed  to safeguard Mr Fs car. The remaining issue  is whether esure 
has paid a fair compensation award.  
No two cases are the same. I appreciate esure sought guidance from our helpline at the 
time, which it accepts isnt binding - but also said expects to be correct. Sometimes the 
advice given might  change when fully reviewing  the circumstances  of the complaint. This is 
the case here. 
Ref: DRN41894402Having been able to better understand the impact  of esures  error during  our investigation, I 
think its fair and reasonable for esure  to increase the compensation it pays  Mr F. 
Mr and Mrs F suffered injuries  which  are taking a long time to recover from as a result of the 
accident in October  2018. Even  so, Mr F took a great deal of time and effort in looking into 
the prospect of taking legal action against the manufacturer.  He asked esure  to safe guard 
the car. The car was a key part of the evidence needed if Mr F were to pursue legal action. 
We know it isnt possible to say whether Mr F would have decided to take legal action  or if 
such action would have  been successful. But I think esures error caused  Mr and Mrs F 
significant distress and disappointment  at an already difficult  time. So I think  a fair and 
reasonable award for compensation should be more than £250. I think the investigators  
recommendation sits within the range  of what Id consider fair for the circumstances of this 
case. 
This means  I think  esure  should  increase the compensation award to pays  Mr F to a total of 
£750. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure to pay Mr F a further £500 in 
addition to the £250 (if its already paid this) bringing the total compensation to £750. This is 
for the distress and inconvenience caused  by failing to safeguard Mr Fs car.
esure must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr F accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at a simple  rate of 8% a year.
If esure  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr F how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr F a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4189440