K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that his home insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc, wont pay his claim for 
damage to his garden wall.
background
In October  2017 part of Mr Ss rear boundary wall collapsed.  He made a claim to AXA in 
December 2017.  AXA appointed loss adjusters  who sent out a surveyor to review the 
damage. Mr S believed  it happened after excessive rain. On receiving the surveyors  report 
AXA declined the claim. It said that the damage was likely  due to wear and tear of the wall 
(which was over 50 years  old) and/or  poor design  as it wasnt built in a stable way contrary  
to building  regulations. It also said that there  were  no storm conditions on or about the date 
the damage occurred.
Mr S instructed his own surveyor.  That surveyor said he didnt know  of any particular 
building regulations that applied and certainly it was unlikely that there were  any in force  
when the wall was constructed.  He acknowledged  the wall had suffered wear and tear. Mr S 
pointed out that a different  part of the wall had collapsed previously and a claim he made for 
that had been accepted by his then insurer.
On referral to this service  our investigator  acknowledged there  was no storm at the time the 
damage took place.  But he noted that Mr S had extended accidental  damage cover. He 
believed the damage should  fall under that cover  and that AXA hadnt  shown  that wear  and 
tear was the dominant cause of the damage. Neither did he believe that AXA should  apply 
an exclusion  for gradual deterioration. So he said that AXA should meet  the claim.
AXA didnt agree, pointing out that the wall had suffered wear  and tear  it also believed the 
damage was due to gradual deterioration. It further  said that, from the point  of whether the 
damage could  be said to be unforeseen, the fact that Mr S had made a previous claim for 
another part of the wall would indicate  that it wasnt unexpected.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that whilst I agreed  that the damage could come  
under the accidental damage cover in the policy I thought that AXA had reasonably shown 
that the damage to the wall came under the wear and tear/gradual deterioration exclusion in 
the policy. So I felt its decline of the claim had been  fair and reasonable and didnt propose 
to uphold the complaint.
Mr S didnt accept my provisional  decision. He said that as the exclusion was ambiguous it 
should be resolved in his favour,  and it was for AXA to show the exclusion applied. He didnt 
think that AXA had shown that the damage  was caused by wear  and tear but it was due to 
excessive rainfall, which  should come  under  accidental damage.  He believed I should  revise 
my conclusions.
AXA has no further  comment to make.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Ref: DRN41292302storm
As AXA and our investigator have pointed out there  was nothing  that could be classified as a 
storm on or about the date of the damage. To clarify under  the policy storm damage would 
only be covered where there is a one off incidence of storm. The policy defines this as, A 
period of violent  weather defined as: wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots(55mph) 
accompanied by torrential  rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm  per hour.
Whist violent winds can occur at below the defined  windspeed, from the weather records for 
the week before and up to the date the wall collapsed there was nothing  approaching that. 
At the nearest weather station to Mr Ss home  the maximum recorded gust of wind was 
37mph. Im satisfied that there are no grounds  to fairly require AXA to deal with the claim 
under the storm  cover  in the policy.
accidental damage
Mr S does have extended accidental damage cover for his buildings  which includes the wall. 
There is no definition of accidental damage  in the policy. This service  regards  accidental  
damage as being  damage that is unexpected and unintentional.
The damage was clearly unintentional. I note AXAs argument that it wasnt unforeseen in 
light of the previous claim. I dont know why the previous  claim was paid, nor do I know  what 
was said to Mr S at the time about  the likelihood of the other part of the wall collapsing.  He 
wasnt questioned  about it and there are no details on AXAs  file. In light of that I dont think  
I can say that the damage wasnt unexpected. So, on the face of it, the accidental damage 
cover could apply.
exclusion for faulty workmanship
Under the accidental  damage cover in the policy, there is an exclusion for damage  arising  
from faulty workmanship, defective design  or use of defective materials. AXAs surveyor 
said the way the wall was constructed, doesnt  meet building  regulations.  AXA hasnt 
explained what regulations apply, nor what regulations applied  at the time the wall was 
constructed over 50 years ago. And I note that the newer wall has been built to the same 
specification as the wall that has collapsed. Therefore,  Im not persuaded that AXA can fairly 
rely on the exclusion for faulty workmanship/defective design to decline Mr Ss claim.
As neither party has raised any comment on those findings they are now final and form part 
of this final decision.
exclusion for wear and tear etc
In my provisional decision I said:
This exclusion, also to the accidental damage  cover, is for damage by wear and tear or 
gradually developing deterioration settlement or shrinkage of the buildings.
Our investigators view was that the gradually developing  part of this exclusion was limited  
to gradually  developing  deterioration settlement., meaning that it only applies  where  theres 
settlement. Which there isnt here. I dont think that interpretation makes sense, as the words  
Ref: DRN41292303deterioration settlement arent a meaningful phrase. The natural and, therefore, reasonable 
way to read this is that there are two parts to the exclusion:
wear and tear or gradually developing deterioration
settlement or shrinkage of the buildings
Given my reading of the exclusion  and the arguments raised  by AXA,  I need to consider 
whether it can rely on the wear and tear and/or gradually developing deterioration  part of 
the exclusion to decline Mr Ss claim.
I first of all bear in mind  that Mr S didnt report the claim  until two months after it happened.  
And his surveyor then reported  in April 2018.  From the photos it would appear that the 
blocks that had fallen had been neatly stacked. Nevertheless AXAs surveyors  report of 
December 2017  said the mortar had broken down and was crumbling  in my fingers.  And 
Mr Ss surveyor said It must be acknowledged  that the wall has suffered wear and tear 
being we believe  in excess of 54 years old.
The cause of the damage is summarised  in reports from both AXAs and Mr Ss surveyor.  
The report  from Mr Ss surveyor  says "The  wall is believed  to have failed as a consequence  
of excessive rainfall in recent months causing the sand behind the wall to shift and exert  
undue lateral forces  against it".
While the immediate cause of the wall collapsing was the sand and earth shifting and 
exerting pressure against the wall, it does beg the question of why that would  cause the wall 
to fall. It seems likely to me that a major part of the reason why the wall collapsed was 
because the mortar holding  it together was unstable and crumbling  which is a wear and 
tear process occurring  over time as mortar ages and weathers.
It also does seem likely to me that in light of the view that the sand had shifted  due to 
excessive rainfall over several  months,  that this was gradual deterioration. This is supported 
by the views set out by both experts.  So I think that AXA can reasonably rely on this 
exclusion to the accidental damage cover  to decline Mr Ss claim.
Mr S believes that I should construe this exclusion in his favour and find that the policy  only 
excludes gradually  developing  deterioration settlement. And I accept that where such   a 
term is ambiguous it should be resolved at the meaning that is most favourable  to the 
consumer. But I dont  think this term is ambiguous.  I think  any person reading the exclusion 
would understand that it is a list of four things, as Ive set out. I dont  think any other 
interpretation makes sense.
Mr S also says AXA hasnt proved that the crumbling  mortar caused the collapse of the wall. 
Or that there was gradual deterioration, as the damage was caused  by excessive rainfall. I 
think, whilst  we cant be certain of the exact sequence of events, that AXA and Mr Ss 
surveyor have shown  that it was most likely that the state of the wall coupled  with the 
excessive rainfall over a period of months,  not a one-off storm, caused the wall to collapse. I 
think this does show gradual deterioration  and so regrettably Mr Ss claim fails.
Ref: DRN41292304overall
Whilst I dont think  the exclusion for defective  design can be applied in this case, Im still 
satisfied that AXA can fairly apply the exclusion for damage caused by wear and tear and/or 
gradual deterioration of the wall.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4129230