K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that the vehicle she acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  
by BMW Financial  Services  (GB)  Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality. She wants to reject 
the vehicle and end the agreement.
background
Mrs R tells us she acquired this new vehicle in May 2017 from a dealer Ill refer to as C. 
She says shes reported recurring noises emitting from the vehicle and returned it to C on 
several occasions for repairs.  Despite numerous attempts at fixing the problem she says its 
still not been resolved. She wants to reject the vehicle  and end the agreement.
BMW told us that itd rejected Mrs Rs complaint as it was brought  outside the initial  six 
months after supply.  And it didnt  accept the faults had been present at the point of supply. It 
said that Mrs Rs vehicle  warranty  was serving  its purpose. It offered to refund two monthly  
payments (£476) as a gesture of goodwill to recognise the number  of visits Mrs R has made 
to C.
Our adjudicator issued  two views. In the first she thought  BMWs gesture of goodwill was fair 
and reasonable.  But, following Mrs R supplying further information,  she issued a revised 
view in which she recommended the complaint should be upheld. She thought a new vehicle 
should be fault free and noted that Mrs R had first complained of the noise within  the first six 
months. Our adjudicator found  that repeated attempts to repair the problem  hadnt  been 
successful. She thought  Mrs R should now be allowed to reject the vehicle.
BMW didnt agree and said it hadnt  been  shown that the faults were present at the point of 
supply. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to 
make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mrs R has experienced problems with this vehicle. When  she acquired  a new 
vehicle Im sure she was looking forward to an extended period of trouble free motoring. I 
can understand her frustration that this hasnt  turned  out to be the case.
Ive been provided  with a large  amount of information by the parties in this case.  And if I 
dont comment on an individual item, its not that I havent taken it on board. Its just that I 
dont think I need  to refer to it separately in order to give the reasons  for my decision. And 
where information is unclear or inconclusive  - as some of it is here - Im required to make  my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities.
Mrs Rs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. BMW supplied the vehicle and its therefore  
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act of 
2015 (CRA). Mrs R acquired her new vehicle  in May 2017.  The CRA requires goods to be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied and in the case of a new item that would  include  it being 
free from minor defects as well as durability. 
Ref: DRN41400312The information Ive been given shows she first complained in late October  2017  about an 
unexplained noise from the car. The warranty invoice from that visit shows  a diagnostic test 
was carried out and some adjustments made.
Since then the vehicle  has been taken back to C on several occasions. Mrs R reports a 
pattern of repairs having been attempted but says the noise keeps returning almost 
immediately after the cars been  returned to her. To give but two examples, I can see on 5 
November 2018  silicon was removed from both front door seals. But only a few weeks later,  
in early December 2018,  a further rattling sound  is reported from the pillar area of the front 
doors. Some protective  film was applied to one of the pillars.  This doesnt seem to have 
been successful  as on 20 February  2019,  I can see an invoice from C which  indicates  that 
an inspection revealed a noise to be still present. A note indicates  the noise reduced  after 
seals had been  cleaned and silicon removed. It then reported  the noise had disappeared 
after the door seals had been  replaced. But within a few days I see that Mrs R is complaining 
about the same fault which seems to be in keeping with the pattern of earlier events.
In its final response letter  to Mrs R, BMW stated that the manufacturers warranty  was still in 
force and serving its purpose.  And it went on to say that C would continue to work  on the 
vehicle until the problem was resolved. Whilst Im sure this was intended to offer some 
reassurance to Mrs R, I dont think it sufficiently  addressed the issues in her complaint. 
Whether a manufacturers  warranty is in force or not has no bearing on determining  if a 
vehicle was of satisfactory  quality  at the point  of supply. And whilst such a warranty can offer 
a consumer increased protection against faults which  might  arise - it cant  reduce  the 
protection which is available under legislation. Id also comment that just as the CRA doesnt 
offer a supplier of faulty goods an unlimited amount of opportunities to repair faults, neither 
do warranties last forever. The inference  to be drawn from BMWs letter is that Mrs R should  
simply expect  to have to keep returning  to C for warranty repairs,  presumably until such  time 
as the issue is resolved  or the warranty expires. I dont think  thats fair and reasonable.
I think its also a relevant consideration that Mrs R, under section 4 of the agreement, is 
required to keep the vehicle  in good  repair and condition. Clearly, shes tried to have  this 
issue dealt with but as it persists  and attempts at repairs dont seem to have worked there 
must be every chance the issue will remain until the end of the agreement. And this might 
put Mrs R in jeopardy of being liable for additional  charges upon termination.
Mrs R first reported  the noise in October  2017.  In February 2019, and following several visits 
to Cs garage in the interim period, theres  still an unexplained noise coming from the 
vehicle. On a balance of probabilities, it seems likely this is down to the same cause - even 
though it hasnt been positively identified. Whilst Mrs R had been able to drive the vehicle I 
can understand that a recurring  and persistent  noise  from an unexplained cause is likely to 
be disconcerting. And it shouldnt be happening so soon when a vehicle  is acquired  from 
new and has done only average mileage. The fact that C has been repeatedly dealing with 
the issue under the vehicle warranty allows me to infer that it accepts theres  nothing  wrong  
with the way Mrs R has treated the vehicle.
Im satisfied that on the information provided, the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the 
point of supply.  The vehicle should have been free from even  minor  defects  and the 
recurring problem  undoubtedly affects  the level of comfort and satisfaction that was to be 
expected when driving a new vehicle.
Ref: DRN41400313Mrs R has allowed a number of attempts  to be made  at repairs  and her patience  is entitled to 
be exhausted at the failure to resolve the issue. Whilst  I recognise  its now some two and 
half years  after supply  I dont think she should  be penalised for the delays. BMW  has had the 
chance to put things  right since October 2018 and its declined to do so. In these 
circumstances I think its fair and reasonable to allow  Mrs R to reject  the vehicle subject to 
payment for fair use. Im therefore upholding her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  of the complaint I now require BMW  Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to take the following action:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  for Mrs R to pay ( subject to payments being 
up to date) from the date of termination;
2.Arrange collection  of the vehicle at no cost to Mrs R;
            
3.Refund any deposit paid by Mrs R;
4.Refund three monthly payments  to reflect impaired  use;
5.Pay £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience;
6.Arrange to have  the record of the agreement removed from Mrs Rs credit file.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to sums arising from items 3 and 
4 above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4140031