K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) didnt do enough 
affordability checks before lending  him money.
background
Mr G had two instalment loans from Mr Lender  between October 2016 and January 2017 as 
follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Due Max Repayment Repaid
1 14 Oct 2016 £200 3m 26 Jan 2017 £138.66 On time
2 27 Jan 2017 £350 6m 26 Jul 2017 £136.73 2 May 2017
Mr G says his pattern of borrowing should have alerted Mr Lender to the need to carry out 
further checks. He says this would have shown the loans were unaffordable,  not least  
because of his gambling expenditure.
Mr Lender says it asked Mr G about his income and verified this with a copy  of his payslip. It 
says it also asked him about his expenditure and checked his credit file. Mr Lender  says 
that, based on the information it had, it was satisfied the loans were  affordable.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that Mr 
Lender had done enough checks  when Mr G applied for the loans  and, based  on that 
information, he couldnt conclude it was wrong  to approve them.
Mr G responded to say, in summary, that other  similar complaints had been upheld.  He said 
that whilst  he accepted the view on loan 1, he considered Mr Lender  should have asked 
further questions  when he borrowed almost twice the amount the day after repaying his first 
loan. He added that the number of short-term loans  on his credit file should  also have 
indicated to Mr Lender that it needed to do further  checks. Mr G also pointed out that hed 
borrowed from Mr Lender for nine months  with no further checks  and that his bank 
statements showed significant gambling expenditure. Finally he said hed had a complaint 
upheld against  another business because it had carried out more thorough checks  that 
indicated his potential  financial  difficulties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks  to make  sure Mr G 
could afford  to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr G was borrowing, and his lending  history.  But 
there was no set list of checks Mr Lender  had to do.
Loan 1
When Mr G applied for his first loan from Mr Lender, it asked for information about his 
income and expenditure and checked  his credit file. As the highest repayment was a small 
proportion of Mr Gs income, Im satisfied Mr Lenders checks  went far enough and there  
was nothing to indicate the loan was unaffordable.
Ref: DRN46807642Loan 2
Mr G repaid the first loan on time and, one day later, applied for a further  loan of £350. As 
the loan was to be repaid with six instalments, the highest repayment  was still under £140. 
Mr Lender calculated Mr Gs disposable  income  was over £700, so also found  this loan to be 
affordable. I cant say it was wrong  to do so.
I acknowledge what Mr G says about  what his credit file showed  at the time, but I have  seen 
the results of the credit checks carried out by Mr Lender. A business isnt obliged to carry out 
credit checks but, when it does, it needs  to take the information into account when making 
lending decisions.  In this case, Mr Lender received specific  information from its credit check  
including data about Mr Gs defaults,  bankruptcy status and delinquent  accounts, alongside 
his credit score. None  of this would have  indicated to Mr Lender that it should have cause for 
concern about  affordability. I accept  Mr Gs full credit file shows a number of short-term  
loans at the same time as his Mr Lender borrowing, but Mr Lender didnt have this 
information in the credit check results it received. So I cant say it should have carried out 
further checks on that basis.
Similarly, a business isnt obliged to review  bank statements before approving loan 
applications. When the checks it carries out are considered  to be proportionate to the 
circumstances of the lending, as is the case here, it is entitled to make  its lending decisions 
based on the information it has. I accept that Mr Gs bank  statements show a significant 
spend on gambling, but as Im satisfied with the level of checks  carried out by Mr Lender, I 
cant say it should  have reviewed his bank  statements before agreeing to the loans.
I acknowledge Mr G has had complaints against  other businesses upheld,  but I need to 
consider each case on its individual merits.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4680764