K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that MYJAR  Limited  (Myjar)  acted irresponsibly  when  it gave her 
unaffordable loans.
background
This complaint is about 7 loans Myjar provided to Miss D between  August 2018 and January 
2019 
Miss D took out loans  that were due to be paid back by way of 3 monthly instalments  
except for loan 7 which she took out over 6 monthly repayments  . 
And except  for loan 7, she repaid the loans  early  but she hasnt yet repaid  the last loan she 
took out. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:  
Loan Date
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 16/08/2018 08/09/2018 3 £100.00 £51.07
2 14/09/2018 20/09/2018 3 £100.00 £51.60
3 30/09/2018 02/11/2018 3 £125.00 £66.67
4 12/11/2018 16/11/2018 3 £100.00 £52.21
5 02/12/2018 20/12/2018 3 £125.00 £65.46
6 27/12/2018 03/01/2019 3 £175.00 £87.84
7 05/01/2019 outstanding 6 £500.00 £153.86
Miss D said that she had become dependent  on payday  loans and fell into a cycle of borrowing 
to repay loans  including loans from other high cost lenders.
Myjar didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint  in its final response letter  it mainly  said it relied on 
information from Miss D and its checks were proportionate. After we got involved,  Myjar 
reviewed its position  and told us that it could now see that loans 5-7 may have been 
unsuitable because  it didnt demonstrate  enough change  in checks  during  heavy  account  
usage.  Myjar made an offer in respect of loans  5 and 6 in line with what  wed expect to put 
things right  although  it didnt  mention anything about loan 7.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint in part. He didnt feel hed seen enough  to say that 
Myjar shouldnt have  lent loans 1-3  but he thought  that Myjar shouldnt have approved 
loans 4-7 and he recommended steps that Myjar should take to put things right for Miss D  
on top of what  Myjar  had already offered to do in relation to loans 5 and 6. 
Myjar disagreed with our adjudicator and said our adjudicators view lacked detail and 
reasoning.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN48095362Myjar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss D could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Myjar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Myjar was required to establish whether Miss D could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a borrower could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  this is the case. This is 
because the  relevant  regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ds complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Myjar to give Miss D loans 1 to 3 on the 
basis of the information she gave about  her income  and outgoings. It was early in the 
lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Myjar to agree to lend. As 
Miss D hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation  to loans 
1-3, I dont  think that I need to say more about  them.
And Myjar has already  offered to put things right along the lines Id recommend for loans 5 
and 6. So I will focus on the loans which remain in dispute  loan 4 and loan 7.
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ds case, I think  that Myjar should reasonably 
have realised that loan 4 wasnt  likely to be sustainably affordable  for Miss D and it shouldnt  
have provided  this loan. 
Ref: DRN48095363I say this because:  
when Miss D took out loan 4, Myjar could see that this was the third time in a row that 
shed borrowed again soon after shed repaid a previous loan. This suggests that she 
was having problems managing her money and couldnt afford to pay back what  
shed borrowed without borrowing again
Miss D took out loan 2 within six days of repaying loan 1, and it looks  like she took 
out loan 3 just ten days after she repaid  loan 2  and she also asked for a bit more 
money. She took out loan 4 ten days after paying loan 3 
loan 4 was for slightly less money  than loan 3  but I think Myjar shouldve  realised  
that overall there were clear indications  that Miss D was having money problems
her track record of repeatedly borrowing again  after early repayment of the previous 
loan indicates  that Miss Ds finances were unstable  and she was having difficulty  
managing her spending on borrowing  
I think Myjar ought to have realised it was likely  Miss D was having to borrow further  
to cover a shortfall in her finances  each time she paid the previous loan  so it 
shouldve realised  that this was unsustainable for her. 
For these reasons, I dont  think  it was reasonable for Myjar to think that it was likely Miss D 
would be able sustainably  to repay  loan 4, or any further loans.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Myjars lending history with Miss D, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Myjar should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Myjar  should have realised that it shouldnt  
have provided  any further loans.  
I think that this point was reached by loan 7. My reasons for saying this are that:
Miss D had already  taken out six loans with Myjar since  shed first asked for loan 1 
around six months or so earlier and there had been no significant breaks in lending 
whilst  the loan amounts had gone up and down, by loan 7 it was evident  that Miss D 
wasnt making any real inroads into the amount she owed. Loan 7 was for 
significantly more than any single  previous  loan shed  taken  out and a pattern  of 
dependency was apparent in respect  of her borrowing
at this point, Myjar ought to have known that Miss D was not likely borrowing to meet 
a temporary shortfall in income but to meet an ongoing need
and that Miss Ds indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably
this is borne out by the fact that Miss D has a balance outstanding on loan 7.
Ref: DRN48095364I think that Miss D lost out when Myjar provided  loan 7 because this loan had the effect of 
unfairly prolonging Miss Ds indebtedness by allowing her to take expensive credit over an 
extended period  of time. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 through to 7 and Myjar should put things right.
putting things right  what Myjar needs to do
If Myjar has sold the outstanding debt it should buy this back before  doing what I have 
outlined below. If Myjar isnt able to buy the debt back  then it should  liaise  with the new debt 
owner to achieve  the following:
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss D towards interest,  fees and 
charges on loan 4, as well as on loans  5 and 6 as Myjar has already offered to do 
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Miss D which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss D originally  made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 7, and treat any 
repayments made by Miss D as though they had been repayments of the principal. If this 
results in Miss D having made overpayments then these should be refunded with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would have 
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Myjar should then refund the amounts calculated  
in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining outstanding on loan 7. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus  should be paid to Miss D. However if there is still an outstanding balance  
then Myjar (or the third party debt owner) should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Miss D. 
E) Remove any adverse  information from Miss Ds credit file for loans 4 to 6. The overall 
pattern of Miss Ds borrowing for loan 7 means  any information recorded  about this loan is 
adverse. So all entries about  loan 7 should  be removed from Miss Ds credit  file. And Myjar 
should ask any debt purchaser  to do the same. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to deduct  tax from this interest. Myjar should give 
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN48095365my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Miss Ds complaint about  loans  4, 5, 6 and 7. MYJAR 
Limited (Myjar) should pay Miss D as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4809536