K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about esure  Insurance Limiteds poor service and standard  of repairs  
when he made a claim under his car insurance  policy. 
background
Mr P contacted esure to make a claim following an incident in November 2018.  esure  
arranged for Mr Ps car to be repaired by an approved repairer (AR) in December 2018. 
Mr P was unhappy with the repairs. So esure  arranged for the AR to rectify the repairs. It 
paid Mr P £100 compensation in December  2018.  
Mr P remained unhappy  with the rectification  repairs. So in January 2019  esure  arranged  for 
an independent assessor (IA) to inspect Mr Ps car. Mr P took the day off work to meet  with 
the assessor.
The IA reported that some of the repairs were poor, and that some  incident related repairs  
had been missed by the AR. esure agreed  that Mr P could take his car to a garage of his 
choice to have  the rectification repairs carried out. It asked  him to obtain an estimate first 
and send this to the IA. Im not sure if it paid or offered  Mr P a further  £100  compensation 
and £50 for his time in taking a day off work. Ive addressed this later in my decision. 
In February 2019  Mr P obtained an estimate from a dealership garage which he sent to the 
IA. In March 2019  esure  agreed that it would  settle  Mr Ps claim by paying him a total loss 
settlement. This was because the estimate  made it uneconomical for esure to repair Mr Ps 
car. 
Our investigator thought that esure should  pay Mr P a further £50 in addition  to the £250 
already paid as Mr P had taken a further day off work in February 2019 to arrange the 
estimate. 
esure didnt  agree. It provided a call recording where it said it explained  to Mr P that it would 
pay a further £100  for the further inconvenience caused by the second set of repairs   and 
that this clearly meant future work required.  
esure said Mr P chose a garage further away  from his home when there  were  several  closer  
to him. It agreed to pay £50 for Mr P attending  the IAs assessment at its operating  hours 
was from Monday to Friday. But the garage  Mr P chose was open at the weekends  and he 
therefore didnt  need to take a day off work  during the week to obtain an estimate. It had 
offered him a hire car for the duration  of the repairs. So esure said it already fairly 
compensated Mr P for any future inconvenience  in having to obtain  an estimate. 
Mr P said if the AR had properly inspected his car after the incident  in November 2018, he 
believes esure would have reached its decision to settle his claim as a total loss sooner. 
He tried to book an appointment at a closer dealership garage but they were very busy. So 
to avoid further delay he booked a mid week appointment with a dealership  garage 25 miles 
away. It made sense for him to wait while the garage inspected his car  rather than arrange  
travel to go elsewhere and then go back to the garage to collect  his car. 
Ref: DRN49070862It wasnt convenient for Mr P to do this as it was as a result of poor repairs  carried  out by 
esures AR and he wanted to get the matter resolved as quickly as possible. Mr P said he 
had the embarrassment and worry of driving a damaged car for two months.  
The investigator said that esures  offer of a hire car to Mr P didnt help him when obtaining  
the estimate it required. Mr P still had the inconvenience of arranging that and the 
investigator thought  Mr P had done all he could to mitigate his circumstances. So the 
investigator remained of the view that esure  should pay Mr P a further £50 compensation for 
the inconvenience caused in taking time off in February 2019 to obtain an estimate.  
Mr P accepted the investigators recommendation.
esure didnt  agree. So the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The remaining  issue  for me to decide is whether esure has fairly  compensated Mr P for the 
inconvenience it caused him. I dont think it has and I agree that it should  pay Mr P a further 
£50. Ill explain why. 
esure has paid Mr P a total of £250  for the poor service and inconvenience  caused by the 
poor repairs of the AR up until the end of January 2019. This includes an award  of £50 for 
the inconvenience Mr P was caused  in attending  the IAs inspection. I think  this is fair. 
Ive listened to the recording of the call esure has provided. It doesnt  discuss any 
compensation with Mr P during  this call. 
But in any event, I think its fair and reasonable for esure to pay Mr P a further £50 
compensation for the time he took to arrange an estimate in February  2019.  esure had 
agreed he could  take his car to a garage of his choice.  I can understand why Mr P wanted to 
use a dealership garage given his experience with the AR after two sets of repairs.  And I can 
also understand his desire to get the matter resolved as soon as possible  - as by then it had 
been three months since the incident. 
It seems  the actions taken  by Mr P were entirely reasonable  and ultimately wouldnt have 
been necessary  if esures AR had properly repaired his car in December 2018. So I think 
esure should pay Mr P a further £50 compensation for the inconvenience of arranging an 
estimate. 
Ref: DRN49070863my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr P a further £50 compensation for the inconvenience it caused him in arranging an 
estimate in February  2019. For the avoidance  of doubt, the total award  of compensation 
Mr P should  receive  is £300  if esure hasnt already paid the £250 offered. 
esure must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr P accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at a simple  rate of 8% a year.
If esure  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr P how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr P a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4907086