K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that the Royal  Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt advise her of the 
exchange rate implications when she made  she made an international transfer. As a result  
she says she lost approximately £1,800.  She would like this amount refunded. And 
compensation.
background
Mrs A says in August 2018 she had an urgent need to transfer funds to Canada.  She lives 
abroad but says as she was in the UK at the time she arranged to make  the transfer  through  
her RBS account. 
She says she understood that the funds would remain  as CAD whilst in her RBS account. 
But says that the funds  were transferred into pounds (GBP) into her RBS account .And then 
back into CAD when the funds were sent to the Canadian recipient account. She says as a 
result of two exchange rates being  applied she lost around £1,800.
She says had she known  this would have been the case she would  have made the transfer 
via her CAD  account  in the country she lives in.
RBS said it didnt wrongly advise Mrs A. It listened  to the phone call she made  and said she 
didnt make it clear she wished her funds  to remain as CAD.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found Mrs A had a sterling account not a 
currency account. This meant that any payment received into this account would be 
converted to GBP.  So she didnt feel RBS had done anything  wrong.  
RBS accepted this view but Mrs A didnt.She said that in a phone call dated 17 August 2018 
it should have  been clear  that the funds were to be received  and paid out in CAD. 
She feels RBS should have made  it clear that she couldnt open  a CAD account and should  
have explained  how she could transfer  the money and what  the cost implication would be. 
She says RBS told her the transfer would cost £8.50. She feels  any reasonable person 
would expect to be told the difference between the buy and sell rates as this was a 
significant cost.
Our adjudicator considered these points  but didnt change her view. She acknowledged in 
the phone  call Mrs A asked if she needed  to open a CAD  account.   But she didnt make it 
clear she wanted the funds to remain in CAD. She didnt feel RBS needed  to advise Mrs A of 
this as she didnt  specifically ask this. And as Mrs A confirmed  she knew she had RBS 
sterling not a currency account that she would  have been aware that funds in the account  
would have had to have been in GBP.
Mrs A didnt accept this second view. She queried  why anyone would pay £1,800  to transfer  
money when there were  other ways  to do so. She also felt as RBS chose not to offer 
currency accounts to personal customers it was incumbent on RBS to make it clear to 
customers there would  be a cost associated with such  transfers.
Ref: DRN42522972my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that when Mrs A arranged an international  transfer  payment through  her 
RBS account  that her funds were transferred from CAD to GBP and then from GBP to CAD  
meaning the transactions were subject  to two exchange rates.
The main  issue here seems to be if RBS should have told Mrs A that the funds  would be 
transferred in this way or not. Mrs A says had she been made aware  of this she would have 
realised the cost implications and done the transfer  a different way.
Ive listened to the phone call that Mrs A made. Mrs A asks if she needs to open a CAD  
account. RBS explain  to her that she doesnt need to do this. That she can receive payments 
into her UK account from any currency and that she can make an international payment from 
her UK account. From what I understand that information is correct. It might  have been 
helpful if RBS had flagged up the exchange rate issue but Mrs A didnt  ask about this.  
Mrs A has told us she knew her UK account was a sterling account  not a currency account.  
So I think she might  reasonably have known that money paid into this account  would be in 
GBP not in a foreign currency. And I think she could have specifically queried this in her 
phone call but she didnt  do so. 
I am surprised Mrs A didnt  ask about  the process and how it would work particularly as she 
has told us she lives abroad  and is familiar  with foreign exchange transactions, international 
bank transfer  and foreign exchange  charges. She has also told us she has a Canadian dollar 
account in the country where she lives so she could  have used that to make the transfer. 
And had she done so the payment would have gone  through in the same timescale. In that 
case I am not sure why Mrs A didnt choose to make her transfer in that way.
So on this basis I dont  feel I can reasonably ask RBS to refund the exchange rate losses 
Mrs A says she incurred or to compensate her as she has requested.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 February  2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4252297