K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about the administration of his mortgage account  by Bank of Scotland 
Plc (trading  as Birmingham Midshires, and referred  to here as BM) specifically in relation to 
the way arrears have  been dealt with and the impact of this on the monthly repayments.  
Mr B is also unhappy at BMs handling  of his complaints. To settle the matter, Mr B wants 
BM to pay him compensation for distress and inconvenience.
background
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
I also note that the history  of the matter  has been  set out in detail by the investigator in his 
letter dated  29 October 2020.  Both parties  have a copy of that letter,  so there is no need for 
me to repeat all the details here.
Briefly, in 2006 Mr B took out a mortgage with BM. He borrowed £1,015,000 on an interest-
only basis over a term of 15 years. The mortgage was at a fixed  rate of 4.69%  until 1 March  
2008, following  which it reverted to a variable rate of 1.00% above  Bank  of England  Base 
Rate. 
I am sorry  to note that Mr B experienced some financial difficulties and the account fell into 
arrears, which  were  consolidated in 2010. In 2016  Mr S raised concerns with BM that his 
monthly payments  were incorrect. this was prompted by a letter Mr B had received about an 
increase in his mortgage repayments.  BM looked  into this and discovered  an error had been 
made in 2010  which  had led to the account  being underfunded (which  means  that the 
payments made to the account were too low).  BM took responsibility for this.  A credit of 
£11,673.31 was made  to the mortgage account and arrears fees of £715 plus interest were 
removed. Mr B was offered compensation of £300.
Mr B didnt feel this had resolved his concerns, and raised further  queries. I note from the 
case history that BOS accepted it had made another error in February 2017, which BOS 
resolved in June  2017 by offering compensation of £500 and reducing the balance by 
£1,923.13.
But Mr B remained unhappy and still thought his account balance  was incorrect.  BM 
disagreed, but offered Mr B £150  compensation. This was because BM didnt think it had 
explained things  clearly enough, and for delay in responding to the complaint.
Ref: DRN48069602Mr B still thought his account balance was incorrect. He continued to query this and 
eventually, in May 2019, BM confirmed to Mr B that it hadnt accurately calculated  the 
mortgage payment.  As a result, Mr B hadnt  paid the correct amount  towards  his mortgage, 
resulting in a deficit. BM made  an adjustment  to the account of £34,771.33 to address this.
Dissatisfied with BMs response,  Mr B contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service. He 
believes his account  balance is still incorrect and that BM should  make further adjustments  
and pay him compensation.
An investigator looked at the complaint. He was satisfied that, after BM had made the 
adjustments to the account in 2016  and 2019,  the account was running as it should. The 
investigator provided Mr B with the breakdown of how this was calculated by BM. Mr B has 
now acknowledged that his mortgage balance and monthly payments are correct.
The investigator was also satisfied that thered been  delay by BM in responding Mr Bs 
queries and that communication between its internal offices  could have been better.
But Mr B says that Bs errors  have  caused him significant worry and distress. (To ensure 
Mr Bs anonymity is maintained I will not give any further detail than this, but I confirm Ive 
noted everything Mr B has said about  this.)
The investigator thought about  the compensation that BM had offered to Mr B, to see if there 
was anything further that needed to be paid. He noted that over the course of the period 
covered by this complaint BM had offered a total of £1,150 compensation. He thought BM 
should pay a further £400 compensation, making a total of £1,550.
BM agreed to this, but Mr B did not. He is concerned that the Financial Ombudsman Service  
is not going to fine BM, and he doesnt  think the additional £400 compensation 
recommended by the investigator is adequate.
As the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision on the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive taken note of everything Mr B and BM have said. I will explain at the outset that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not a regulator, and so we have no power to fine or 
sanction BM. Our role, defined by the Financial  Services  and Markets Act 2000, is limited  to 
investigating individual complaints against  financial businesses. We have no supervisory 
powers over these businesses.
The underlying issue in this complaint  the incorrect account balance   has now been 
resolved. Mr B has confirmed that he accepts the balance  and repayments  are now 
accurate. Im also satisfied BMs customer service  could have been better in relation to the 
way Mr Bs complaints were dealt with, and that there was some delay in responding to him 
as a result  of poor internal  communication. BM has acknowledged this.
As the complaint issues about account administration and customer  service have been 
resolved, the only issue I need to decide  is the level of compensation payable  to Mr B.
Ref: DRN48069603Having looked  at the history of the matter and the compensation already offered of £1,150, I 
agree with the investigator that this is not sufficient, given the length of time its taken  for this 
matter to be resolved.  A further payment  of compensation  is warranted, and Im satisfied  that 
£400 is fair and reasonable.  This brings the total compensation to £1,550, which  is a 
significant award and which I am satisfied is fair, reasonable  and proportionate to the trouble 
and upset caused by BM.
I appreciate Mr B will probably disagree  that this is fair, and I know  this decision is not the 
outcome he wanted.  I can tell from his correspondence that Mr B has little confidence that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service will be able to provide him with an outcome with which  he 
will be satisfied,  but Mr B is under  no obligation to accept my final decision. If he decides  not 
to, it will not be legally-binding  on him or BM, and Mr B will be free to pursue his grievances 
against BM in court, should he wish to do so. I would suggest Mr B takes advice from a 
solicitor, if he is considering legal action against  BM.
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland Plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) must  pay 
Mr B compensation totalling £1,550 in full and final settlement of his complaint. I make no 
other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means  that we are unable to consider the complaint any further,  nor enter  into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2021.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4806960