K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Skrill Limited (Skrill) wont  refund disputed transactions made  from his 
account.
background
Mr N says that on 17 February 2019,  five transactions  totalling 20,440  Bulgarian  Lev were  
made from his account without his knowledge.
Mr N says that he tried to log into his Skrill account  but was unsuccessful because  the 
password wasnt recognised. But that the next day when he tried to log in again,  he was 
successful with the same user id and password. Mr N says that at this time he noticed the 
money was missing from his account. 
Mr N also told us that:
no one knows the login details to his account,
he received four emails on 17 February 2019  from the company that the disputed 
funds were sent to, informing him that the transactions were  successful,
he immediately changed his email address once he knew his account  had been  
breached.
Mr N got in touch with Skrill and asked them to refund him for the transactions.
Skrill investigated Mr Ns complaint, but declined to refund the transactions  saying:
his account  was accessed  without  any incorrect attempts to guess his login 
credentials,
the person  who accessed his account must  have been  aware  of Mr Ns email  
address, account  password and PIN; therefore
Mr N hadnt taken  due care in keeping his account credentials  secure.
Mr N wasnt happy with Skrills response, so he brought  a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ns complaint  and didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary, she felt it most likely Mr N had authorised the transactions  as she 
couldnt see how an unknown third party wouldve accessed the information needed in order 
to access his account. 
Mr N responded saying that the account couldve  been compromised  by a representative of 
Skrill, and that he needs us to investigate and find out who committed the crime.
As Mr N disagreed with the investigators opinion,  the case  was passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And where there is a dispute  about what  
happened, and the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I reached my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on what I consider is most likely  to have happened 
in light of the available evidence.
Ref: DRN47926802Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously  set out and for much the same reasons. 
Generally, Skrill can hold Mr N liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence suggests  
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised them  himself. 
Im satisfied from Skrills technical evidence  that Mr Ns account credentials including  his 
email address and account password were used to login to his account and carry out the 
transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is not, on its own, enough to 
enable Skrill  to hold him liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests  
that its more likely than not that Mr N consented to the transactions  being made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Skrill to conclude that Mr N 
authorised the transactions and Ill explain why.
Skrill have provided  evidence which shows that Mr Ns account was successfully  accessed  
on 17 February 2019 to make these payments. The evidence  shows  no failed login  attempts 
on this day or the day prior. This means that whoever accessed the account was aware  of 
Mr Ns login credentials and got them right the first time they tried to login. 
Mr N has told us that he didnt share  his login details with anyone  and that they were  only 
kept in a notebook in a locked drawer inside his home, and that he lives alone. So, its 
unclear how someone  wouldve got access to Mr Ns login information. Additionally Skrill told 
us that Mr N completed a questionnaire about  this dispute, saying that he didnt receive any 
suspicious emails asking  for his account information, he didnt download any mobile 
applications related to Skrill  onto his phone, he didnt  use the same password for his email, 
he doesnt save his passwords in his browser and he only logs in from his home.
Even if I only rely on what Mr N has directly told us, he hasnt provided us with any possible 
scenario whereby someone else, either known or unknown to him, couldve gained access  to 
his account information. 
Therefore having  taken  everything into account, I find on balance,  that its more  likely than 
not that Mr N authorised  the disputed transactions. And, it follows  that Skrill is entitled to hold 
him liable for them.
I appreciate that Mr N is going to be disappointed with the answer  Ive reached.  And, I know  
that he felt strongly  that a Skrill representative mayve  accessed his account. But our role 
isnt to identify  who specifically mayve accessed  the account.  The decision I had to reach 
was whether I think it was more  likely  than not that Mr N had consented  to these 
transactions and based on the evidence I do. The claims  Mr N is making against Skrill would 
be better addressed  with law enforcement or other  options outside of our service.
Ref: DRN47926803my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 December 2020.
Lisa Lowe 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4792680