K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement  with 
Black Horse  Limited was not of satisfactory  quality. He wants to reject the car.
background 
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 5 April 2019, a 
copy of which is attached. I concluded that the complaint  should  be upheld  because the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. Black Horse  had already accepted  this 
and had agreed to accept  Mr Cs rejection of the car. But I set out in my provisional decision 
what action I thought Black Horse  needed  to take and what  compensation should be paid. 
I gave both parties the opportunity to provide further evidence or information in response to 
my provisional decision. Black Horse didnt reply.  Mr C said he agreed with my decision and 
said he could provide proof of his payments and other costs if required.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information or evidence,  I find no reason to depart 
from my earlier conclusions.  If Mr C wants to accept this decision,  he can provide the various  
receipts required either to this service, or directly to Black Horse so that compensation can 
be paid.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Black Horse  
Limited should:
1.Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
2.Collect the car at no cost to Mr C.
3.Refund Mr Cs deposit.
4.Return  Mr Cs private number plate and cover  any reasonable associated  costs, subject 
to receipts being provided.
5.Refund 50% of the monthly payments made from June 2018 to October  2018  inclusive.
6.Refund 100% of the monthly payments  made from,  and including,  November 2018 to 
the date the agreement is cancelled.
7.Refund the car insurance costs for the period from November 2018  to date, together  
with any cancellation  fee, once proof of cost has been  provided  by Mr C.
8.Pay Mr C £250 compensation.
9.Remove the finance agreement from Mr Cs credit file.
Ref: DRN46531072Items 3, 5, 6 and 7 are subject to 8% simple interest  from the date of payment  to the date of 
settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Black Horse Limited to take off tax from this interest. Black 
Horse Limited must give Mr C a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN46531073copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr C complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement  with 
Black Horse  Limited was not of satisfactory  quality. He wants to reject the car.
background
Mr C obtained a new car in August 2017 using a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse.
In May 2018, he complained to Black  Horse about a number of faults with the car. He said 
repairs had been  carried out, but some faults  hadnt been fixed. He wanted  to reject the car.
Black Horse  arranged an independent  report. This concluded that two faults were present, or 
developing, when the car was supplied and that these faults hadnt been  fixed and needed 
further investigation:
The stop/start system  intermittently didnt work as expected  and needed further 
investigation.
There was a rattling noise from the exhaust/turbo area.
Black Horse  asked Mr C to take the car to one of the manufacturers garages and obtain a 
quote for repairs. And it offered  to pay him £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
But Mr C still wanted to reject the car, so brought his complaint to our service. Since then, he 
reported further problems with the car which he said seem to be connected with the turbo. 
He was worried about the safety of the car and, because  he needed a car for work, decided 
to obtain another one. So, since June 2018, hes been paying for two cars.
Our adjudicator concluded that, although the car had been in an independent garage more 
than once for repairs, Black Horse  hadnt  had the opportunity to attempt a repair of the two 
outstanding items since the independent  report was completed. She thought Black Horse  
should be given  an opportunity to repair the faults and that, if this was unsuccessful, Mr C 
would then have  the right to reject the car.
Mr C accepted that conclusion and a repair was attempted. But after that Mr C had to return  
the car to the garage with a new problem with the clutch. And he said the start/stop fault 
hadnt been satisfactorily fixed.
Black Horse  didnt provide  evidence that the faults  had been fixed, so our adjudicator  
recommended that Mr Cs complaint be upheld.
She concluded that Black Horse should:
Arrange to collect the car from Mr C at no expense to him.
Cancel the agreement in a way that doesnt negatively affect his credit  file.
Pay Mr C £250 for loss of enjoyment.
Black Horse  said it accepted the adjudicators conclusions  because of the ongoing issues  
Mr C was experiencing with the car.
Ref: DRN46531074Mr C said he agreed with the adjudicators conclusions but that, in addition, he wanted:
Monthly  payments under the terms of the agreement to be refunded  for the period from 
June 2018 to date. He said that since June 2018 hed only driven the car around 2,200 
miles because of concerns for his safety.  And he said that, although  hed been supplied  
with a courtesy car on some  occasions, this was a smaller car which wasnt suitable  for 
him.
The cost of insurance to be reimbursed.
The cost of transferring his private number plate to be refunded.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement.  As such,  this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. Black Horse is the supplier of goods under this 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of goods is satisfactory.  As such,  in order to uphold this complaint I would have 
to be persuaded  that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when Mr C acquired  it, and so a 
breach of contract has taken place.
In deciding whether  a car is of satisfactory  quality, some of the factors  to consider are its age 
when it was supplied,  how much mileage the car covered  since it was supplied  and how long 
after supply the fault materialised. 
The car in this case was new when it was supplied at the end of August 2017, so I would 
expect it to be free from faults. But I can see Mr C had to take the car to a garage in early  
October 2017 because  of some faults, including  the stop/start and a noise from the turbo.  
The faults were  reported  around a month after the car was supplied, and had only been 
driven around 900 miles. So I dont think the car was of satisfactory  quality when it was 
supplied. This is supported by the independent inspection that was carried out in May 2018,  
after Mr C complained to Black Horse. This concluded that:
The stop/start fault and the noise from the exhaust/turbo  area were first reported on 
02/10/17 at 929 miles. In my opinion these  faults  were at least developing at the point of 
sale
Since reporting further problems  including the clutch  failing in November 2018 - and our 
adjudicators recommendation, Black Horse has now agreed  to accept Mr Cs rejection of the 
car. I consider this to be a fair resolution  in the circumstances.
I now need to consider  what  action Black Horse now needs to take, and what  compensation 
it needs to pay, to resolve the complaint.
Ref: DRN46531075the finance agreement
The hire purchase agreement should be cancelled  and removed from Mr Cs credit file. I can 
see that Mr C paid a deposit of £2,000 and this should be refunded to him, plus interest.
Its fair that Mr C should pay for the use hes had of the car. And that includes the three  or 
four occasions he was given use of a courtesy  car, even  though  that car wasnt what Mr C 
wouldve chosen to drive. 
Its clear Mr C has not had much use of the car, and certainly not since  June 2018. Overall,  
I think it would be a fair and reasonable resolution  for Black Horse to refund 50% the 
payments hes made from June  2018  to October  2018 inclusive, plus interest. And to refund 
all of his payments from, and including, November  2018 to date. I think this is fair because 
the June 2018 payment was the first one after the independent report which had concluded  
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. This was also around the same 
time that Mr C reported further problems with the car. But Mr C was still able to drive the car 
occasionally during that period. Once the problem  with the clutch occurred in 
November 2018,  Mr C lost all faith in the car and was, rightly, worried whether  it was safe to 
drive. So he hasnt had use of the car since then.
the car
Black Horse  should arrange to collect the car, at no cost to Mr C, and at a convenient time 
for him. 
insurance
Mr C would like Black Horse to refund  the cost of insuring the car. Ive considered this 
carefully. But, even  though Mr C obtained another car in June 2018, he continued to use this 
one, albeit not to the extent that he wanted to. So I think  he should fairly pay some of the 
insurance costs. However,  I think that Mr C became increasingly concerned about using the 
car after the clutch failed in November 2018.  So I think its fair that Black  Horse refund 
Mr Cs insurance  costs  from November 2018  to date.  It should also cover  any fee involved in 
cancelling the insurance policy.
number plate
Mr C has a private number plate on the car. Black Horse should arrange  to return this to 
Mr C and cover any reasonable  associated costs, subject to receipts being provided.
compensation
Our adjudicator recommended  Black  Horse pay Mr C £250 for the loss of enjoyment of his 
car. I consider that to be fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN46531076my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I am minded to uphold this complaint. In full and final 
settlement Im minded to order Black  Horse Limited to:
1.Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay.
2.Collect the car at no cost to Mr C.
3.Refund Mr Cs deposit.
4.Return Mr Cs private number plate and cover any reasonable associated costs, 
subject to receipts being provided.
5.Refund 50% of the monthly payments made from June  2018  to October 2018 
inclusive.
6.Refund 100% of the monthly payments made  from, and including, November 2018 to 
the date the agreement is cancelled.
7.Refund the car insurance costs for the period  from November 2018 to date, together 
with any cancellation  fee, once proof of cost has been  provided  by Mr C.
8.Pay Mr C £250 compensation.
9.Remove the finance agreement from Mr Cs credit file.
Items 3, 5, 6 and 7 are subject to 8% simple interest  from the date of payment  to the date of 
settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Black Horse Limited to take off tax from this interest. Black 
Horse Limited must give Mr C a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4653107