K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Inter Partner Assistance  SAs handling of his request for a plumber to 
visit following a leak under his home emergency  section policy.
background
Mr B contacted IPA to make a claim after finding  a leak coming  from his bathroom. IPA 
accepted the claim and agreed to send  a plumber. Later IPA called back and said it wasnt 
going to send a plumber  as trace and access wasnt covered under the home  emergency  
policy. Mr B checked and found  that the pipes were accessible and could be isolated to 
avoid further damage  to his home.  So Mr B asked IPA again to send  a plumber to isolate the 
pipes. This was agreed but after a few hours  and no sign of a plumber Mr B rang again.  He 
was told that the plumber  had been  cancelled and nobody could be contacted  until the next 
morning.
The next day a plumber did come and isolated the pipes. But Mr B complained and IPA 
accepted it hadnt met its service level agreements. It apologised  and offered £150  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. Mr B didnt accept this and 
brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that the offer made by IPA was 
reasonable. He noted that if it hadnt  made  the offer he wouldve asked it to pay a similar 
figure based on the circumstances of the claim.  Mr B didnt accept this and asked for his 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no doubt that the actions of IPA delayed Mr B getting his leak dealt with. Mr B did 
have to make more calls,  chase up and make more effort than he shouldve  to get the leak 
fixed. Because of the delays he and his family had a night without water. IPA accepted that it 
hadnt hit their service  level requirements and apologised. It also offered £150 in 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  Mr B suffered.
I understand and accept  that Mr B was distressed and inconvenienced  by IPAs lack of 
immediate action. Mr B confirmed the impact this had on him and his wife and pointed this 
out to IPA. But in the circumstances I think IPA acted fairly and reasonably  by apologising 
and offering the £150 compensation. I think £150  is in line with the amount this service 
wouldve directed  IPA to award if it hadnt already offered it.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no further award against Inter Partner Assistance SA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019
Ref: DRN49121052John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4912105