K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made  a payment on her behalf to the wrong 
account. She wants them to refund her the money.
background
On 18 September  2018 Ms H went into a Barclays branch  to make a transfer from her 
Instant ISA account. A cashier made the payment for her. 
Ms H went  back  to the branch an hour later as the funds  hadnt been received by the 
beneficiary. Barclays told her that it might  take up to 2 hours  for the payment to go through. 
When the funds  still didnt appear, Ms H called  Barclays  telephony service  and told them she 
was worried the payment  had been made to the wrong account.  
Barclays found that it followed the instruction that Ms H gave them  and transferred the 
money to the payee and account that she told them to. Ms H said that the money  had been  
transferred to the right payee but not to the account  she wanted to transfer  the money to. 
She felt this was Barclays fault.
Barclays told Ms H that they could  make a recall  request for the money, but this couldnt be 
done until the following day. They then processed the transfer  for a second time, this time 
with the correct account details.
Barclays submitted a recall request for the first transfer on 19 September 2018.  But the 
beneficiarys bank  said that they couldnt  return the money as it had been sent to the correct 
person, and the account it was sent to was open and active.
Ms H complained to Barclays  and asked for them to repay her the money that had been  
incorrectly transferred. But Barclays didnt think theyd done anything  wrong.  So Ms H 
referred her complaint  to our service.
Our investigator agreed with Barclays that they werent responsible  for the error. Ms H is 
upset she hasnt been offered any compensation from Barclays,  and has asked for me to 
review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Ms H will be disappointed,  but I 
wont be asking Barclays to refund her money or pay her any compensation. Ill explain why.
Ms H has told us that she doesnt  think the cashier  who made the transfer  for her was 
concentrating properly on what she was doing. She says they were talking to a colleague at 
the time,  and thinks they made  an error as a result.  Whilst  I have no reason to doubt the 
cashier was talking as Ms H says, Barclays have told us that she turned her screen around 
for Ms H to look at the payee details and asked her to confirm they were correct before 
making the payment. Ms H hasnt  disputed that this happened.
Ref: DRN40647062Ms H has said that she asked the cashier  if the details were for a specific bank. I cant be 
certain of the conversation that was had, but Im satisfied that the cashier showed Ms H the 
relevant details of the payee  and their account  that  Ms H had paid before.. And I understand 
Ms H did not offer any other  account details to compare them with. I appreciate Ms H thinks  
she had the correct payee details  saved on her account also,  but this wasnt evident from the 
subsequent telephone call she had with Barclays  where  she gave them  these details over 
the telephone and they set up a reference. 
So whilst I appreciate  its very frustrating that the money was sent to the wrong  account,  
based on what happened I dont think it would be fair to say the error was Barclays fault. 
They did what I would reasonably have expected, checking the payee details with Ms H 
before making  the transfer.  Ms H confirmed that the details the cashier showed her on the 
screen were  correct. So I dont think it would  fair to ask Barclays  to refund the payment to 
Ms H on this basis.
Ms H says she went back to the branch an hour after the transfer was made as it hadnt 
been received  by the beneficiary.  Barclays told her that it can take up to 2 hours for faster 
payments to be received. This is correct, so I think the branch dealt with her query fairly.
When the money still hadnt been  received Ms H called Barclays  and it became apparent  
that the funds  had been sent to the wrong account.  As the transfer was made using the 
faster payment  service, the funds left Ms Hs account immediately so there was no way 
Barclays could stop the payment at this point. 
Barclays said they would contact the bank  it was sent to and ask them  if they could return  
the payment.  As it was after normal working hours  when Ms H called  Barclays  the team  that 
make the recalls werent available, but Barclays told Ms H they would do this the next day. I 
can see that Barclays made the recall request as advised on 19 September  2018.  So I think 
they acted promptly.  These actions  followed  Barclays  usual process in this situation. So Im 
satisfied that they acted  correctly and took reasonable steps to assist  Ms H.
The agent  on this call made Ms Hs transfer for a second time, to the correct  account. Ms H 
tells us she only went ahead with this second  transfer because  she believed  Barclays  could 
recall the first payment. Shes told us she wouldnt have done so if Barclays hadnt made her 
think it was certain the recall would work  and she would get her money back. 
Ive listened to the call and I agree that Barclays didnt make it clear  to Ms H before she 
made the second transfer that it wasnt guaranteed a recall  request would be successful. I 
can also hear that on a second call the next day Ms H was told not to worry and that it was 
99% certain  she would  get her money  back.  However, on both calls Ms H had said that the 
account the first transfer was made to was closed.   
Barclays have explained that if a transfer is sent to a closed account  it normally  bounces  
back, and if it doesnt  they wouldnt expect the beneficiary bank  to have a problem returning 
it. So I dont think it was unreasonable of them to tell Ms H she would likely get her money 
back, based on the information shed provided  to them about the situation.
Ref: DRN40647063In actual fact the account was not closed, so the payment went through. The beneficiary  
bank responded  to the recall request and said they couldnt return  the funds as they were 
sent to an active  account  belonging to the correct beneficiary. I can see Barclays  had 
included on their recall request that the recipient account was closed. However  this was, 
again, based on the information Ms H had given them. So it would be unfair for me to say 
they made an error here.  Barclays  also explained  why they dont think  the beneficiary bank 
would have given  them a different response to the request even if they hadnt included this 
information. And Im satisfied a further recall  request wouldnt result  in Ms Hs money  being  
returned. 
On both calls the agent spoke about  the possibility  of Barclays refunding Ms H the money. 
They did explain  this could be an option,  but that would be if Barclays had made an error. I 
dont think it was guaranteed that Barclays would refund  Ms Hs money if the recall request 
didnt work.
Barclays asked Ms H if the beneficiary could return her payment to her and she advised this 
wasnt possible. I appreciate this leaves her in a very difficult situation.  But Im afraid I agree 
with Barclays, the only way to fairly rectify  the situation is for Ms H to pursue the beneficiary  
to reimburse her the funds. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4064706