K820x#14complaint
Miss F is complaining that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) has held her liable 
for an accident after a claim was made  on her car insurance policy.
background
Miss F was involved in an incident with another car where she says the other  drivers car 
rolled back into her car while in stationary traffic.  She says that the other driver apologised at 
the scene. Miss F says there  was no damage  to either  car and took photographs  of both 
cars. However, Admiral  contacted her the next day to say that the other driver had reported 
that Miss F had driven into the back of her car. Miss F disputed  the other drivers version of 
events and she said that there was a nursery and school which both had CCTV footage  
which may have captured the incident.
Admiral later contacted  Miss F to say that it was intending  on settling the claim because it 
thought that, on balance,  shed be found liable for the accident. Miss F maintained  that she 
didnt cause the accident and thought  the other driver was making a fraudulent claim. And 
she reiterated that there was CCTV footage. She also raised a formal  complaint about the 
way that Admiral had handled the claim. She also thought that it had discriminated against 
her because of her age.
Admiral responded  to say that it agreed that Miss F had said that there may be CCTV but 
the call handlers  hadnt  logged this on the file. It apologised for this and offered Miss F £50 
in compensation.  And it said it would look to get the CCTV footage.  But it remained of the 
belief that it had handled the claim fairly. 
Admiral said it didnt  have  any evidence to show what had actually happened  such as a 
witness statement, CCTV or dashcam footage. So it said that it had to consider  the accident  
location, road type and the other drivers car. And it had to think  about the likely outcome if 
the claim proceeded to court. It said that the photographs Miss F provided showed a small 
amount of damage  to the car. It also said that the incident occurred on a flat road and, given 
Miss F had said that she was half a car length behind, it thought that it was unlikely a judge  
would find in the other drivers favour.
Admiral later spoke with the nursery and school and it said both advised  that their CCTV 
footage wouldnt  have captured the incident. Miss F disputes they would have  said that.
Miss F remained  unhappy with the outcome of the claim  and referred  her complaint to this 
service. 
Since then,  she raised a further issue that Admiral had charged  her £20.75 because it said 
that she was driving to work and didnt  have commuting cover. She said she didnt think  this 
was fair because she was only driving to work that day because there were issues with her 
trains. She said Admiral had told her it could  report her to the police for driving  without 
insurance.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that she couldnt say who was liable  
for the accident,  but could  look at whether  Admiral  had handled the claim  fairly.  She said 
that, while Admiral didnt initially request the CCTV footage,  she was satisfied that it wouldnt 
have shown the accident. She also didnt think Admiral had come to an unreasonable  
Ref: DRN46481362decision on the claim as she thought  its explanation for why it had chosen  to settle the claim 
was fair.
Miss F didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint.  And Ill now explain why.
Miss F says that the other driver  has made a fraudulent  claim and she doesnt agree that 
Admiral was right to settle the claim. I should  first explain that this service  isnt able to say 
whos at fault for causing an accident, as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to 
look at whether Admiral  has carried out a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence  it has 
and come to a reasonable decision.
Miss Fs policy,  like all other car insurance  policies, allows Admiral to conduct the defence  
or settlement of any claim. So its entitled to settle the claim, on the best terms it thinks  fit. 
And it has the ultimate and final say in how to settle  a claim. But it must exercise  this right 
fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Miss F said on two occasions that there  was CCTV footage  but Admiral  didnt  
initially act upon  this. But it did quickly put this right and contacted the school and the 
nursery to understand  if the footage would have captured the incident. Ive listened to the 
telephone calls that Admiral had with the nursery and the school  and these confirm  that they 
wouldnt have done so. So Miss F hasnt lost out as a result  of the initial  delay in requesting  
this information  because the situation wouldnt be any different had Admiral asked for the 
footage at the start. Admiral  has offered  Miss F £50 compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience this initial delay may have  caused  her. And I think this is more than 
reasonable.
Ive taken Miss Fs comments  into account about  why she disagreed with Admirals  decision. 
Admiral said that it had reviewed the accident  location and said that the road surface is flat. 
It also said that Miss F had also confirmed  there  wasnt incline on the road and it said she 
had confirmed she was about half a car length  behind the other drivers car. Finally  it said 
that it didnt think  there  was any reason  or suggestion that the other drivers car had 
reversed. So on the balance of probability,  it thought  it was likely the claim would  be found in 
the other drivers favour.
Ultimately, while I appreciate Miss F is unhappy with the outcome of the claim, Im satisfied 
that Admiral has considered all the relevant information provided  by both parties before it 
came to the conclusion it did. And Im satisfied that its decision  is fair and reasonable based 
on the information and evidence it had. So I cant  require  it to remove  the claim from 
Miss Fs record.
I note Miss F is unhappy that Admiral has charged her £20.75 to add commuting cover  to 
her policy.  But I cant say this was unreasonable. Miss Fs cover was limited to social,  
domestic and pleasure cover only. So she wasnt  covered to drive to and from her place  of 
work, irrespective of the reason why she was doing so. While I acknowledge that Miss F was 
only driving to work that day because of issues with her trains, the reality  is that she wasnt 
Ref: DRN46481363insured to do so. So it wasnt  unreasonable for Admiral to advise her that she wasnt insured 
for the journey she was making.  
Miss F has said that this whole matter has caused her a high level of anxiety and 
depression. Shes also said that she cant afford  to insure her car any longer. But, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I cant say that Admiral  has acted unreasonably in this matter. 
So, while I naturally sympathise  with Miss F for the situation shes  in, I cant require Admiral 
to compensate her for this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that Admiral Insurance Company  
Limiteds offer to pay Miss F £50 in compensation for not initially  requesting the CCTV 
footage is fair and reasonable.  And it should  pay this to her directly  if it hasnt  already. I dont 
require it to do anything  further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4648136