K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP made  short-term loans to him when it 
shouldnt have.
background
Between 2014 and 2015 Uncle Buck made 3 loans to Mr S. He repaid  the last one in early 
2018. He complained that  when  he took the loans - the lender hadnt checked that he 
could afford  repayment   which he couldnt.
our adjudicators opinion
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt think 
that Uncle Buck shouldve  made  loan 3. He recommended that Uncle  Buck should:
1.refund  all interest and charges that Mr S paid on loan 3; and
2.pay interest of 8% simple  a year on the refund  for loan 3 from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement*; and
3.remove any negative information  about loan 3 from Mr Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle to take off tax from this interest.  Uncle Buck  
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to Uncle Buck on 7 February 2019. I summarise my findings:
I wasnt satisfied that Uncle Buck did proportionate checks for loan 3.
If Uncle Buck had done proportionate checks it shouldve seen that Mr S was taking 
short-term loans to repay other short-term loans and to cover living  costs.  It shouldve 
seen that he couldnt afford to repay nearly £200.00  per month on its loan 3 in a 
sustainable way  that is without further short-term borrowing.
I didnt think Uncle Buck wouldve made loan 3 if it had done  proportionate checks.
Subject to any further information from Mr S or from Uncle  Buck, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint  in part. I intended  to direct Uncle Buck  
Finance LLP to (in relation to its loan to Mr S on or about 15 January 2015):
1.refund  Mr S each  amount of interest and charges that he paid; and
2.pay Mr S simple  interest at a yearly rate of 8% on each such  amount from the date 
he paid it to the date Uncle Buck refunds it. If Uncle Buck considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr S 
Ref: DRN43310282how much  its taken  off. It should  also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3.remove adverse information from Mr Ss credit file.
Mr S says he has nothing to add in response  to the provisional decision.
Uncle Buck  hasnt responded to the provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend to Mr S, Uncle Buck had to check each time that he could afford to 
repay the loan.  Affordability checks should  be proportionate. Whats proportionate  depends  
on things like  but not limited  to  the size of the loan repayments and the information  Uncle  
Buck had about Mr S.
From its records and his bank statements, Uncle Bucks loans to Mr S were  as follows:
loan No. loan date loan amount date loan repaid
1 11.10.14 £125.00 14.11.14
2 21.11.14 £175.00 15.01.15
3 15.01.15 £400.00 02.01.18
Before loan 1, Uncle Buck recorded  Mr Ss net monthly income  as £1,890.00. Loan 1 was 
going to require a repayment of about of £168.00. That wasnt a high proportion  of his 
declared income.
And I dont  think there was anything in the results of Uncle Bucks credit  checks that 
shouldve prompted  it to do more checks than I would usually expect for a loan like loan 1.
So Im satisfied that Uncle Buck did proportionate  checks by asking Mr S his monthly  income 
and his normal monthly expenditure which it recorded at £755.00.  As it had done  
proportionate checks and the results  didnt show that Mr S couldnt afford repayment of loan 
1, I dont find it fair to order Uncle Buck to refund  the interest he paid on that loan.
Mr S repaid  loan 1 on time. About a week went by before he applied  for loan 2. Uncle Buck  
again recorded Mr Ss monthly income as £1,890.00.
Loan 2 was going to require a repayment of about £236.00. That wasnt a high proportion of 
his declared income.
And I dont  think there was anything in the results of Uncle Bucks credit  checks that 
shouldve prompted  it to do more checks than I would usually expect for a loan like loan 2.
So Im satisfied that Uncle Buck did proportionate  checks by asking Mr S his monthly  income 
and his monthly expenditure which it recorded  at £860.00.
Ref: DRN43310283Mr S was unwilling or unable to repay  loan 2 on its due date.  Instead  he deferred repayment  
or rolled  over the loan,  incurring  extra interest. He repaid  it after about an extra  month.
As it had done proportionate checks and the results didnt show that Mr S couldnt afford 
repayment of loan 2, I dont  find it fair to order Uncle Buck  to refund the interest  he paid on 
that loan.
Loan 3 was different. It wasnt repayable on Mr Ss next payday. It was repayable  in 
instalments spread over 3 months.  So  although  loan 3 was higher than loan 2 - each of the 
3 instalments was about £198.00.
In other  circumstances I wouldve said that proportionate checks wouldve been to ask Mr S 
his normal net monthly  income, his normal living costs and his regular financial 
commitments. And I think Uncle Buck did such checks. It recorded Mr Ss income  as 
£1,965.00. And it recorded his expenditure as £460.00 for rent/mortgage, £300.00  for food,  
£100.00 for petrol/transport, £100.00  for utilities, £169.00 for store/credit cards and £30.00 
for other payments  a total of £1,159.00.
But there are some  reasons why I think proportionate checks  shouldve been at a higher 
level.
Those reasons  include the roll-over which was an indicator  that he had struggled to repay 
loan 2. Also on the same  day he repaid  loan 2 he was asking to borrow  again. That meant 
he was borrowing on his payday. And after about  3 months of almost continuous borrowing 
from Uncle Buck, Mr S was asking to enter into a commitment that would last for a further 
3 months.
So I think proportionate checks  at that stage  shouldve included  an additional check asking 
Mr S specifically about any other short-term financial commitments such  as other short-term  
loans.
Uncle Buck  has shown us that it did a credit search  and the results said Mr S had £536.00  
outstanding for short-  term loans, of which £236.00 was for its own loan 2. So I do 
understand its point  that his commitments  to other  short-term lenders were recorded as 
£300.00  some of which might also have been  repayable by instalments spread  over a 
number of months. So Uncle Buck says he could afford to repay the other borrowing 
alongside the instalments of about £198.00 on loan 3.
But Im not satisfied that Uncle  Buck  asked  Mr S specifically about  any other short-term 
financial commitments  such as other short-term loans. So Im not satisfied that it did 
proportionate checks for loan 3.
Ive thought about whats likely to have  happened  if Uncle Buck had done  such checks. And 
I find it more likely than not that Mr S wouldve disclosed that  when he took loan 3 from 
Uncle Buck  - he still had to repay  short-term  borrowing from 4 other lenders. In fact, after he 
repaid the £236.00 to Uncle Buck and took its loan 3, Mr S had to repay about £500.00 to 
other short-term lenders  within  a few days.
So I think that if Uncle Buck had done proportionate checks it shouldve seen that Mr S was 
taking short-term loans  to repay other  short-term loans and to cover  living  costs.  It shouldve 
seen that he couldnt afford to repay nearly £200.00  per month on its loan 3 in a sustainable 
way  that is without  further short-term borrowing.
Ref: DRN43310284So I dont  think Uncle Buck wouldve made  loan 3 if it had done proportionate checks. But it 
did make  loan 3 and Mr S incurred  interest  on it  at least until he entered into a payment 
arrangement. So I find it fair and reasonable to order Uncle  Buck to refund Mr S each 
amount of interest  and any charges he paid on loan 3. I will also order  it to add interest at 
our usual rate.
As I dont think it shouldve made loan 3, I will order Uncle Buck  to remove  adverse 
information about it from Mr Ss credit  file.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Uncle Buck Finance LLP to (in relation  to its loan to Mr S on or about 
15 January 2015):
1.refund  Mr S each  amount of interest and charges that he paid; and
2.pay Mr S simple  interest at a yearly rate of 8% on each such  amount from the 
date he paid it to the date Uncle  Buck refunds it. If Uncle Buck  considers  that its 
required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to withhold income tax from that interest, it 
must tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should  also give him a tax deduction  
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate; and
3.remove adverse information from Mr Ss credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4331028