K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains about issues arising from her hire purchase agreement with PSA Finance 
UK Limited,  trading as Peugeot Financial Services. 
background
A new car was supplied  to Mrs M under a hire purchase  agreement  with Peugeot Financial 
Services that she signed in July 2015. She returned the car when the agreement ended and 
the car was inspected  by a third party on behalf of Peugeot Financial Services.  The report  
identified damage  to the car including a chipped windscreen, dents on a door and paint 
damage on the bonnet and recommended charges for that damage totalling £242. Peugeot 
Financial Services sent an invoice to Mrs M for that amount. She complained to Peugeot 
Financial Services about those charges and she said that shed been told that shed receive  
a refund because  shed  driven the car less than the mileage limit set out in the agreement  
and that she hadnt wanted  the GAP insurance. She wasnt satisfied with Peugeot Financial 
Services response so complained to this service. Peugeot  Financial Services  has agreed  to 
waive the charge  for the chipped windscreen.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. He said that 
there was nothing to suggest that a refund  relating to the excess mileage would be due to 
Mrs M. And he thought  that Mrs M had consented to the GAP  insurance by signing the 
agreement. He also thought that the charge for the damage to the bonnet was fair. But he 
said that the charge for the damage to the door was unfair.   
Peugeot Financial Services has agreed  to remove the charge for damage to the door as a 
goodwill gesture to resolve this complaint. But Mrs M has asked for her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. She says, in summary, that the figures for GAP insurance in 
the agreement  were for illustrative purposes  and she wouldnt expect them  to be 
automatically included  even if shown, unless the box was ticked  and she did what  she was 
told and the box wasnt ticked. She says that she didnt want  the GAP  insurance and clearly 
asked for it to be removed. And she says that she accepts  the investigators 
recommendations about the charges for damage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M signed  the hire purchase agreement in July 2015. The agreement set out the annual  
mileage limit of 20,000  miles  and the charge that would be made if that mileage was 
exceeded. That is a maximum  mileage limit and not an estimation  of expected mileage. And 
there was no reference in the agreement to any refund being  due to Mrs M if she drove  the 
car for less than the mileage limit. Im not persuaded that its likely that Peugeot Financial 
Services wouldve agreed to such a refund. 
The dealer  has stopped  trading so its not been able to provide  any information about  what  
was agreed with Mrs M. But I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require 
Peugeot Financial Services to refund to Mrs M any of her payments because  shes driven 
the car for less than the mileage limit.
Ref: DRN45500462The agreement also set out the monthly charges that would be made by Mrs M for the car. 
She agreed  to make 36 monthly payments of £311.48 for the car with a final payment if she 
was keeping the car of £6,029. And the agreement also set out the payments that were to be 
made for GAP insurance  which were  36 monthly payments of £7.80  and a final payment of 
£150.96. I consider  it to be more likely than not that Mrs M didnt want GAP  insurance  so 
she didnt tick the box on the agreement - but she did sign the section on the agreement  
relating to GAP  insurance.
Mrs M made  the monthly payments that were  due for the car and the GAP  insurance  and 
payments of £319.28  (£311.48 plus £7.80) were  made from her account from August 2015 
to July 2018. And theres no evidence to show that she complained to the dealer or Peugeot 
Financial Services about the payments until after shed returned  the car. As shes made 
those payments and had the benefit  of the GAP  insurance for the time that she had the car, 
Im not persuaded that it would now be fair or reasonable for me to require Peugeot 
Financial Services to refund to Mrs M any of the monthly payments that shes  made for the 
GAP insurance  or to waive the final payment of £150.96 which remains outstanding from 
her.
When Mrs M returned the car it was inspected on behalf of Peugeot Financial  Services.  The 
inspection report identified damage  to the car including a chipped windscreen, a dented  door 
and a dent and paint damage on the bonnet. Peugeot Financial  Services charged Mrs M 
£242 for that damage.  But it then agreed  to waive the £42 charge for the chipped 
windscreen. And it has accepted the investigators recommendation that it should waive the 
£48 charge for the damaged door. Mrs M has agreed to pay the £152 for the damage to the 
cars bonnet.  I consider that to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances and I dont 
consider it to be necessary for me to consider the damage charges in any more detail.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint in part. And I order PSA 
Finance UK Limited, trading as Peugeot Financial Services, to waive  the charge for damage 
to the cars door.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4550046