K820x#14complaint
Mrs Js representative, a claims  management  company (CMC),  has complained  on her 
behalf about a Zurich  Assurance Ltd whole  of life policy  she took out with her late husband  in 
1990.
In brief,  the CMC says the policy was too risky, no assessment was made as to how 
premium increases could  be afforded in retirement  and no alternative ways of mitigating any 
future inheritance tax (IHT) bill were discussed.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. 
In brief,  I acknowledged  that there was some uncertainty around why the policy was 
recommended. So it was possible there  may have been a more appropriate alternative.  But, 
on balance, I didnt  think there was sufficient evidence for me to make  a finding that Zurich 
acted incorrectly or unreasonably   particularly given Mrs Js interaction with the policy  over 
the years  and the ultimate benefit  received when it was surrendered. 
Zurich confirmed that it had nothing it wished  to add. 
Mrs Js CMC disagreed with my decision,  saying;
In respect of changes  that took place  once the plan was in place, Mrs J always relied 
on her husband  to handle their financial  matters  and wasnt even  aware of what  this 
plan was for. The fact find wasnt signed  and it appears Mrs J wasnt  even present 
when the advice was given. If Mr J had taken  out the plan then exactly what option  
did Mrs J have but to continue with it?
One of Zurich's points to support the sale is that the death of either party wouldve 
impacted heavily on the family.  However, this plan was set up on a joint-life  second- 
death basis, so if either party died it was of no use. 
If IHT planning was a priority why would Mrs J have surrendered the plan in 2010 
and risked jeopardising the planning? This makes no sense when  you consider the 
point made by the ombudsman regarding changes that were made to keep the plan 
going. If Mrs J needed  the funds for her daughter's  education  then clearly  
affordability over the longer term was an issue and this aspect wasnt  even looked  at 
by the adviser.  
If this plan was sold for IHT planning where  is the calculation  to show  how much  the 
liability was? Also why did the adviser  not consider other options  for IHT planning?
Why, when there  are four priorities recorded  as important,  is priority given to the one 
that the adviser stood to benefit  from the most in terms of commission. 
The plan sold was unit-linked yet the risk profile recorded is not compatible with the 
sale of a plan linked  to a Managed Fund. If the ombudsman feels this plan was to be 
maintained until the death of the second  of the lives assured then wed expect the 
adviser to properly explore whether the contributions could be maintained in 
retirement. 
All the adviser  has done is note down  some very basic  information  where it asks for 
the clients pension  details. The adviser has a duty to properly know his customer 
before making  a recommendation. 
Ref: DRN48140962The plan was unsuitable for the consumers, especially  as Mrs J had no idea what 
was being recommended or why it was recommended.
There are errors in the recording of Mrs Js circumstances. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive not been  persuaded 
to change my view of the complaint, which I continue to believe is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. 
The CMC has explained about Mrs Js lack of involvement with both the advice  and also her 
and her late husbands financial planning  in general. While I accept this may be the case, I 
dont think this necessarily shows that it was wrong for Zurich  to recommend the policy. And 
in respect of Mrs J keeping it running  following  her husbands death, I think it likely she 
would have been given some guidance on this, not least because  it appears that the 
couples solicitor was one of the trustees  of the trust in which the policy had been placed. 
I acknowledged in my provisional  decision  that it wasnt entirely clear why the policy had 
been recommended. And I do take the point about  the apparent contradiction between a 
family protection objective and the policy being  set on a second death basis. 
But, nevertheless,  despite this uncertainty  I still dont think  there  is sufficient cause for me to 
conclude that Zurichs  action in respect  of the policy were wrong and have led to Mrs J being 
disadvantaged. Not given the history of the policy and the ultimate benefit it provided, albeit 
a benefit that may not have been  intended when the policy  was set up 20 years earlier.       
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48140963COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs Js representative,  a claims management company (CMC), has complained on her behalf about a 
Zurich Assurance Ltd whole of life policy she took out with her late husband  in 1990.
In brief, the CMC says the policy was too risky,  no assessment was made as to how premium 
increases could be afforded in retirement and no alternative ways of mitigating  any future  inheritance 
tax (IHT) bill were discussed.
background
Mrs J took out the policy in 1990  in joint names with her husband. It was set up on a second-death  
basis, providing an initial  level of cover of just over £106,000 for a monthly premium of £40. The level 
of cover was set up to be indexed   rising annually  in line with the cost of living. 
Sadly Mrs Js husband passed away soon  after the policy started,  in 1991. Mrs J continued with the 
policy until 2010, when  she surrendered it for just over £32,000.
Our adjudicator felt that the complaint should be upheld. He noted that there had been four number 1 
priorities indicted in the fact find completed by the advisor  - IHT, increase  of capital, education 
provision and financial security for family.
The adjudicator couldnt  see how these particular  objectives could be met by a whole of life policy  and 
was of the opinion that the policy had actually been sold as a general, all-purpose policy, which he 
didnt consider to be appropriate. 
Zurich disagreed, saying:
The death  of either Mr or Mrs J would  have impacted heavily on the family, in terms of 
household income and the ability to continue servicing  various loans and maintaining their 
respective businesses.
The plan was set up with a sum assured that was very close to the potential IHT liability.
There is no evidence that it was sold to meet all of the objectives  stated in the fact find, as 
suggested.
The reason for surrendering the policy  was unrelated to the original purpose,  but allowed Mrs 
Js daughter to benefit from the surrender value. 
A joint-life, second  death open-ended policy, which  was written in trust with their children  as 
named beneficiaries, was appropriate for Mr and Mrs Js circumstances  and continued  to 
provide appropriate protection following the early death of Mr J in 1991. 
As the adjudicator  wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion, the matters  been referred  to me to 
review. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
At the time the policy was sold Mrs J and her husband were both working,  involved with several 
businesses and enjoying  a reasonably healthy level of income. The fact find completed at the time 
indicates that they already had quite a lot of cover in place. But they had mortgages to protect and 
Ref: DRN48140964two young children. So, in all the circumstances, it doesnt strike me as wholly unreasonable that they 
mightve been  looking  for further cover. 
I note that a number of priorities were highlighted  as number 1, so I can see why in the absence of a 
suitability letter its difficult to say with any certainty  precisely what Mrs J and her husband were 
looking to achieve.  But IHT planning was one of these number 1s and the policy was set up as I 
might expect it to have  been if that was the objective. And as Zurich  has pointed out, the sum assured 
was in keeping what looks like the potential  IHT liability  at the time. 
In any event, I think its reasonable to attach some weight to the fact that Mrs J chose to maintain the 
policy following her husbands death and also to accept ongoing increases in cost due to both 
indexation and policy reviews. It also appears that amendments  were made to the trustees. 
In light of this continued interaction  with the policy, I find it difficult  to conclude that it was something 
that Mrs J either  didnt want or didnt understand. And there was a significant benefit too at the point 
of surrender in 2010, when Mrs J was able to help her daughter. 
In all, I accept  that theres some uncertainty around why the policy  was recommended.  And, that 
being so, its possible  there may have been a more appropriate alternative. But, on balance,  I dont 
think theres sufficient evidence  as it stands for me to make a finding  that Zurich acted  incorrectly or 
unreasonably.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I may receive, Im currently minded to 
not uphold the complaint. 
Ref: DRN4814096