K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide  Building Society  allowed a number of joint accounts he held 
with his ex-wife to be closed without his consent.
Background
Mr H held a number of joint savings accounts with his former wife. These were held with a 
number of different  building societies  that became part of Nationwide in October 2014.
In 2018 Mr H complained  after becoming  aware  his ex-wife had closed six accounts they 
jointly held and had transferred the remaining funds to her own account. He wanted to know  
how this had happened. He also complained  that he hadnt been  receiving  any statements 
for any of his accounts because it appeared Nationwide had been  sending these to the 
wrong address.
Nationwide accepted that due to an error, his address had been amended after his ex-wife 
updated her own address.  It offered Mr H £150  for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Regarding the joint accounts, it said hed closed one in 2009 and the remaining funds had 
been sent to him via cheque. Nationwide said hed also withdrawn the balance of another 
two accounts  prior to the account migration in 2014.  It explained  the remaining three 
accounts migrated  to Nationwide but they had been  closed by the joint account holder and 
the balances were transferred to his ex-wifes  account. 
Mr H wasnt happy with this and referred his complaint to our service. He said hed made 
Nationwide aware  he was in dispute  with his ex-wife in 2014 before the accounts migrated 
and had asked  Nationwide to put a block on their joint accounts.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint. He said there wasnt  any evidence to 
support that hed made Nationwide aware  he was in dispute with his ex-wife in 2014. And, in 
order to stop any withdrawals from the account, Mr H wouldve needed  to sign a particular 
form, which he hadnt. The investigator didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong by 
allowing Mr Hs ex-wife to close the accounts and transfer the balances.  But he thought  the 
compensation offered for the issue with his address  was reasonable.
Mr H didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsman  to decide the matter.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
I appreciate Mr H feels very strongly  that hes been treated unfairly and that Nationwide 
should return the funds to him. But I dont think Nationwide  acted outside of any of its 
established processes when  it allowed the accounts to be closed.
The six savings accounts Mr H jointly held with his ex-wife were set up on an either to sign 
basis. This means that either of the two account  holders, in this case  Mr H and his ex-wife, 
could take action on the account without the others  permission. So, Nationwide didnt 
require Mr Hs consent to close  the accounts  or transfer the balances  as it had his ex-wifes  
consent. Its possible that Mr H wasnt aware of this or has forgotten that the accounts were  
set up in this way. But I cant hold Nationwide at fault for this.
Ref: DRN48975622Mr H has said he told Nationwide in 2014 that he was in dispute with his ex-wife and that all 
of the accounts  should  be blocked.  He said he was given a verbal assurance in a branch 
that his ex-wife wouldnt be able to withdraw the funds.
Ive seen a copy  of Nationwides internal notes but there arent any records from 2014 that 
support what Mr H has told us. Furthermore,  Im not persuaded he wouldve been  able to put 
a block on the accounts in this way. Nationwide has shown that if there is a dispute between  
joint account holders,  it follows  particular processes. If Mr H had told Nationwide he wanted  
to stop his ex-wife  from making any withdrawals, Nationwide  has shown that he wouldve 
needed to sign a specific form. So, it couldnt  have  accepted the instructions verbally.
Mr H hasnt said he signed a form at the time and theres no record  of the specific  form 
having been signed by him. So, Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that Mr H 
informed Nationwide  of the dispute  in 2014  and that he took the necessary steps to prevent 
his ex-wife from accessing the funds.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr H, but I dont think Nationwide  did anything  wrong  by 
allowing his ex-wife  to close  the joint accounts and transfer the remaining funds.
I also think the £150 Nationwide has already paid to Mr H is reasonable compensation for 
mistakenly changing his address. While I dont doubt this was frustrating, it doesnt appear 
this wouldve  mad a difference as Nationwide wouldnt  have informed Mr H that there  was a 
request to close the accounts. So, he couldnt  have  stopped this from happening even if 
Nationwide had his correct address. For this reason, I dont  think  further compensation is 
warranted.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4897562