K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC has declined to refund  the money he lost when he fell 
victim to a scam.
background
Mr J holds a current account  with Lloyds. In March  2018, he received  a text message that 
appeared to have originated with Lloyds. Mr J says the message appeared as part of the 
sequence of genuine messages hed received from Lloyds in the past. It said that Lloyds had 
identified a possibly  fraudulent attempt  to make a payment of £450 from his current  account. 
Mr J didnt recognise that attempted transaction.
Unknown to Mr J at the time,  the message was in fact from a scammer, and no such 
payment had been attempted.
Immediately after this, he received a phone  call from the scammer. Mr J says hed been 
getting ready to meet  up with friends  and family so says he was somewhat caught  off-guard 
by the call.
The caller  claimed to be from Lloyds fraud team. Mr J says the caller  knew  several specific 
details about him and the two Lloyds  accounts  he held. He says the callers  knowledge of his 
accounts convinced  him he must be speaking with his bank. 
The caller  said they were ringing about  the attempted £450 payment, which they said theyd 
been able to prevent leaving his account.  Mr J was asked to log into his online banking and 
check the fraudulent  payment wasnt showing.  Mr J did so and confirmed that the transaction  
didnt appear.
He was told his money  was still at risk and that he needed to move  it immediately to a safe 
account to protect  it. The caller gave him an account number and sort code to use. Mr J was 
told to put his own name into the payee  reference box.
Mr J set up these details  on his online banking as a new payee, and then made a Faster 
Payments transfer of £2860. The payment cleared  most of the balance of his current  
account - leaving it in credit by just under £15. 
All the while Mr J explains  he believed he was acting on the instructions of his bank to 
protect his money,  and didnt realise  the money  was actually being transferred to an account 
held with another bank.
The following  morning Mr J started to wonder  whether  the call had been genuine and 
decided to visit a local branch. The branch staff realised  the text message and call were not 
legitimate and said Mr J had been  the victim of a scam. Mr J says they gave him the 
impression they thought  he was lying. 
Lloyds contacted the bank  to which Mr J had sent the money in an attempt to retrieve any 
remaining funds. However,  the receiving  bank was only able to retrieve £80.13.  
Lloyds said it would  not refund the amount Mr J had lost, because hed authorised the 
payment, and he hadnt taken steps  to verify  the caller was genuine. But it said it would pay 
him £100 for the distress  Mr J said hed been caused when he had visited the branch.
Ref: DRN47385422our investigation
Our investigator thought Lloyds ought to have identified that the transaction was unusual.  
She thought  that good industry practice  would have been for Lloyds to contact Mr J about 
the transaction before it made the payment.  And she thought that had Lloyds done so, the 
scam would have come to light and been  prevented. She therefore recommended  Lloyds 
should refund the outstanding amount.
Lloyds didnt agree. In summary, it said:
-This faster payment  could be seen as a transaction that was unusual  in size for this 
specific customer.
-But it wasnt uncommon  or unreasonable for a large majority of Lloyds customers to 
make one-off payments of this value from the same type of account  (when for 
example purchasing a car, or other situations).
-In many of the scenarios in which  Lloyds  customers might  make these one-off 
payments, this would  often follow the setting up of a new payee.
-It had a regulatory obligation  to allow customers to access  their funds.
-Mr J had made previous Faster  Payments.
-Mr J had deposited a cash sum a few days before the transaction, which  Lloyds said 
was often a sign that a customer  was preparing to make a one-off payment.
-It would  not be fair and reasonable to expect it to intervene in payments where it did 
not assess the payment as having  any high-risk  characteristics.
-Mr J had not attempted  to verify the caller.
-Lloyds had not had any verbal  interactions with Mr J prior to the transaction.
-Mr J had prior experience of dealing with its fraud team to resolve disputed 
transactions, during which hed never been asked to make  a payment or transfer 
from his account. He ought  therefore  to have been aware the scammers request  
wasnt genuine.
-While  Lloyds has since identified Mr J was potentially vulnerable at the time of the 
scam, it had only become  aware  of this after the event. So this could not have raised  
any additional concern about  the transaction for Lloyds.
As a result, the complaint has been  referred  to me to reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Ref: DRN47385423But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).
Regulated firms like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations (BBA) February 
2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions   that could involve fraud  or be the result of a scam 
(something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes  October 2017 
Protecting customers from financial harm  as a result of fraud  or financial  abuse  
Code of practice, which a number of banks and trade associations were involved in 
the development of); and,
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more  familiar with than the 
average customer.
The above  examples of published good  industry practice, codes and guidance  that Ive set 
out above, all point to Lloyds responsibility  to help protect  its customers from fraud and to 
look out for unusual and out of character  transactions.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Lloyds acted  fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with 
Mr J when he made a payment of £2,860 to a new payee, or whether it should have done 
more than it did.
did Lloyds act fairly and reasonably  in this case?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Lloyds should have 
been on the lookout for unusual and out of character  transactions.  
Im satisfied the request Mr J made  to transfer the sum he did was clearly  out of character 
and unusual for him. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN47385424The payment of £2860 that Mr J was making to the fraudster represented a large increase in 
spending from his account. From  the account history Lloyds  has provided, I can see that it 
was unusual for Mr J to make such a large single payment.
Lloyds accepts this was unusual for Mr Js account. But it says it wasnt  the first time Mr J 
had made  a Faster  Payments transfer. He had made a number of these  before.
But while I can see that Mr J had made previous Faster Payments transfers, those were for 
significantly lower sums.  Im also mindful  that this specific payment reduced  his account 
balance to £14.21. That left him without enough money to fund imminent direct debits. 
Again, I find this unusual  and out of character  for Mr Js account  this activity wasnt in line 
with way he typically operated his account. The account history suggests he was able to 
meet the upcoming payments only by arranging transfers in from another party after the 
scam subsequently  came  to light.
This relatively large  payment for Mr J was also being sent to a newly created payee on his 
account. Lloyds  has explained that many of its customers will send one-off payments to 
newly created payees, and that these might  be preceded by a deposit into the account. It 
has pointed to a credit Mr J paid into his account  a few days before the transfer  out as an 
indicator that he might  have been preparing  to make such  a one-off payment.
Ive thought carefully about all these factors. I agree with Lloyds that it needs to strike a 
balance in the extent to which it intervenes  in payments, against the risk of unduly 
inconveniencing or delaying legitimate payment requests.
But for the reasons Ive explained,  I think there  was enough going on here that ought  fairly 
and reasonably to have  alerted Lloyds  to this not being a typical transaction  for their 
customer. In particular, the effect  the transfer had on Mr Js balance, considered in 
combination with upcoming regular direct debit payments  strikes  me as being significantly 
out of keeping with Mr Js prior account history. 
Lloyds has highlighted  a credit Mr J made  to his account around  a week before  the scam 
and says this matches the pattern of a customer planning to make a large transfer out. But 
I note that Mr Js account balance, prior to the credit Lloyds has highlighted, was £2,830.86.  
Immediately before the scam the account balance had reverted back  to £2,874.21. That 
tends to suggest to me that any spending the credit  was intended  to cover had taken place 
by the time of the scam.  In any event, I am not persuaded that the credit on 23 February 
changes the unusual and out of character nature of the scam transaction.
Lastly, I think it has some relevance  that Mr J had previously been  the victim of disputed 
transactions. I consider this something Lloyds ought  fairly  and reasonably to have taken into 
account when  thinking about  the level of caution  needed in relation to Mr Js transactions.
All things  considered, Im persuaded this payment was unusual  and out of character, and to 
an extent that Id expect  Lloyds  to have identified it as such  in the moment. Consequently, 
I think Lloyds ought fairly  and reasonably,  and as a matter of good practice, to have done 
more, and made enquiries about  the purpose  of the payment before proceeding with it.
Ive taken account of Lloyds  comments that its approach is to balance the nature of the 
unusual transaction  with the presence of any other  red flags when making  the decision as to 
whether it should  to intervene. It says that in this case  its fraud detection system didnt 
identify the payment as having  high risk characteristics.
Ref: DRN47385425How Lloyds chooses to configure its fraud detection systems is a matter for it to decide. But 
the question I need to answer here is: based  on all the circumstances, do I consider Lloyds 
ought fairly and reasonably to have  done  more in Mr Js case  whether its fraud  prevention 
systems detected the payment or not.
For all the reasons Ive explained, I think Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably  to have 
identified that potentially Mr J was at risk of financial harm.  Im persuaded that as a matter of 
good practice, Lloyds  should fairly  and reasonably  have made  additional checks before 
processing the payment. Specifically, I consider Lloyds ought to have contacted  Mr J to 
question him about the purpose of payment  at the time. Had it done so I believe the scam  
would have become apparent and would have  been  prevented. Ill explain why.
Mr J fell victim to a scam which is sadly  all too common  a safe account  scam. And its a 
type of scam that Im satisfied Lloyds ought to have been aware of at the time. Based on 
what Mr J has said, Im persuaded that had Lloyds contacted Mr J about the payment to 
question what it was for, its more likely than not he would have explained he thought he was 
acting on Lloyds own instructions to protect his account.
I say this because  Mr J says he hadnt been given a cover story or prepared  one to use if 
hed been questioned. I also note he freely went into a branch the following day, which  led to 
the scam  being  readily uncovered by Lloyds. 
That leads me to find that, upon  making contact with Mr J and establishing the purpose  
behind the payment, Lloyds would have quickly identified this was not a legitimate transfer 
and that Mr J was in fact the victim of a scam.  The funds would not have been sent to the 
scammer and so would  not have been lost.
Finally, Ive thought  about Lloyds comments that Mr J did not do enough to protect himself, 
such as taking steps to validate the caller.  Im satisfied that Mr J was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam, including the use of text message  spoofing, and that he genuinely 
believed his money was at risk and that he needed to act quickly to protect  his savings. In 
the circumstances, and in the belief that he was dealing  with his bank and following its 
instructions, I find it understandable he acted without delay.
Lloyds also indicates  that when making the payment Mr J would have seen that it was going  
to another bank,  and not to a new Lloyds account.  It questions whether Mr J ought to have 
noticed this at the time and whether this should  have led Mr J to question the legitimacy of 
the caller. 
Mr J says he doesnt recall seeing  this information at the time. Lloyds hasnt evidenced 
exactly what Mr J might have been shown on his mobile banking, but if I accept that this was 
displayed, the available  evidence leads me to conclude that either  he didnt see this 
information, or he did but that it did not make an impression on him in the moment. Im not 
persuaded the evidence  leads me to conclude it most likely he saw it yet chose  to ignore it. 
Again, in the context of believing at the time he needed to act in haste  to follow  his banks 
instructions and protect his money,  I can appreciate  why he might reasonably have not 
noticed this information or that it might  reasonably  not have made an impact on him in the 
pressure and seeming urgency of the moment. As Ive said,  Im satisfied Mr J was the victim 
of a sophisticated and cruel  scam  here.
Overall, I find that Lloyds should  refund  Mr J the money he lost as a result  of this scam.
Ref: DRN47385426putting things right
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Js complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.  I do 
not think it was fair and reasonable  for Lloyds not to refund the amount Mr J lost 
through becoming the victim  of a scam.
I now direct  Lloyds Bank PLC to:
-refund Mr J the amount of the Faster Payments  transfer, deducting the sum of £80.13 
that has already been returned  to him.
-pay interest on this amount at a rate of 8% simple interest, from the date of the 
withdrawal to the date of settlement.  If Lloyds deducts  tax from the interest 
element of this award, it should  provide Mr J with the appropriate  tax deduction 
certificate.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should calculate  and 
pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 May 2020.
Stephen Dickie
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4738542