K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs J says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Halifax no longer  has a copy of Mrs Js signed  credit agreement. Considering  how long 
ago the sale took place this isnt surprising. It has however given us a sample copy of the 
type of form Mrs J wouldve completed when applying  for her PPI policy.  Ive looked  
closely at it and can see there is a section  related  to PPI where  the customer  could tick a 
box if they wanted to take the policy. 
Where I have limited evidence from the time of the sale,  as I do here,  I have to think  
about what  is more  likely to have happened. And with what Ive seen, and what  I know of 
how Halifax generally sold PPI, I think its more likely that Halifax made it clear that Mrs J 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out. I can understand though 
why Mrs J might not remember that now.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs J, so it had to check  that it was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and she seems 
to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think she chose  to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this type 
of cover. And it seems like it wouldve  been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
wouldve put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs J has said, including what shes said about the sick pay 
she had and her life insurance policy.  But the PPI would have paid out for longer than Mrs J 
has said her full sick pay would have lasted, and it provided a different kind of cover  to life 
insurance. It also wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if she lost her job. So with this in 
mind, I still think  the PPI could have  provided her with a useful benefit.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs J paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs J back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mrs J, and I dont  think it needs to do 
anything more. 
Ref: DRN47762572my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs J to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4776257