K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mr and Mrs O say Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs O took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1997. Even though  this was a joint 
mortgage, only Mr O was insured under  the policy. Mr O took out cover for unemployment 
only for which he paid a monthly  amount.  In 1998  the policy was amended to provide Mr O 
with cover for accident and sickness as well as unemployment. If he had made a successful 
claim, the policy would  have  paid out the repayment benefit for up to 24 months.
In 2000, when taking a further advance, the policy was amended  to increase the monthly  
benefit to cover the additional repayments.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Os case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I appreciate  this will come  as a disappointment to 
Mr and Mrs O and Ill explain the reasons why Ive reached this conclusion.
I think Nationwide  made it clear that Mr and Mrs O didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because Ive been  given a copy of the mortgage application 
from the time and I can see that there is a section for the PPI. The form includes  printed 
information about the level of cover chosen  and also the length of time they wanted the 
policy to cover Mr O for. I think  its likely the information on the form was a reflection  of their 
conversation with the mortgage advisor.  I can see that both Mr and Mrs O have signed the 
form which suggests they agreed  with everything  it contained.
Mr and Mrs O have said they were  told they had to take out the unemployment PPI as they 
were taking out an interest only mortgage. But I havent seen anything on the documentation  
which suggests that the unemployment cover was a requirement of the mortgage.  And Ive 
noted that cover was taken for Mr O only. So, based on the information I do have, I think its 
more likely that Mr and Mrs O were given  information about  the policy and made a choice 
about who to insure  and whether to take out all of the cover  on offer.
Ive also seen that Mr and Mrs O have referred to the special conditions  shown in the 
mortgage offer which was sent to them after their application for the mortgage had been 
agreed. They have referred  to the part which  states  the following;
If you cancel  any cover during the Benefit period, your account  may be converted to 
the Variable Rate then applicable and the Early Redemption Fee provisions will 
apply.
Ref: DRN47395232They say it is clear  from this condition that the policy was a requirement of the particular 
mortgage. Ive noted  what they have said but I dont  think this means that they had to take 
out PPI cover. I say this because  the excerpt they are referring to above  is not the whole 
condition as detailed  in the offer. The full condition  states the following;
INSURANCE CONDITION: - You must insure  your building and contents through 
Nationwide for at least the Benefit  period. However, if the building is insured by the 
Landlord under the terms of a lease, you need only insure your contents  through  
us. 
If you cancel any cover during the Benefit period, your account may be converted  
to the Variable  Rate then applicable and the Early Redemption Fee provisions  will 
apply.
When reading this in full, I think it is clear  that any cancellation of cover, as described in 
the condition,  applies to the building  and contents insurance, which was a requirement  of 
the mortgage. I dont  think  this applies  to the PPI taken out under the policy.  
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think its more  likely that Nationwide  
made it clear  that the policy was optional and that Mr and Mrs O agreed to take it out, 
knowing they could  refuse it if they didnt want it.
Nationwide says it didnt  recommend the PPI but Mr and Mrs O have told us they did 
receive advice from Nationwide. Having looked at the paperwork available,  I havent seen 
anything which shows that Nationwide made  a personal recommendation that Mr O 
should take the policy, based on his financial situation. So I think its more likely that 
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy to Mr O. This means it didnt  have to check  if it 
was right for him. But it did need  to make sure Mr and Mrs O got all the information they 
needed to decide for themselves if the cover  was right for them.  
Its possible that not all the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs O about  the PPI was 
as clear as it shouldve been. But they chose to take out PPI for Mr O only - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so 
it would  have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking 
out the cover.
Mr O has told us that he suffered from medical conditions prior to taking out the policy so 
he couldnt have  claimed on the policy. Whilst this policy did exclude pre-existing 
conditions, this exclusion only applied if treatment  or advice was provided for those 
conditions in the first 12 months of cover. And after the first year, all conditions were  
covered. Taking  into account what Mr O has told us about the conditions he suffered from I 
dont think this would have affected his decision to take out the policy. 
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs O.
But Nationwide will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs O because:
Ref: DRN47395233When the policy was sold,  Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission  and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs O 
about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs O, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs O have said  including what they have said about  
not needing the policy as Mr O was entitled  to sick pay and he had an income protection  
policy. They  have also told us that they had savings and other investments they could have 
used to meet their repayments if Mr O wasnt working. I appreciate what  they have told us 
but this policy was sold on a non-advised basis, meaning that it was for Mr and Mrs O to 
decide if the cover was right for them  based on what they knew  of their own personal 
circumstances. And it appears that they did do this as they only took out unemployment 
cover for Mr O initially.  From what Mr and Mrs O have told us, they added the accident and 
sickness cover the following year as the increase to the premium  was not significant. Ive 
noted that they have told us this doesnt form part of their complaint about  the PPI policy.  So 
it seems that they added this additional  cover  despite knowing they had an income 
protection policy in existence and sick pay benefits  from Mr Os employer.
And whilst I note Mr and Mrs O may have had other means such as savings, to help them 
make their repayments if Mr O wasnt working, by having this policy  it meant they could 
protect their savings for another purpose or use them to cover  other  essential  living  
expenses which would  still have  had to be met. Ive noted that Mr and Mrs O appear to have 
chosen to take out further advances on their mortgage rather  than use their savings  so it 
would seem they were  holding these funds for another reason. So these points dont  alter 
my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back to Mr and Mrs O any commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back to 
Mr and Mrs O any extra interest they paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs O the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide should 
also pay Mr and Mrs O 8%* simple interest on each payment.
In addition to this, I understand Nationwide has offered  to refund the premiums that were 
paid by Mr and Mrs O after Mr O stopped working in 2013.  This is because he was no 
longer eligible for the cover. I think this is a fair offer as Mr O couldnt have made  a claim 
during this period and the relevant premiums should be reimbursed, along  with simple 
interest on this payment  as detailed above.  
*Businesses have to take basic  rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs O can claim back  the tax if they dont  pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs O.
Ref: DRN47395234But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs O any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Nationwide also needs to refund the premiums  that were paid by Mr and Mrs O from April 
2013 until the policy was cancelled. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4739523