K821x#15Complaint
Mr D complains that Clydesdale  Bank  Plc refused to let him reject a faulty car.
Background
In April 2017 Mr D acquired  new car costing  £56,394 funded by a hire purchase agreement 
and a deposit if £6,000.  He has had a litany of problems with it and the car has been 
repaired on several occasions by two different main  dealers.
Our adjudicator has set out the details of the various faults and the repairs effected by the 
two dealers. I trust both parties will understand that I dont consider it necessary to repeat 
these in detail  in this decision. 
Mr D first raised  concerns  in April not long after acquiring the car. These involved a paint 
issue and a chip on the bonnet, which were repaired but the valves were left with paint on 
them. The car also had problem with the brakes  and the back seat leather had ripples. The 
dealer made yet further repairs and confirmed  there  was fault with the brakes which  caused  
juddering. They carried out work on the discs  and made repairs.  Mr D says the dealer took 
two attempts to fix the brakes.
In November 2017 more faults  came to light including the brakes and the transfer box. It isnt 
clear exactly  what work was done, but the car was returned to Mr D. In July 2018 the car had 
a replacement transfer box fitted. More  work  was done in August 2018  and the transfer box 
was replaced again  in November 2018.
Mr D first raised  the issue  of rejection on 26 July, but was persuaded to allow  the dealer to 
carry out repairs. When he raised his concerns with Clydesdale  it said it was neutral and 
offered to mediate with the dealer. Mr D was offered  several  goodwill  gestures including a 
free service  and an extended warranty, but he became increasingly concerned as more  
problems arose or old ones reappeared.
Mr Ds complaint was rejected by Clydesdale and so he brought  the matter to this service 
where it was considered  by one of our adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld. She 
noted the various faults and also that the bank  had suggested an independent inspection. Mr 
D had rejected that offer as he didnt think it necessary. Our adjudicator  agreed.
She said Mr D had visited the dealers on multiple  occasions and the car had undergone a 
number of repairs and she didnt believe it was properly repaired.  She didnt think  it right that 
the dealer be allowed yet another chance  to effect  a repair  which may not resolve the 
problem. She suggested  Mr D be allowed to reject the car.
Clydesdale didnt agree  and the dealer sent its view of the situation. It said it was first aware 
of problem in July, although Mr D has submitted emails between  him and the dealer from 
April 2017 referring  to the initial faults.  The dealer has said the various faults  were  
intermittent and relatively minor. It had provided a courtesy car and the onus was on Mr D to 
demonstrate there  was an inherent  fault at the time of delivery. It didnt  think he had done  so. 
It also noted Mr D had accepted the repairs. 
Ref: DRN43371252My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Clydesdale is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I must admit I am somewhat  bemused that a dealer selling an expensive, premium brand of 
car thinks it is acceptable for the purchaser  of a new model to accept a long list of faults in 
the first 18 months. The brakes were in need of repair after it had done  4,700 miles and then 
again after 8,300 miles. It started juddering and had a major component  replaced  and 
according to Mr D it is still suffering  the same problem. For the avoidance of doubt Mr D has 
supplied credible and accurate testimony, backed up with copious emails.
Normally I too would  like to see an independent report, but in this case the list of 
documented repairs is sufficiently clear  to satisfy me that the car had inherent faults. The 
first problems arose with the first month and Mr D asked about  rejection within  six months. 
This service regards a car as single  item and the dealer has one opportunity  to effect a 
repair. If that repair fails or further faults occur  then consumer law entitles the purchaser to 
reject the goods.
Although I have the benefit of hindsight  I cant see why rejection wasnt  accept a long time 
ago. I appreciate Mr D has made  use of the car, but that doesnt mean it was in a 
satisfactory state. He didnt spend some £57,000 on a car simply to get from A to B. 
I am not sure why Clydesdale didnt act on this matter  sooner. It wasnt neutral as it claimed.  
It was the supplier of the car and the owner  and I think it should have been addressing Mr 
Ds concerns and I consider it should  have  insisted on rejection quite some time ago.
Therefore, I am upholding this complaint and directing Clydesdale to accept rejection of the 
car
Ref: DRN43371253My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Clydesdale Bank  Plc to:
end the agreement with nothing further  to pay
collect the car at no further cost to Mr D
refund  Mr Ds deposit
pay interest at 8% simple  interest on the deposit  from date of payment to date of 
settlement
remove the agreement from Mr Ds credit  file
pay £250 for the trouble and upset caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4337125