K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Canada  Square  Operations Limited (Canada Square) mis-sold him a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
My colleague issued a provisional decision in this case in April 2019 explaining why she 
didnt think Mr Ws complaint about his policy being mis-sold should  be upheld.  She asked 
both parties to provide any new evidence by 11 May 2019.
In my colleagues absence, I have taken over this complaint. Neither party  has provided any 
further evidence  or submissions for me to take into consideration.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any new evidence from the parties, I see no reason 
to depart from my colleagues findings  and provisional decision  that the policy  wasnt mis-
sold. As such I fully adopt the findings of my colleague so that they form part of my final 
decision. I have  set them out below:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Having done this, Ive formed the view that the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain the 
reasons for this. 
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the policy and based on the 
information thats been provided to us, Mr W met those  rules. This means that he was 
eligible for the cover and could have claimed  on the policy  if he needed to.
Next Ive considered  whether Canada Square made  it sufficiently clear to Mr W that the PPI 
was optional. Mr W applied for the card and the policy online in 2004.  In his complaint he 
told us that Canada Square  informed  him his application would  be rejected if he didnt  take 
out the PPI.
From what  we know about how Canada Square  sold this type of policy,  Mr W would have 
been asked to actively choose  to take out the PPI. Canada  Square has given us screenshots  
of what the application screens would have looked like. Mr W would have viewed  a screen 
which set out some  information about  the policy. This would have asked him to select  yes 
or no to show whether he wanted  to take it out. 
Ref: DRN47749222In my opinion, having read this, its most likely  that Mr W would have understood that it was 
his choice to take out or decline  the PPI. Given that the sale took place some considerable 
time ago I can understand Mr W may no longer recall everything about it. Ive carefully  
considered what  Mr W has told us but based on all the available  information, Im not 
persuaded that its most likely that Canada  Square  failed to give him a clear choice.
Next, Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI cover to Mr W so it didnt have to make 
sure that it was suitable for him. But Canada Square  was required to give him information 
about the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading so he could make the decision for 
himself about whether  or not to take the PPI. 
So Ive considered the possibility that Canada Square could  have given Mr W better  
information, and Ive gone on to look at whether the information would have  changed his 
mind about  the PPI.
Mr W told us that he didnt  need  the policy. He told us that if hed been too ill to work or was 
made unemployed he was entitled to sick pay and redundancy pay. He told us he would 
have had full sick pay for at least six months.  In addition, initially  when he brought  his 
complaint to us Mr W told us he had savings  worth between six and twelve months of his 
pay. He subsequently  clarified that the savings were  available on a 90 day notice period.
So looking  at whether better information would have made a difference,  I dont think that 
Mr W would  have been affected by the main exclusions and restrictions  under  the terms and 
conditions. And the cost and benefit  of the policy were comparable  to those of other similar 
policies available  at the time. The policy would have paid out after only 30 days  if Mr W was 
made unemployed or was too ill to work, whereas he couldnt have accessed  his savings 
without giving 90 days notice. So taking his circumstances into consideration, I dont think 
having better information about the PPI would have dissuaded Mr W from taking it out. 
In summary,  this means  I intend to find that Canada Square doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr W. But Canada Square  has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr W because: 
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because  Canada Square  didnt 
tell Mr W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
I understand Canada Square Operations Limited has already done  this, so I dont intend  to 
award any further compensation. 
Ref: DRN47749223Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4774922