K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed  to notify him that his funds had 
transferred from HSBC, to his Invest Direct ISA account, by 30 March 2018. 
Mr D says as a result of this failure:
he was unaware  of the transfer; 
he was unable to purchase the number of shares  he wanted; 
he has lost out on interest, dividends and tax savings for the year.  
background 
Mr Ds complaint relates to an ISA transfer  to HSBC Invest Direct which is a non-advised,
execution only share dealing service. It's a dual platform  service,  internet and telephone  
its not a branch service.
I understand Mr D had an existing Invest  Direct  Plus account. He wanted to transfer funds 
from his HSBC Bank Loyalty Cash ISA to an HSBC Invest Direct ISA and said he wanted to 
sell & buy before the end of the tax year.
HSBC says it informed  Mr D from the point of the first call (8 March 2018)  that to transfer  his 
ISA he'd need to complete an ISA transfer form and, to manage his expectations,  explained 
that the transfer could take up to 6 weeks (it's a transfer from one HSBC ISA manager  to 
another HSBC  ISA manager). The cut off time for that tax year purchase  was 5 April at 
11.30pm. The transfer completed on 6 April once the transferred funds had cleared.
I note HSBC received  the transfer application  form on 19 March 2018 and sought 
clarification on 21 March.
HSBC partially upheld the complaint  saying  there  was a delay in carrying out Mr Ds 
instructions. It said if it had actioned Mr Ds instructions to transfer on time, it wouldve 
completed the transfer two days earlier than it did. It has offered compensation on the basis  
of what Mr D was likely to make  had his transfer  been completed on time, compared to what 
he made, and £100 compensation  for the trouble  and upset caused.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but thought it should be partially  upheld.  In 
summary he said that HSBC didnt  stop Mr D from trading and had he contacted it he 
wouldve known that he could trade.  He was also satisfied that Mr D was notified of the 
transfer when  it was completed. So in the circumstances he said he cant  blame HSBC for 
any loss Mr D might have  incurred. He said HSBC should pay him £150 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators view. He maintains HSBC failed to notify him of the 
transfer and as a result  hes lost out financially. In summary, he made the following key 
points:
He discussed  with HSBC the importance  of the transfer by 30 March  2018,  so he 
could purchase  the HSBC bank shares before the end of the 2018 tax year. He also 
wanted to sell other shares to purchase a property. 
He was told by a member of staff that a letter sent on 9 April 2018  was addressed to 
HSBC  so sent to itself  he didnt receive the letter until 17 April 2018. Because  of 
Ref: DRN49793272this error  he wasnt aware of the funds being  transferred resulting in him being  
unable to purchase the shares, and the number of share, he wanted because the 
share prices had increased. Consequently  hes lost out on tax savings and dividend 
payments.  
He wanted  to sell his Royal Dutch Shares to enable him to buy HSBC  shares  in an 
ISA account to reduce his tax liability on his dividend  income  for the tax year 
2017/18, as the tax allowance  was reduced.
HSBC has only paid £100 of the £150 it said itd pay and even then the 
compensation is insufficient. He wants to be adequately compensated for the stress 
he has suffered but also the financial loss of not being able to buy the number of 
shares he wanted and the tax loss. 
HSBC made  the following key observations:
Two separate  letters were sent to Mr D, dated  9 April 2018. They were both correctly 
addressed and neither was sent back as undelivered. One letter confirmed the cash 
transfer had credited,  and the other confirmed the transfer  has been completed. 
The letter referred to by Mr D was an entirely different letter   it was dated 28 March 
and related to the ISA plan manager.  
Mr Ds online banking wouldve also shown when his £120,000 cash  left his cash ISA 
and when it was applied to his Invest Direct ISA. 
Any issues that were  to do with the post is outside of its control. A duplicate  was sent 
on 16 April not because  of any issue it was aware of, but because Mr D said he 
hadnt received  the letter.  
It paid the £100  it had originally offered. A letter making reference to £150 was a typo 
and should have said £100. 
The Royal Dutch Shares were already held within  Invest Direct and werent affected 
by the transfer.  
As already mentioned  it accepts  its responsible  for a two day delay and has offered 
compensation on this basis.  
In relation to tax and other  losses it said:
Mr D couldnt have a Bed & ISA until the next tax year because hed already fully
subscribed. Mr D couldnt  have sold Royal Dutch from his InvestDirect Taxed  account  
and purchased within his InvestDirect ISA until new tax anyway because hed already 
fully subscribed to the ISA.
The £120,000 cash transferred from the Cash ISA to the InvestDirect ISA were historic
subscriptions and so, once the cash was in the InvestDirect ISA it wouldnt have 
mattered if the tax year had changed. As historic subscriptions it didnt matter whether 
Mr D bought shares with the transferred cash in the last or current tax year.
Mr D says he didnt then make the trades because the HSBC  share  price  had changed 
so he could no longer afford the number  of shares that he required. HSBC  share  price  
information shows the prices in April 18. The price at points in subsequent months  
dropped below that of April 18.
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ref: DRN49793273Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. On 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr D says,  I partially  uphold  this 
complaint. I think £150 compensation for trouble and upset if fair and reasonable.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ds strength of feeling about this matter.  
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by him and HSBC, and reach what  I think  is an independent,  fair and 
reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
In the circumstances, on the face of the evidence and on balance Im unable  to say that 
HSBCs actions have caused Mr D a financial loss. 
We regularly receive  complaints where  either the business or a customer  claims not to have 
received a particular  communication, whether it is a letter or email. There is understandably 
a limit to what we can do to try and establish whether the communication was sent, correctly  
delivered or opened.  
In these situations we take the view that if a letter or email was correctly addressed, it was 
more likely than not correctly delivered either by post or electronically (whether this was 
opened it is impossible  to say). 
In this instance on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the two HSBC 
letters dated  9 April 2018  copies of which  were provided in its response to the adjudicators 
view - were correctly  addressed and sent to Mr D. I think  its unlikely that Mr D wouldnt have 
received at least one of the two letters, but I accept its possible  that he didnt. 
Even if he didnt receive either of the letters  because of some  issue  with the post  I cant  
hold HSBC responsible for this. Its obligation was only to send out the letters  and in the 
circumstances I think it acted reasonably to notify Mr D knowing this communication  was 
important to him. The information  was also available online and although  Mr D didnt like to 
go online  he still had access to this information.  
Im satisfied the letter Mr D refers to was in relation to a separate  matter  altogether,  
unconnected to the transfer  of his holdings. 
Ive seen no evidence  of Mr D making any effort to chase up HSBC about this issue. Given  
the importance of the transfer, I wouldve expected him to have contacted HSBC sooner to 
find out what was happening. I note HSBC  sent a duplicate dated 16 April 2018 because  
thats when Mr D contacted it to say hed not received any notification.  During this time Mr D 
Ref: DRN49793274could also have contacted HSBC to trade  but he didnt.  I note HSBC  have confirmed that it 
couldve carried out the trades  sooner.   
So, in the circumstances I cant hold HSBC responsible for any losses, if at all, sustained by 
Mr D. That said given what HSBC says Im not persuaded  that Mr D would necessarily  have 
lost out even if it had failed  to send the letters.  But the point  is now academic so I dont need  
to make a finding on it.  
That said I think the £150 compensation recommended by the adjudicator, for trouble and 
upset, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I note Mr D had difficulty getting in touch 
with the right department. 
I also think HSBCs  offer to pay Mr D compensation for the delay in carrying out his 
instructions is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It wasnt  necessary to seek  
clarification of the amount to be transferred after it had already been  made  clear  by Mr D. 
I note Mr D hasnt made  any additional  points since HSBCs response despite undertaking to 
do so and being given an opportunity to do so. But in the circumstances Im satisfied I dont  
need any further information to make my decision.  
I appreciate Mr D will be unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what he wants to hear.  But on the face of the 
available evidence, other than partially upholding the complaint, Im unable to give him what 
he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partially uphold this complaint. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  pay Mr D the following:
£150 compensation for the trouble and upset. 
Any loss caused  by the two day delay in carrying out Mr Ds instructions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4979327