K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement  with Northridge 
Finance Limited  is not of satisfactory  quality. He wants  Northridge to accept his rejection of 
the car.
background
Mr T obtained a second hand car using  a hire purchase agreement  with Northridge on 
8 January 2018. Shortly afterwards he says he noticed a strong smell of cigarette smoke.  
The supplying garage asked him to return the car for cleaning.  But the smell returned a 
couple of weeks  later. The garage  arranged two specialist cleans. But Mr T said the smell 
remained and he wanted to reject the car.
The supplying garage wouldnt  accept his rejection of the car. It said there were no 
mechanical faults and that the smell was from an air freshener.
Mr T complained to Northridge.  It didnt uphold his complaint,  but it offered to pay up to £100 
towards a further  cleaning  treatment and a preferential settlement figure for the agreement. 
Mr T didnt  accept this so referred  his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He concluded that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied because  of the smell and that at least 
two attempts at repair had been  unsuccessful. He thought Northridge should accept Mr Ts 
rejection of the car, cancel  the finance  agreement, and refund the deposit, plus interest.
Northridge didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
Mr T agreed to have the car repaired and this has been  completed. An independent 
specialist has confirmed the odour has been  removed.
Mr T provided a letter  from a garage saying  that the smell hadnt been  removed. But this 
letter isnt an inspection report and the garage  isnt an expert in odour treatment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement.  As such,  this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. Northridge  is the supplier of goods  under this 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  theres  an implied  term that the 
quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold  this complaint I would have to be 
persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has taken 
place.
Ref: DRN49373752In deciding whether  a car is of satisfactory  quality, some of the factors  to consider are its age 
and mileage when  it was supplied, and how long after supply the fault/s materialised.
The car supplied  to Mr T was around  three years old and its mileage was just over 
28,000 miles. Mr T hasnt  complained about the performance of the car  hes able to drive  
it. The only fault hes reported is a strong smell of cigarette smoke inside the car. 
I think an unpleasant  odour does affect a cars  quality. And whilst it might be unreasonable 
to expect a second hand  car to be odour-free; I do think  a reasonable person would expect 
any smell to disappear after cleaning and not to persist. And, particularly for a non-smoker, a 
smell of cigarette smoke, in the confined space of a car, could be very unpleasant. So I think 
the smell does impact on the satisfactory quality of the car.
I find the smell of cigarette smoke was present when the car was supplied  although initially 
thjs may have been masked by either the smell of a cleaning product or an air freshener.  
The supplying garage cleaned the car  both before it was supplied,  and after Mr T first 
complained. Later it said, all we did was cover up the smell and we both know  that failed. 
So the supplying  garage acknowledged  the smell was present.
It follows that I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied,  because 
of the smell.
Mr T reported the problem  soon  after the car was supplied. But this doesnt  necessarily 
mean he should be able to reject  the car. It seems reasonable, particularly because of the 
nature of the problem, that a repair should be attempted.
Mr T returned the car to the suppling garage  and it cleaned  it. But, as noted earlier,  it 
acknowledges it only covered up the smell rather than removed it. Mr T says the garage 
applied a fabric  protector, which only served to lock the smell in.
The garage then offered  to arrange  for an independent odour removal specialist to treat the 
car. Mr T says that on both occasions  the smell seemed to have  disappeared,  only to return  
after a couple  of weeks. 
Ive considered what the odour removal specialist  said. Before the first treatment, he 
confirmed a smell of cigarette smoke and a chemical based air freshener.  He said his 
treatment removed the smell of smoke, but that it might take a number of treatments to 
remove the chemical smell.
Before the second treatment, he reported  that the smoke odour had been removed and 
what was left was a heavy dull air freshener odour. After the second treatment he reported  
that:
After completion I was satisfied that the smoke odour was removed, and that the heavy dull 
air freshener odour would be removed or at least reduced
In my opinion two extended  odour  removal treatments in this vehicle will have removed  all 
cigarette odours, and there is a very high chance  the heavy dull air freshener odour has also 
been removed . 
But shortly  afterwards, Mr T says the smell came back. He asked an independent garage to 
check and it reported  that the car does have a strong cigarette odour. This was around  a 
month after the second odour removal treatment.
Ref: DRN49373753And, unfortunately, Mr T reports that the car still has an odour and that this is particularly 
strong in warmer weather.
Ive considered this carefully, taking into account  that when Mr T returned the car to the 
supplying garage  most  recently, several members of staff couldnt  smell cigarette smoke, or 
any other odour.
I think the smell may be tolerable to some people,  particularly if they smoke themselves. And 
some people are not as sensitive to smells as others.  Its also possible that the smell is only 
noticeable after spending  some degree  of time in the car.
Mr T told us he still has to have the car regularly valeted because of the smell; and at least 
one other  person  the independent garage   has confirmed a smell of smoke.  I dont think  
its relevant that the garage isnt an odour specialist  the car either smells or it doesnt and I 
dont think an expert  opinion is needed. So, on balance, I dont think the attempts to remove 
the smell have worked. 
As the supplying garage has had three attempts to remove  the smell, and Ive found these 
have failed, I think Northridge  should  now accept Mr Ts rejection  of the car. It should cancel 
the agreement  with nothing further  for him to pay, remove  it from Mr Ts credit file and refund 
his deposit, plus interest.
Ive also considered whether Northridge should refund any of the payments Mr T has made  
under the agreement. But, as hes continued  to drive the car, I think  its fair that he pays  for 
this use. Likewise, he should have  to pay for the normal costs of running a car, such  as 
insurance.
We asked Mr T if there were any other costs hed incurred that hed like to be taken into 
consideration, for example  the cost of valeting the car. But he says he doesnt want to claim 
for these  costs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Northridge Finance Limited should:
1.Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
2.Collect the car at no cost to Mr T.
3.Refund the deposit Mr T paid - £300.
4.Remove the finance agreement from Miss Ws credit file.
Item 3 is subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Northridge Finance Limited  to take off tax from this 
interest. Northridge Finance Limited  must give Mr T a certificate showing how much  tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN49373754Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4937375