K820x#14complaint
Mr K and Mrs Y complain  that Santander UK Plc unfairly declined their chargeback  claim. 
background
On 8 December  2017 Mr K made  two payments to a third party  (the merchant) that 
supposedly offered  a trading platform. Mr K says he was led to believe he would  get a 
segregated account which he could  use to trade. But he was never given an account  and on 
31 December 2018 he contacted the merchant and cancelled the service.  
Mr K raised a chargeback claim with Santander  around the 10 January 2019 but it was 
declined. They felt the claim didnt meet the Visa chargeback rules as Mr K and Mrs Y had 
waited more than 120 days from the date of the transactions to request a chargeback.  
Santander said this claim had been made too late and declined it. 
Unhappy with the situation, Mr K and Mrs Y referred their complaint to our service. An 
investigator also thought the chargeback claim hadnt been raised in time so didnt uphold 
the complaint.  
Mr K responded and said he had raised  the complaint within 120 days  of the last day of the 
expected service, which was 31 December 2018.  As Mr K and Mrs Y didnt accept the 
investigators view, their complaint has been passed to me to look at.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K used a Visa card to make the payments to the merchant so I must consider the Visa 
chargeback rules. Mr K and Mrs Y asked Santander to raise  a chargeback under Visa 
reason code 13.1.  
This Visa rule says a claim should be raised no later than 120 days from when the payment 
was made.  That gave Mr K 120 days from the 8 December 2017 to raise  the claim.  But he 
didnt meet this deadline. This means  the chargeback claim raised by Mr K and Mrs Y failed, 
in my opinion, to meet the relevant  criteria.  
In light of this Im afraid I dont think Santander  has acted unfairly  by not carrying  out the 
chargeback request. I do appreciate that Mr K and Mrs Y will be terribly disappointed  with 
my decision.  But overall I dont think Santander  has behaved unreasonably. 
It should also be noted that if Santander thought the chargeback was unlikely to be 
successful, they didnt have to raise  it. And based on the evidence  they had, Santander 
seem to have felt this way.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2020.
Ref: DRN47272552Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4727255