K821x#15complaint
Mr H acquired  a package  holiday  in March 2018,  partly paid for using his Barclays Bank UK 
PLC (trading as Barclaycard) credit card. He complains that the goods acquired  were not of 
satisfactory quality, and he wants Barclaycard to refund their full cost.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 18 November 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained why I disagreed with our investigators  view 
that Barclaycards settlement offer was fair and reasonable, and that the complaint should 
not be upheld.  I thought  the complaint should  be upheld, and the settlement offer should be 
increased.
Both Mr H and Barclaycard disagreed with my provisional decision.  Mr H agreed that the 
complaint should  be upheld,  but that the compensation award should be in the range 70% to 
100% of his package holidays full cost.
Barclaycard initially  offered  to refund about  10% of the full package cost, as a goodwill 
gesture. It later increased this offer to 40% of the full cost. 
But, in its response,  Barclaycard said it subsequently viewed the increased offer as 
excessive  and feedback  to that effect  had been given  to the member of its staff who made 
this decision. It did not regard  a further increase to 50% as fair or reasonable, although it 
accepted that Mr H would now be awarded at least 40% of the full cost.  
Barclaycard pointed out:
Shortly before he was due to travel,  Mr H was advised that some  of the facilities  he 
had paid for might not be available, or of the quality the provider had described when 
he booked the package
The provider offered a full refund or alternative accommodation,  but Mr H rejected 
both these options, and so (in its view) he cannot complain about issues of which he 
was aware
Customers who reject  a full refund of their package should  not be allowed to take up 
their package  and then to ask for a refund, based on issues they already know  about,  
when they return  home
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not persuaded by Mr Ms view that the compensation award should be in the range 
70% to 100% of his package holidays full cost. As I pointed  out in my provisional decision:
Barclaycards responsibilities are limited
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to decide what we consider to be a 
fair, reasonable and proportionate settlement  of this complaint
Ref: DRN48613952I do not think that a compensation award  in the range 70% to 100% of the full package  cost 
would be proportionate, because Mr H had derived some benefit from the holiday. But I am 
mindful of the circumstances  in which he decided not to accept the alternative offers made to 
him by the package  provider:
The issues arose shortly before he was due to travel, and so the opportunities 
available would  have  been limited for him   
oeither to find a suitable alternative  package with the same provider, for the 
same or very similar dates
oor to accept a refund,  and then find a suitable alternative package with 
another provider,  for the same or very similar dates  
The issues related  to one part of his holiday, but not to the other  part (from which  he 
did not necessarily  suffer  a loss of enjoyment) 
Mr M had made financial commitments  with other  businesses  during the part of his 
holiday affected by the issues, which he thought he would not be able to recover 
(again because the issues arose shortly before he was due to travel)
Barclaycards view that Mr H cannot  complain about issues of which  he was aware, because 
he rejected both options offered to him by the package provider, may or may not be 
applicable in other circumstances. But, in the specific circumstances of Mr Hs complaint, I 
am also not persuaded by this view. 
I think Mr H was faced with an unenviable  choice, once more because  the issues arose 
shortly before he was due to travel. I accept that, even  if he could not find a suitable 
alternative package  at short notice, he could have  cancelled and received a full refund, and 
he would  not then have lost out financially. 
But I think it is more likely  than not that Mr H would have suffered a much greater loss of 
enjoyment than he actually did. And so I understand why he chose to proceed with his 
package holiday.
In these circumstances, I find it is fair that he should  receive compensation relating to the 
part of his holiday, from which it is reasonable to assume that he suffered loss of enjoyment. 
And I continue to feel that the compensation award recommended in my provisional decision 
is both proportionate and appropriate.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement of it, I order Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) to refund to 
Mr H 50% of his holiday package cost.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48613953COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
18 November 2019
complaint
Mr H acquired a package holiday in March  2018, partly paid for using his Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(trading as Barclaycard)  credit card. He complains that the goods acquired were  not of satisfactory 
quality, and he wants  Barclaycard to refund their full cost.
background
Shortly before he was due to travel, Mr H encountered some  issues with the holiday, about the quality 
of accommodation in one of the two locations in which he was staying  as part of the package. The 
package provider told him that he could  either amend his booking free of charge, or cancel for a full 
refund.
Mr H said:
He was unhappy with booking  amendment  options  available
But he was also unwilling to cancel with the package provider, because of services  at the 
holiday location he had booked  with other businesses, for which  he had already committed  
considerable payments that he would  be unable  to recover at such short  notice
And so he decided  to proceed with his original  booking
He was very unhappy  with the holiday experience  he felt that some aspects  of package had 
been mis-represented when he was booking the holiday,  and some  aspects were not of 
satisfactory quality
And so he complained to the package provider, but got nowhere
He was advised that his complaint could be pursued through either  an independent arbitration  
process or the small claims court
He decided to refer his complaint to Barclaycard
Barclaycard has a responsibility to ensure  that goods of satisfactory  quality, and corresponding to 
their description, have been supplied. This means  that a reasonable person would have  regarded the 
goods as satisfactory, taking  into account all relevant circumstances.   
But there are limits to Barclaycards responsibilities. In particular, it is not responsible for the quality  of 
customer service  delivered by the package provider. And it would not have been responsible for any 
financial losses Mr H might have incurred with other businesses, if he had decided to cancel his 
booking. 
Barclaycard did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. But it initially  offered to refund about 18% of the full 
package cost, as a goodwill gesture. It felt this amount reflected the loss of enjoyment Mr H had 
experienced. It added that it would not consider  refunding the full cost,  because Mr H had derived 
some benefit from the holiday.
Mr H rejected this offer,  which  Barclaycard  then increased to about 40% of the full package cost.  Mr H 
rejected the revised offer as well, and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator thought that Barclaycards  approach in dealing with this complaint was fair and 
reasonable, and that its settlement offer was proportionate. Mr H disagreed, and so this complaint 
was referred for review by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN48613954my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
On the one hand, Mr H argues that what he acquired  was a package, which is a single product and 
cannot be seen as divisible.  Important parts of it were mis-represented and/or not of satisfactory  
quality. So Barclaycard  should  comply  with the law, and should refund the full package cost. 
Mr H says that he would have accepted around 70% of the package  cost,  if this had been offered by 
Barclaycard initially. But, in his view, Barclaycard  has chosen  to draw out the process, causing further 
distress and inconvenience, and he is no longer  willing to do so.
Mr H adds:
This was meant to be a special luxury holiday, and he should not have been put through  the 
negative experience he encountered, and so badly treated in the way he was 
He derived no benefit  from the holiday  if he had known in advance what  he would 
experience, he would not have travelled
On the other hand, Barclaycard points out that Mr H was given the opportunity to cancel with a full 
refund, which  he did not take. Having decided  to travel, a full refund  would not be proportionate 
compensation. 
As noted earlier, Barclaycards responsibilities are limited. And Mr H might achieve  a greater 
settlement, if he pursued the package provider through another dispute resolution service or the 
courts.  
 
Also, as our investigator told Mr H, it is not for the Financial Ombudsman Service to decide whether 
Mr H has a lawful claim against Barclaycard.  Only the courts can do this. Our role is to decide  what  
we consider to be a fair, reasonable and proportionate settlement of this complaint.
I share our investigators and Barclaycards view that a full refund would not be proportionate.  But, in 
disagreement with Barclaycard, I find the available evidence firmly shows that Mr Hs complaint 
should be upheld. And I agree with our investigator that Barclaycard has (in effect)  already accepted 
that Mr H has a valid claim, within the limits of its responsibilities.
Taking into account the arguments made by both Mr H and Barclaycard, I conclude that a 
proportionate settlement  of this complaint is a 50% refund of the full package  cost.  I invite both parties  
to accept that this fully represents appropriate  recognition of the loss of enjoyment experienced by Mr 
H. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further  comments  or evidence I receive  from Mr 
H or Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard)  by 18 December 2019, my provisional  decision 
is that I uphold this complaint. My recommended provisional settlement is that Barclaycard should  
refund to Mr H 50% of his holiday package cost.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4861395