K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains Barclays Bank  UK PLC will not refund a disputed  transaction.
background
Mrs E complained to Barclays  about  an ATM withdrawal which  she says she did not make.   
She accepted being at that particular ATM and making a withdrawal  but the disputed 
transaction appeared to have been made before the genuine one.
Barclays looked into her complaint   including speaking to the ATM owners. On the 
evidence available  to it, it decided to hold Mrs E liable  for the transaction.   It offered Mrs E 
compensation of £50 for the delay in dealing with her complaint.
Mrs E then came to this service.  She  told our investigator that CCTV from the ATM would 
show she had not withdrawn the larger amount.  But CCTV was not available.
Our investigator explained she would not be asking Barclays to refund this money and 
explained why.  But Mrs E was not happy with that response and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  but based on what I have seen, I cannot 
say Barclays has been unfair or unreasonable in its response to Mrs Es complaint.
Mrs E accepts she was at the ATM, but says that she withdrew £10 only and not the £150  
that she is complaining  about.  She  questions  why she would make two withdrawals within  
minutes of each other.  
I agree  that this may be unusual  to Mrs E but is not, generally speaking,  unusual activity.  
There are a number of reasons why someone may go back  and make  a second or third 
withdrawal.
Some of the evidence which I have considered carefully comes from the ATM itself.  It 
showed as being in good working  order with no faults reported.  No issues  had been  raised  
about transactions before and after Mrs Es and ultimately, the ATM balanced on the day in 
question.  The roll from the ATM  also shows Mrs Es card being entered, PIN being entered 
and the money  being taken from the ATM for both the disputed and accepted transaction.
Mrs E says the card was always with her. She went to the ATM, put her card in and then 
came away  to go to her daughter.  She then went back  to make the withdrawal.  But  she had 
initially told Barclays that she had entered her PIN and the ATM had failed to dispense  the 
£10.
And the timings between  Mrs E arriving at the ATM, stepping away again  and then returning  
would simply not allow  for someone  to take her card, use to it to withdraw  the money and 
then replace it with Mrs E  all without her realising.
I accept that CCTV of the day may have given  us a clearer  picture as to what actually 
happened.  But the ATM owner  has confirmed  that there are no cameras  at that ATM  - and 
Ref: DRN40050122even if there  were at the time of the disputed  transaction, they would no longer be available  
now.
So, Im sorry to have to tell Mrs E that I cant see anything to suggest Barclays  has been 
unfair in rejecting her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4005012