K820x#14complaint
Miss J says PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender (PDL Finance) irresponsibly  lent to 
her.
background
This complaint is about 4 instalment loans which PDL Finance provided to Miss J between  
December 2017  and November 2018. Miss Js borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date  TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 01/12/2017 22/01/2018 6 £300.00 £117.20
2 11/02/2018 27/03/2018 6 £200.00 £71.90
3 03/07/2018 30/08/2018 6 £200.00 £78.13
4 22/11/2018 20/01/2019 6 £200.00 £95.73
Miss J complained the loans were made irresponsibly bearing in mind her income was 
£1,782 per month and her monthly  outgoings  were  £1,818.
Two of our adjudicators rejected Miss Js complaint. Miss J disagreed with our adjudicators  
views and asked for the matter to be looked  at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
PDL Finance  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss J 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that PDL Finance should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN44278992refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But I dont think  we reach  that point here, 
in Miss Js case.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL Finance was required to 
establish whether  Miss J could sustainably repay her loans   not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Js complaint.
For her 4 loans, Miss Js highest  repayment was around £117.20  per month.  Ive seen a 
record of the information  Miss J provided when she completed each  loan application. At the 
time, Miss J said her income, at its lowest level, was £1,900 per month. She also told PDL 
Finance that her outgoings varied  slightly over the months, but at its highest level, her 
monthly outgoings were  around £1,150. This would give her a disposable income  of around 
£700 per month.  So based on the information  PDL Finance had at the time of the loan 
applications, I think her loans were affordable for her.
I havent seen  any further information  that shows its likely PDL Finance was made aware  of 
any financial  problems Miss J might  have been having at that time. And due to the amounts 
borrowed, her declared circumstances  at the time and her history  with PDL Finance, I 
havent seen anything that would  have prompted  it to investigate Miss Js circumstances 
further. So I think it was reasonable for PDL Finance to rely on the information it obtained.
I noted Miss J recently told us she had a lower income and higher outgoings, but I have not 
seen anything on the file that PDL Finance was aware of these  figures. So again, I think it is 
reasonable to say PDL Finance was able to rely on the information it had obtained to make  
its lending decisions.
Taking everything into account,  I think the assessments PDL Finance did for Miss Js loans 
were proportionate. And I think  its decisions to lend to Miss J were reasonable. So Im not 
upholding Miss Js complaint about them. 
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Ref: DRN44278993Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4427899