K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC cancelled one of his two motor insurance  
policies after it said it didnt receive  the correct  proof  of his No Claims Discount (NCD). He 
wants the cancellation marker removed from his record and compensation for the time its 
taken to sort this out. 
background
Mr A took out two policies through Tesco. It emailed him requesting  proof of his NCD for 
policy one, and then three days later for policy two. Mr A said he logged into Tescos online 
portal and he was directed to submit the NCD proof for policy  two. As Tesco  hadnt  had the 
NCD proof for policy one, it wrote  to and emailed  Mr A saying  the policy would be cancelled  
if proof wasnt provided. Mr A again  logged in and he said he was again directed to submit 
the proof for policy two. A week later he had an email saying that policy one was cancelled.  
Mr A was unhappy that he hadnt  been  given a chance to rectify the matter. He thought 
Tescos online system was flawed. He thought  he was being penalised by the cancellation 
when he hadnt  done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Tesco 
had twice asked  Mr A for the NCD proof for policy one, giving him clear  timeframes for this. 
He thought Tesco had given Mr A reasonable notice of the cancellation. So he didnt think  
Tesco had done anything wrong. 
Mr A replied  that he thought hed made a reasonable  attempt to provide the information 
requested. He thought the problem  lay with Tescos portal being unsuitable for people  with 
multiple policies.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr As frustration. He says hes being penalised for an administrative error 
on Tescos part. But Im not able to uphold his complaint. Ill now explain why I think  this. 
Mr A took out two polices with Tesco in a short  space of time. I can see that this wasnt a 
multi-car policy, but two separate policies, and Tesco  corresponded  with him separately 
about them. I dont  think its unusual for a broker to request information from the consumer, 
such as proof of NCD, to validate a policy.
Like the investigator, Ive looked  at the emails and letters Tesco sent to Mr A asking for his 
proof of NCD. Ive looked at what it asked for, the timescales it gave for Mr A to respond  and 
how it warned him about potential cancellation.
I think Tesco made it clear to Mr A that it needed his NCD proof for policy one. The policy 
number is clearly stated on its correspondence in the header and again in the text. Mr A said 
the online system directed him to policy two. But I think  it was for him to check  that he was 
providing the NCD proof for the correct policy. He said he provided the same proof for policy 
two twice. I think he might have realised that he hadnt responded to Tescos request for 
proof for policy one. 
Ref: DRN43484542I think Tesco gave Mr A ample warning that it needed this information from him or else the 
policy would cancel. I think this was clearly stated in its letter and email to him giving him 
seven days notice of cancellation. In fact, it allowed more  than seven days  notice before it 
cancelled the policy. 
So I think Tesco made it clear to Mr A what information was needed to validate his policy. I 
think it gave him enough  time to respond. I think it gave him fair notification  of the policys 
cancellation. So I cant say that Tesco cancelled the policy unfairly or unreasonably.
Tesco said it didnt post its cancellations  externally so Mr A wouldnt have a cancellation 
marker on his record. But I think when he applies for future insurance its for Mr A to answer  
any questions about previous cancellations correctly.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4348454