K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI)  didnt take payment for his home 
insurance policy for his second home  and then cancelled, and refused to reinstate, the 
policy.
background
In December 2018 Mr Ms policy was due to automatically renew. However as Mr M had 
cancelled his card due to a fraud  alert, his card provider  declined payment. UKI wrote  to 
Mr M to tell him this, and then sent a reminder.  It sent a further letter advising the policy 
would be cancelled if payment wasnt received within 19 days.  As no payment was received  
UKI then wrote  to Mr M on 22 January  2019  to advise that the policy had been cancelled. 
Mr M received that letter. He registered  a complaint with UKI and attempted to get his policy 
reinstated. UKI said Mr M could apply for a new policy but unfortunately, for the amount of 
contents cover Mr M was requesting, it couldnt offer that policy  as new business. Mr M had 
to insure elsewhere  at a higher price.
Mr M contended that he hadnt received any of the first three  letters warning him about 
cancellation. He believed that it was unlikely that number of letters  would go astray  and he 
hadnt had any other  problems  receiving  post. He said that the account to which  the card 
was linked was still open and felt that UKI should  have done  more to get in touch with him or 
his card provider. He believes that UKI should recompense  him for the difference in cost for 
his new policy.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said UKI had acted in accordance with its terms 
and conditions and that he had seen  screenshots to show  the letters were sent. As to 
reinstating the policy he said that that was a commercial decision for UKI. He thought  it had 
acted reasonably.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has shown us screenshots of the dates the first three letters  were  sent to Mr M and the 
content of those letters. This is its normal approach  in such  cases and Im satisfied that its 
more likely than not that the letters were sent. I can understand  Mr Ms upset if he didnt  
receive those letters  and I cant explain why he didnt receive them. If a payment authority is 
linked to a specific  card rather than (as in a standing  order  or direct debit) to an account, 
then any payment will be declined if the card is no longer in use. It was up to Mr M to update 
UKI with his new card payment details when he was issued  with a replacement  card.
I appreciate also that Mr M feels that UKI shouldve contacted him by some  other  method 
e.g. by email or telephone.  Whilst this might have been a good idea, when UKI is renewing 
many policies a day its perhaps  understandable  that it has a standard process. And its 
unlikely that three letters  would go astray.
Unfortunately, as Mr Ms policy was cancelled  UKI was unable  to reinstate it and had to treat 
his request for a new policy as new business. And in Mr Ms circumstances it wasnt  able to 
issue a new policy on the basis  of the amount of cover  Mr M required for his contents, even 
Ref: DRN45543212if that cover was available  under his old policy. It has a sister company that would provide 
the level of cover Mr M required but this would only apply if he had a policy  with that 
company for his main residence as well. Regrettably that means  Mr M has had to insure  
elsewhere, at higher  price. UKIs decision that it wont  offer cover is a commercial one  
generally its free to offer policies on whatever terms it decides. 
Im afraid I cant see that UKI has done anything wrong in Mr Ms case. Its unfortunate that 
his non receipt of letters  has meant he has had to insure elsewhere but I cant hold UKI 
responsible for that.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint against  U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4554321