K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr H holds  with The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as 
Platform). Mr H has raised various concerns including  such things as communication issues, 
court action and General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) issues.
background
I wont go into the full background  to this complaint as it is extensive and well-known to both 
sides. Ill deal with the issues Mr H has raised in the findings section below under broad 
headings, rather than listing  them  here. Mr H took out this mortgage  with Platform in 2006 
and, due to arrears on the account, legal action was taken. There have  been  various  
complaints raised  over the years. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr Hs complaint be upheld. Mr H didnt agree, and 
so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr H wont  take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments  to what  I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  Were 
impartial between,  and independent  from, consumers  and businesses. What this means  is 
that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers  instructions  or take 
directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions  should be answered.
Ive read Mr Hs recent emails that he sent after receiving a subject access request he made 
to our service, and I note his concerns including that Platform  hasnt given us full disclosure.  
Were an independent dispute  resolution scheme  and we ask for the information we need so 
we can fairly  decide a case. 
We dont ask for  or listen to  every single call thats taken place. If theres a particular call 
that we want to listen to then well request that from the business.  The same  goes  for the 
paperwork. We dont  need sight of everything  thats  ever been issued, we ask for what  we 
specifically need.  Ive considered all the points Mr H has raised and the information  that 
weve got from both sides. Having done so, Im satisfied I can fairly  decide this complaint 
without needing  any further information from Platform  and/or Mr H.
GDPR
Mr H is unhappy that his mortgage account is being  administered by Capita on behalf of 
Platform; he says this is a breach of GDPR.  Mr H issued several cease and desist notices 
which he says havent been acted on.
Capita acts on behalf of Platform, as the Co-operative Bank has chosen to use Capitas 
employees to carry out the day-to-day  servicing of its mortgage  accounts. This means that 
Capita is acting as a data processor, as defined at Article 4 (8) processor means a natural 
Ref: DRN43570392or legal person, public  authority, agency  or other  body which processes personal data on 
behalf of the controller;. Details of the roles can be found in Chapter IV Controller and 
processor which are Articles 24-31.
Under GDPR Platform is allowed to appoint Capita  employees to service mortgages on its 
behalf as data processors. Mr H cant opt-out of that as thats how Platform operates its 
business. Cease  and desist notices dont have  to be acted on, unless Mr H chooses  to 
redeem his mortgage with Platform. Whilst his mortgage remains with Platform, the servicing 
of it will remain  with Capita (or until such time, if ever, Platform chooses  to end that business  
relationship). If Mr H wants Capita to stop processing his data, then hell need  to repay his 
mortgage in full and notify Platforms Data Protection Officer of his request. Mr Hs options  
are to either accept that, or to redeem his mortgage with Platform. If Mr H feels Platform 
and/or Capita have  acted  in breach of GDPR in respect of these roles then thats a matter  for 
the Information Commissioners Office (www.ico.org.uk ).
Mr H has also said that Platform refused his Data Subject  Access Request. I understand 
Platform sent an email  to Mr H in March 2019 which said:
I am aware you have made  previous Article 15 claims which  I believe the Bank has fulfilled 
over the previous 6 months; the last request was posted to you on 24th December 2018. If 
this is a further request for your personal  data,  please confirm  this is the case  and I will get a 
costing from the various areas that process  this information and forward it to you. On receipt 
of payment of this charge  I will then ensure that the Bank re-issues  a full copy  of the 
personal information that the Bank holds for you. For your records I will be levying the 
charge under Article 12 (5(a)) and Article 15 (3) of GDPR which is confirmed in Part 2, 
Chapter 2, Section 12 of DPA. If you choose  to still seek such  a disclosure without the 
payment of a charge, I will be refusing the request under Article  12 (5(b)) of GDPR  which  is 
confirmed in Part 2, Chapter 2, section 15 (1) of DPA,  my reasoning, which  I will use in 
explanation to ICO, is that I believe  your continued  requests  to be excessive, particularly 
because of their repetitive  character.
Article 12 (5) says:
5.  Information provided under Articles 13 and 14 and any communication  and any actions  
taken under Articles 15 to 22 and 34 shall be provided free of charge. Where requests  from 
a data subject are manifestly unfounded or excessive, in particular because of their repetitive 
character, the controller may either:
(a)charge a reasonable fee taking into account the administrative costs of providing the 
information or communication or taking the action  requested; or
(b)refuse to act on the request.
The controller shall bear the burden of demonstrating the manifestly  unfounded  or excessive 
character of the request.
Article 15 (3) says:
3.  The controller  shall provide  a copy of the personal data undergoing processing.  For any 
further copies  requested  by the data subject, the controller may charge a reasonable fee 
based on administrative costs...
Ref: DRN43570393If Mr H feels Platform  has unfairly interpreted the regulations then again thats a matter for 
the ICO, as is Mr Hs complaint that Platform hasnt provided the original contract he signed, 
and the scale  of any charges.
communication
The explanation about Capitas role as a data processor leads me neatly onto Mr Hs next 
complaint point; he says that Capita employees  have  fraudulently  claimed to work for 
Platform when hes directly asked  them  that question. Hes sent in a copy of a call to support  
this point saying  the call handlers  are being deliberately  misleading  and dishonest.
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power  under our remit to comment on, or otherwise 
determine, how financial businesses  operate in general terms. We dont make  punitive  
awards, and our role isnt to fine or punish businesses. Whilst its clear  Mr H has been very 
upset by this matter, its not caused him any financial loss and rather than accept Platforms  
explanation Mr H has kept mentioning it. Any internal disciplinary matters  are between the 
employee and their employer. Its entirely inappropriate for Mr H to be demanding 
information about that and saying a person should be sacked. 
If Mr H feels there are regulatory failings then thats a matter  for the Financial  Conduct  
Authority (www.fca.org.uk) if it thinks theres something it needs to investigate.  Im satisfied 
Mr H hasnt been disadvantaged and so I dont award any compensation.
Mr H has said Platform has failed to answer  complaints, ignored all and any correspondence 
from him on any matter since January 2019  and insisted he had to phone despite me 
informing them I am unable to use a telephone as I am of highly restricted hearing
Ive not seen details of any complaints that have gone unanswered. It may be Platform isnt 
responding further on points it feels its already addressed, but I cant  see any that havent  
been addressed  at all. But if Mr H feels anything  has been overlooked then if he lets our 
investigator know theyll be able to speak to Platform.
Platform wrote  to Mr H to let him know that it would only accept communication from him in 
writing, as it was no longer willing to allow him to speak  to call handlers on the phone or 
accept emails. This was because Platform says it wasnt  happy with Mr Hs conduct, saying 
hed phoned  a staff members  mobile  repeatedly, including  in the middle  of the night, and 
hed threatened  to visit staff members at home and/or make their addresses publicly 
available. Platform has said that as a result of Mr Hs behaviour,  its solicitors  have been 
instructed to act on its behalf, and all future  contact  from Mr H will be referred to them.
Ive listened to various calls, all of which are Mr H calling Platform not the other way round, 
as Mr H hasnt provided  a contact number to the business. In all of these Im satisfied the 
call handlers remained calm and polite, trying  to assist Mr H in the face of what were 
generally difficult calls to handle. Theres nothing in those calls to indicate  Mr H was 
struggling to communicate in that manner. Once  Mr H notified Platform  of his hearing 
difficulties it asked what it could do to assist him, a point which  is now moot  in any event as 
Platform isnt willing to accept further  calls from Mr H.
restricting payment types
Ref: DRN43570394Mr H has said that Platform has restricted his payment  options  and refused to accept 
payments so it could  push  for an eviction. This came about  due to the issue  above, where 
Platform was no longer willing to speak to Mr H on the phone due to his previous behaviour.
Platforms solicitor wrote to Mr H in February 2019  to set out his payment options. The letter 
said: 
As you are aware, our client  will no longer  be accepting email or telephone correspondence  
from you. The following  payment methods allow you to pay your mortgage account, without 
direct communication with any of our clients employees:
1.Direct debit;
2.Interactive Voice Response (IVR);
3.A cheque made payable to Platform Funding Limited;
4.Cash paid direct into any branch of Natwest Bank; and
5.Standing order or electronic transfer. 
If you choose to pay by any of options 3-5 listed above, please  note that you must use your 
mortgage account number [Mr Hs mortgage  account number]  as the Payment  Reference. 
Without this reference our client will be unable to identify you or apply any payments to your 
mortgage account.
For your reference, Platforms NatWest Bank account information is as follows:
Sort code: [bank  sort code]
Account number: [bank account number]
Mr H was given five different ways  he could pay his mortgage, the only option that was 
denied to him was phoning up and speaking to a call handler for the reasons previously 
explained.
The possible  payment  options information was reinforced in a letter  in December  2019,  with 
one change. That is that cash  could  no longer  be paid in at a NatWest  branch, however 
cheques could be. 
Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) overpayment
Mr H has said that Platform has refused to return some monies  to him which were the result 
of an overpayment by the DWP.  He says it comes to over £7,000 and he is in desperate 
need of it.
As Platform explained, it cant refund any money  to Mr H directly  without authority to do so 
from the DWP. If Mr H thinks  theres  been  an overpayment, then he needs to contact the 
DWP directly  to notify them, and the DWP  can then authorise the refund. Unless  that 
happens Platform cant return  any money.
legal proceedings
The subject of Mr Hs mortgage  arrears has been before the court  on a number of 
occasions, and has gone as far as an eviction being  booked. The account went into arrears 
in April 2013, and a suspended possession order was obtained  in February  2014.  By 
July 2016 the arrears  had been cleared, but the account fell back into arrears in June 2018.
Ref: DRN43570395Its not my place to decide on these matters as theyve already been decided  in court. If the 
court felt Platform had acted inappropriately in refusing payment offers  and/or proceeding 
with legal action  that was unwarranted then it would refuse to make an order. 
I also understand that the judge in March 2019 was satisfied that various payment methods 
had been put forward (as Ive explained previously  these  were set out in a letter  from the 
solicitor in February 2019), and he gave Mr H three days  to set up a standing  order  to make 
the payments  due and return to the court  with evidence  of that. The judge said if Mr H did so 
then hed continue  to suspend the warrant so long as Mr H paid the monthly payment plus 
£50. The judge  said if Mr H didnt  return  with that evidence, then the eviction would go 
ahead. The eviction was cancelled as Mr H provided evidence  that hed set up the standing 
order.
As all these matters have already been decided  in court it would be inappropriate for me to 
interfere here, as I cant override a court  order, or replace a courts  judgement  with my own.  
If Mr H feels Platform  has rejected fair offers to clear  the arrears  to try to push for eviction 
thats also something hed need  to raise with the court as that relates to a court  order  which, 
as I said, Ive no power to interfere with.
Mr H is unhappy that the legal  costs  have been  added to his account.  As the court  orders  
are silent  on costs, the default  action is for those  costs to be added to the mortgage  debt as 
they were only incurred by Platform due to actions it had to take on Mr Hs account. If Mr H 
felt those costs shouldnt have been passed  to him, then thats something hed have needed  
to go back to court to argue,  asking that a costs award be made. But as the orders are silent  
on costs, then Platform has done nothing wrong in adding those to Mr Hs mortgage debt.
In terms of the actual  amount of the legal costs as that wasnt  raised with Platform before the 
complaint was referred to us (because the costs  hadnt been  incurred by then) we dont have 
the information Mr H would like. Id ask Platform to send Mr H a breakdown of the legal costs 
that were added to his account in early  2019;  Mr H told us in April 2019  that these were  a 
sum of about £2,300 and a sum of about  £530. 
To explain, our rules state that a business must  be given the opportunity  to investigate  and 
respond to any issues first. So if Mr H again directly  requests the breakdown from Platform  
(through the communication channels its explained  that he must use) and then either he 
doesnt receive it or if he feels the sums are incorrect, then thats something he can raise as 
a new complaint with Platform if he wants it looked into. Mr H may then be able to bring that 
as a new complaint  to this service (subject to our usual rules) if he remains unhappy with the 
outcome.
Ref: DRN43570396deduction of tax
In August  2018  Platform wrote to Mr H following a remediation exercise. It said there  was a 
misaligned date in the original mortgage  offer which meant hed been charged  £239.36  more  
interest than he should. Platform added 8% compensatory interest onto that overcharged 
amount which  came  to £217.92, and then deducted  20% tax (£43.58). This gave a total 
redress amount of £413.70  which  it sent by cheque.
Within its letter Platform provided  an explanation  of why tax had been  deducted,  and 
enclosed a Statement of Deductions of Tax.
The letter explained:
We are obliged by HM Revenue & Customs  (HMRC) to deduct  basic rate income tax from
the 8% per annum compensatory interest  payment made as part of your refund.
Dependent upon your personal tax situation,  you may be entitled to reclaim  some or all of
the tax deducted,  for example, if you are a non-taxpayer or you do not pay tax on your
savings income. However,  if you pay income tax at the higher  or additional rate you may
have an additional  tax liability and you may need to notify HMRC of any interest  you receive.
If you want help on any tax matters  you can visit the HMRC website at
www.gov.uk/government/organisations/hm-revenue-customs or you can ring HMRC on 0300 
200 3300.
The Statement of Deduction of Tax provided  the account number, year it related to, Mr Hs 
name, and the details  of the interest paid and tax deducted. It went on to say:
It will be accepted by the HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) as evidence  of tax deducted  if
you are entitled to make a claim for repayment  of tax. And
Dependent upon your personal tax situation,  you may be entitled to reclaim some  or all of
the tax deducted,  for example, if you are a non-taxpayer, or you do not pay tax on your
savings income.
Mr H has raised  two issues  here;  first he says that the deduction  of tax is illegal, and second 
he says hes contacted HMRC and they say Platform  hasnt paid the tax.
I think Mr H may be confusing this with the Personal Savings Allowance which came into 
force in 2016.  That allows a certain  level of interest to be earned on savings  before  tax is 
deducted. But this wasnt interest earned on a savings account that Mr H held,  so it is 
potentially subject to income tax. Under  HMRC rules  Platform  has to deduct tax before the 
money is paid out, and non-tax payers can reclaim the tax amount directly from HMRC. So 
Platform did nothing wrong in deducting  the tax. Further details about this can be found at
https://www.gov.uk/hmrc-internal-manuals/savings-and-investment-manual/saim2075
Ref: DRN43570397With the second point I can only assume  theres  been a misunderstanding when Mr H 
contacted HMRC as Platform  pays the tax by quarterly return. Evidence of this wont be 
provided to Mr H, because its not something  he needs to see; its a matter between  HMRC  
and Platform. If Platform hasnt paid the tax as Mr H has claimed, then HMRC will take that 
up with Platform itself.  All Mr H needs to do to claim that tax back  is follow  the same process 
that many  people do day-in-day-out when they receive similar payments. That is to contact 
HMRC and provide  a copy  of the certificate  to them. It may be this is something  citizens 
advice can help him with if Mr H wants any further  information,  and their details can be found 
at www.citizensadvice.org.uk..
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. Ive 
confined myself to those  matters that I consider have a material  effect on the outcome. I can 
see how strongly Mr H feels. But Im impartial and I have to look at things objectively, taking 
a step back and focussing on the broader  picture. Thats what  Ive done  here,  and having  
done so I dont uphold this complaint, and so I make no order  or award.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr H to accept  or reject  my decision before  24 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4357039