K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that Bank of Scotland plc applied excessive charges to her arranged 
overdraft over many years.
background
Ms S says shes had health problems for over ten years. Her medication was reviewed  last 
year and her health has improved significantly.  She realised shed been ignoring her 
financial position over those years. And she realised  she was being charged  large  amounts 
every month for her arranged overdraft. She wants Bank of Scotland to refund the charges 
from the last six years.
Bank of Scotland refunded £100  of charges  as a gesture of goodwill and froze  its charges  for 
three months. It said that as Ms S wasnt in arrears  her account wouldnt go to its collections 
department. But it suggested she contact its Money Management colleagues. And it also 
gave her a list of independent  organisations which it thought could help her.
Our investigator explained that after a Supreme Court ruling in November 2009  current 
account charges  couldnt be challenged on the basis they were unfair or too high.  But a bank 
has to charge them in line with its terms and conditions. And he thought Bank of Scotland  
had done that.
Ms S was very disappointed with his findings. She said the level of interest  didnt reflect the 
level of borrowing.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons. And theres not much I can add.
As our investigator explained we cant comment on the level or fairness of the charges. So 
we cant comment on the relationship between  the interest charges and the level of 
borrowing. We can only make sure Bank  of Scotland  has applied its charges in line with its 
terms and conditions. And I cant see its made any mistake  in the way its done this.
Ms S said that nobody  at the bank contacted  her to help her. But I cant see Bank of 
Scotland wouldve realised Ms S was struggling financially. Now shes  contacted  it to say 
she has financial difficulties its refunded £100 as a goodwill gesture. It froze  all charges for 
three months and it suggested various ways  for Ms S to get help with managing  her debt.  I 
cant fairly ask it to do more. 
I can understand how upsetting my decision will be for Ms S particularly as this must be a 
difficult time for her. But for the reasons Ive given  Im not going to uphold  her complaint. 
Ref: DRN40425942my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4042594