K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains about a cosmetic treatment package that was financed through  a fixed sum 
loan agreement with etika Finance  UK Limited (trading as PayBreak  Limited).
background
In August  2018,  Mrs K entered into a contract  with a supplier, who I will call S. The contract 
stated that Mrs K would  be provided with the following: 
A VIP package of 12 face or body treatments
3 diagnostics 
A facial kit (9 products)
The total cost of the package came to £2,800 which was to be paid with a fixed  sum loan 
agreement with etika. 
Mrs K said that she was told eight of the 12 treatments would be for laser  to help treat her 
acne, scarring and hyperpigmentation on her face.  She says she found it difficult  to get 
sessions for the laser  treatment, and only received seven facials,  before finding out that S 
had ceased trading. Mrs K was then told by etika that it was looking to source an alternative  
supplier to complete  her treatment package. 
Mrs K was unhappy with this, so she raised  a complaint with etika. She said S had been 
trading fraudulently, she hadnt received the service  shed  signed up for and now her skin 
condition had become worse.  So, she didnt  want an alternative supplier and instead wanted 
the agreement  to be cancelled.
Etika reviewed Mrs Ks complaint and said as she had received  seven  treatments, and the 
facial kit, it wouldnt be giving her a full refund. In terms  of sourcing an alternative  provider, 
as Mrs K had refused  this option, etika said it would  credit her account  with £250 to cover 
the costs of the unredeemed treatments.  It also offered an additional £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill for any inconvenience caused.
Mrs K explained she had refused the alternative provider, as they didnt provide laser 
treatment, which was why she signed up with S in the first place. She also said she had 
already paid £467 to etika  and was unsure how it had valued or priced the treatment cost at 
£250 for the unredeemed treatments.
Following Mrs Ks comments, etika made two more offers to settle her complaint. Ultimately  
etika offered to credit Mrs Ks loan account with £1,400 for the parts of the package she 
hadnt been able to redeem. They calculated this by attributing an equal  cost of £175  to each 
element of the package which they worked  out to be 16 elements in total (12 treatments, 
three diagnostics and one facial kit) with an overall cost of £2,800.  
As Mrs K had redeemed  eight of these elements (seven treatments and the facial  kit), this 
left a total of £1,400 to be refunded to her. Mrs Ks current balance  was £2,333.32, and 
taking into account  the £1,400 credit, etika said this left Mrs K with £933.32  for which she 
was liable for. 
Mrs K didnt accept etikas response  and referred her complaint to us. She explained the 
facial kit, which comprised of nine creams, was given for free by S when she signed up with 
Ref: DRN46943002them. She also felt etika  hadnt addressed her concerns that she was mis-sold this 
agreement under misrepresentation. She explained she was led to believe that she was 
signing up with another company, which was relevant,  as the free products she had received 
were also from the same  company whom she thought  she would be receiving her treatments  
from. 
When our investigator reviewed Mrs Ks complaint,  they upheld it. They were persuaded by 
Mrs Ks testimony about the laser treatment  enticing her into the contract  and considered a 
breach of contract had occurred. They didnt think the option for an alternative provider had 
been offered in a reasonable time, and without significant inconvenience  to Mrs K. So, the 
investigator said Mrs K should be entitled  to a price  reduction of the value of the goods and 
services that shouldve been provided by S. 
The investigator said S had contracted to provide  Mrs K with 16 elements, namely 12 
treatments, three diagnostics and a facial  kit. They  accepted that some elements had been 
provided for free, but because they still made up part of Mrs Ks overall contract, the 
investigator said it should still be included.
The investigator attributed an equal cost, of £175, to all 16 elements of the contract. They 
said Mrs K had received  eight elements  of the contract, which were 7 standard  facial 
treatments and the facial kit. However,  of the 12 treatments, the investigator established 
eight shouldve been for laser treatment and Mrs K shouldve only received four standard  
facials throughout her contract. The other three they considered were given to Mrs K as a 
complimentary gesture whilst she waited to have laser treatment. 
The investigator agreed that whilst  Mrs K did receive the benefit of the additional three extra 
facials, she didnt think its fair they be included as elements of this contract. This meant  Mrs 
K would be liable for £875 overall  under  her loan agreement and the investigator 
recommended that etika treat this as such. 
Etika disagreed with the investigators findings. It said it didnt dispute that the laser 
treatments may not have  been available to Mrs K on certain appointments, but with retailer  
S, it was aware that in these circumstances it was standard practice to ask the consumer if 
they wished to have an alternative  treatment instead. Etika  also explained that as the VIP 
package was not a fixed plan, it could  be altered  as and when the customer or therapist saw 
fit. So, whilst  it accepted  that Mrs K initially agreed  that eight of the treatments were  to be 
laser, there was nothing  to show that this did not change when the laser machine  was 
unavailable, or that the redeemed treatments were  complimentary. As etika didnt accept the 
investigators findings, Mrs Ks complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, I reach  my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  what I consider is most likely to have happened  in 
light, of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mrs K relies  on the rights she has under  Section 75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974. 
I thought it was important  to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a 
financial services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  
Ref: DRN46943003have under Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Ks complaint, I 
have to take account of relevant law, amongst other  things. Section 75 is relevant law. 
Therefore, Ive taken  it into account. But that doesnt  mean  Im obliged  to reach the same  
outcome as, for example,  a court might reach if Mrs K pursued  a claim for misrepresentation 
or breach of contract. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mrs K has a claim for misrepresentation or breach 
of contract  against the supplier, she can also bring  that claim against the finance provider 
(etika here).  That being said, if I thought  the contract had been misrepresented, or breached 
by the supplier, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask etika to take responsibility  for putting 
this right.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and; 
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I am satisfied there is no break in the debtor-creditor-supplier chain and the remaining issue 
for me to consider  is whether there was a clear  breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Was the contract misrepresented?
Mrs K explained why she considers that the contract  was misrepresented  to her. In this 
context a misrepresentation means a false statement of fact that led to her making  the 
contract with the supplier.
Mrs K has suggested that she thought the licensor  of the facial kit, which she received when 
she signed up with S, would  be the company that would be providing her treatment. She said 
that had she known the company was in fact S, she wouldnt have gone ahead with the 
contract. 
I accept that by implication, the supplier was representing itself as being  an authorised 
licensee. However, from the information I have seen there  isnt persuasive evidence that the 
products sold by the supplier were of lesser  quality than represented. Instead it appears  that 
there might have been some kind of licensing issue between the two parties, and Im not 
persuaded that had Mrs K known about  the nature of the relationship, between the supplier 
and licensor, it would have made her refuse to contract with S. And in any event, even if I 
was satisfied that there had been a misrepresentation, as Mrs K has had the benefit  of some 
treatments and products,  I would  need to fairly reflect this when considering redress.
 
Ive also seen that the invoice provided  to Mrs K did refer to company S by its name, but I 
cant see that she tried to query or question this at the time, or during the course of her 
treatment. She hasnt explained  why it was so important to her to have the licensor instead 
of S carry out the treatments, and so overall, Im not persuaded by what  Mrs K says about  
misrepresentation and I dont  agree  that it is fair and reasonable to ask etika  to cancel the 
loan on this basis.
Is Mrs K entitled to a refund for the breach of contract as she requested? 
There seems  to be agreement between Mrs K and etika  that there has been a breach of 
contract. What there seems to be a disagreement  about is what  to do to put things right. 
Ref: DRN46943004I can see etika had originally sought  to source  a replacement supplier for S, so that the 
contract could be completed  in full. I refer to Section 54 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
which states that a consumer  has the right to require repeat performance or the right to a 
price reduction where the services provided  doesnt conform  to the contract. I have also 
considered Section 56 of the CRA which covers when someone is entitled  to a price  
reduction, this could  be if a trader has failed to provide repeat performance in a reasonable 
time and without significant inconvenience  or where  such as performance  of the original 
contract was impossible
I am not persuaded that the replacement supplier  would  have  been  able to complete the 
contract in such as a way as to fulfil how S was supposed to perform it. I consider that the 
nature of facial and body  treatments is such that these differ  from one supplier to another  
and that suppliers are likely to use different techniques and products. I also think that the 
assessment of the suitability of any replacement treatment is complicated by the contract  not 
being particularly  specific about what the received  products  and treatments would be. 
Ive also noted  that it had taken considerable time for etika to source the alternative  supplier  
and that Mrs K had entered into the contract  with S on the reasonable understanding  that 
this was a treatment package where such large  gaps between  treatments would likely  lessen  
the benefits of those  treatments as an overall  package.
Mrs K also mentioned that since the initial treatment was stopped  by S, she was seen by a 
private dermatologist,  who prescribed her medication and advised her to stop all facial 
treatments and creams  for at least a year. So, taking everything into account,  I consider a 
price reduction to be the fairest  and most  appropriate remedy  for Mrs K for the breach of 
contract.
What should the price  reduction be? 
Having looked  at the contract, S had agreed  to provide Mrs K with 16 different elements. 
These were  12 treatments, three diagnostics and a facial kit. 
Mrs K explained that she didnt consider  that each of the elements would have  an equal 
cost. In particular, she mentioned that the pack of creams provided  to her were  given for free 
when she signed  up with S.
My starting point is that it isnt obvious from the contract, if some  elements have more value 
than others, particularly as we have seen other contracts between  S and consumers which  
attribute the same  elements  as shown in Mrs Ks contract,  at differing prices and with 
discounts. So, this has made working out how much  each element has as a monetary value 
a challenge. 
It also isnt clear if anything was marketed as a free element of the contract, so there isnt 
anything in this case here to show  the creams were  provided for free. Its also arguable that 
even if something was described  as a free gift, this would likely  be based on Mrs K 
agreeing and paying a total price  for all the services  in the contract. Where some money is 
due to be refunded  because  of a partial fulfilment of a contract, it wouldnt necessarily  be fair 
to say receipt and use of those items  has no monetary value. 
And so, when considering the price  reduction, whilst there isnt a scientific formula to do this, 
and due to the difficulties,  Ive already described  above, I consider the fairest  way to 
Ref: DRN46943005calculate the price  reduction is by attributing an equal cost to all the elements of the contract. 
I calculated £175  to be the cost for each  element  of the contract. 
The contract was for 16 elements, which was made up of 12 treatments, three diagnostics 
and a facial kit. Mrs K explained  that of the 12 treatments  she was supposed to receive,  she 
was told eight of those would be for laser and the other four would be for standard  facials.  
Specifically, she has said she went with this package because it included  laser, as she 
suffered from acne, scarring, and hyperpigmentation which she was told the laser would help 
treat. 
Both parties  agree that in total Mrs K received seven treatments and the facial kit. All seven 
treatments were for facials and didnt  include laser. Mrs K explained that whenever  she had 
an appointment for laser, the laser wasnt made  available to her for different reasons, but 
that there  was nothing  to indicate that the additional three facials  provided  to her were  a 
replacement for the laser.  
Whilst I havent seen  any documents or notes  to say the additional  three facials provided to 
Mrs K were  given for free, I also havent  seen any evidence to say they were in replacement 
of the laser.  So, I will make a determination based  on what  I think  is most likely to have 
happened.
Mrs K explained to our service that when she was provided with the additional facials,  she 
was told she would  still get her laser  treatments and these facials  were just a way of helping 
her skin before the laser  treatment began.  
From reviewing the full file and listening to the calls between Mrs K and our service, I have 
found her to be credible  in what she has told our service. And whilst I accept that Mrs K 
shouldve only been provided with four facials and eight laser treatments, as part of her 
contract, I dont consider it to be reasonable to make Mrs K pay for receiving three  facials 
which she hadnt requested, and which didnt  form part of her original contract.
I am also not persuaded that these additional three facials were provided  as a replacement  
for laser. Had they been provided  as a replacement, this wouldve only left Mrs K with five 
sessions of laser, and Mrs K from the outset said she was told her package  would  include at 
least eight laser sessions  for her acne, which implied that eight sessions were required to 
treat the acne  and scarring on her face. And so, I dont think she reasonably wouldve 
accepted the facials  as a replacement for laser, as from the beginning she thought she 
would need at least eight sessions to treat her skin issues.
Taking everything into account,  I consider  Mrs K to have received only five elements of the 
contract (four facials and the facial kit) and consider 11 elements remaining.
As Mrs K was contracted to pay a total of £2,800  to S, I have calculated  the price  reduction 
to be £1,925. The contract  was for 16 elements in total, and as she didnt receive  11 parts  of 
the contract, her total liability  under the supply contract is £875. 
To put things right, etika should reduce the balance owed under the finance agreement  so 
that Mrs K is only liable for a total of £875. Mrs K said to both etika and our service, that she 
repaid £467 of the loan but I havent  seen  any evidence to confirm this. If it is found that she 
has repaid £467,  then this should  also be taken off the £875  that she owes  etika. 
Ref: DRN46943006If when reviewing how much Mrs K has repaid, (including any deposit she paid)  results  in a 
credit balance, then the overpayment  should be refunded to her, plus 8% simple yearly  
interest.
The agreement should also be ended, and I think its fair and reasonable that etika should 
ask the credit reference agencies to remove any adverse information it asked the credit  
reference agencies  to register about the loan for £2,800 after the point  at which  S ceased  
trading. But Mrs K does  owe etika £875  and nothing I have said here prevents etika from 
pursuing her for this or noting this with the credit reference agencies.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct etika Finance UK Limited  to do the 
following: 
Recalculate Mrs Ks liability to them under  the loan agreement  by ensuring that she is 
only liable to pay a total of £875, taking into account  any money she has already 
repaid back; 
In the event this leaves a zero balance, etika Finance UK Limited should end the 
finance agreement; 
If Mrs K has already repaid more than £875 (including any deposit she paid),  and the 
price reduction results in a credit balance, then the overpayment should  be refunded 
to her, plus 8% simple yearly interest. Interest is to be applied from when any 
overpayment was made until the date of settlement. The finance agreement should  
be ended  as well; 
Remove any adverse  information they have  recorded on Mrs Ks credit file, after S 
ceased trading.  
*If etika  Finance UK Limited  considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
deduct income tax from any interest  that is to be awarded, it should  tell Mrs K how much  its 
taken off. It should also give Mrs K a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2021.
Farhana Akhtar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4694300