K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that National  Savings and Investments (NS&I) is unable  to locate a bond  
opened for him in 1992.
background
A bond was opened for Mr C in 1992 and in 2018  he wanted to cash it. NS&I  couldnt locate 
the bond, and said its records suggested  it had been cancelled on the same day it was 
opened.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. From the evidence 
provided, he didnt  think NS&I held a bond for Mr C so he wasnt persuaded that 
compensation was appropriate.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint  has been passed  to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr C has a bond certificate which suggests  there  was interest paid on the account during  the 
first five years. So I can see why he might consider the bond  account must have been 
opened by NS&I.
But NS&I  has explained that the amounts  shown  on the bond are the expected amounts of 
interest over the five year term. NS&I has also provided a copy of its records showing the 
bond was cancelled on the same  day it was opened,  and removed from NS&Is systems  in 
1994.
NS&I has also done a search  against Mr Cs name,  and this hasnt  revealed  any investments 
held in his name.
When I take all of these  points into account,  on balance I think  its unlikely that NS&I  holds a 
bond account in Mr Cs name. So there are no reasonable grounds  on which I can uphold Mr 
Cs complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
Ref: DRN44382262ombudsman
Ref: DRN4438226