K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how Chase de Vere Independent Financial  Advisers  Limited managed  
fund switches within his pension.
background
In 2018, Mr W received advice from Chase  regarding his self-invested personal pension. 
The pension itself is with another provider, who I will refer to as Provider A. Chase advised 
Mr W to switch his existing  three  investment funds to 12 other  funds. Mr W agreed to this.
Mr Ws portfolio  fell in value during the switch.  Mr W is unhappy because  he wanted to 
safeguard his portfolios value ahead of the switch, and he thought this had been agreed  
with Chase. However, Provider  A operated a T+2 policy meaning theres  a two day gap 
between a customer giving an instruction  to switch and that instruction being executed. In 
that time,  fund values  could fall meaning the amount switched would be reduced   which  is 
what happened in Mr Ws case. Chase agreed  that it should have told Mr W about this at the 
time of the switch  (although it said it had been explained in Provider As terms and 
conditions which had previously been sent to Mr W). Chase agreed to compensate  Mr W for 
what it thinks he lost out on  which it says is £196.  It rounded  this figure  up to £250 to 
reflect the inconvenience caused to Mr W. 
Mr W remained unhappy. He says he lost £2,723,  so he referred his complaint to us. Our 
investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr W maintains his position,  the matter  has 
come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision is to not 
uphold Mr Ws complaint.
I think its useful here to quote  the email chain  between Mr W and Chase because  it 
illustrates what Mr W wanted  to happen and what actually did happen:
I can see the [Provider A] pension fund this morning stands at £635,462.
Therefore please  accept  this email as my instruction to switch this value into the mix of funds 
as per your illustration. [13 June email from Mr W to Chase]
I see the [Provider A] pension fund this morning stands at £636,626.
I did not receive confirmation that the switch of funds discussed  yesterday was made.
Therefore please  confirm  by return that the switch will be made  today based  on the latest 
value of £636,626. [14 June email  from Mr W to Chase]
This is currently in the process of being actioned. If there is anything  further  that we need, I 
will let you know.  I will also confirm when the process has been completed. [14 June email 
from Chase to Mr W]
I have had confirmation  that the switch  has now been processed. [14 June email from 
Chase to Mr W]
Ref: DRN48449612I am concerned that the [Provider A] app still shows the 3 original funds as of today and a 
reduced value  of £631,030.
Please confirm exactly what value has been switched. [15 June  email  from Mr W to Chase]
I can confirm that the switch was effected by us on 14 June at 4pm. [Provider  A] are now 
processing the switch,  and this should be completed  tomorrow. [17 June email from Chase 
to Mr W]
I have seen that the funds switch is now showing on the [Provider A] App.
The value this morning  is £632,625.
Please confirm the value of the original 3 funds that was converted  as it looks like value has 
been lost. [19 June email from Mr W to Chase]
The value of the fund on the day we placed the switch was £636,626. 
The standard terms of business of [Provider  A] confirm that they normally wait until the 
second or third business day after instructions have been received before  making the switch. 
The prices  used are at the point of switch rather than at the point of instruction and this is 
what has happened on this case. [19 June email from Chase to Mr W]
In short,  Mr W gave his instruction to switch  on 14 June. The funds were switched on 18 
June, meaning it took two working days (taking into account the weekend on 16 and 17 
June). The total portfolio value at the time of the switch was £633,903, rather  than the 
£636,626 Mr W was expecting.
First of all, its worth  saying that the two day switching time reflects the fact that it takes a 
certain amount  of time for a transfer  to be processed. It also reflects  the fact that Provider A 
prices its funds once a day, meaning  the quoted  price of a unit at the time a switch 
instruction is made may not reflect  the fair value of that unit given the constantly-changing 
value of the funds underlying securities. Adding  in a two delay  buffer to switches  gives  
Provider A enough  time to process the transfer.  And it means that the switch  occurs at the 
same time as the fund units are priced, ensuring  the buying and selling of units  is at a price 
that reflects the underlying value of the funds in question. None  of this seems unreasonable  
to me. Given this, Mr W could never  have guaranteed the price  his existing units  were  
switched at because  Provider As terms and conditions meant there  would always, 
reasonably, have been a two day gap between giving an instruction and the instruction  being  
executed. 
Furthermore, there wouldnt be a direct  financial loss resulting from this approach  because  
the amount that is switched is only ever the amount that the portfolio is worth.  It might be 
different to what the customer is expecting when they give the instruction  to switch. But if the 
fund falls in value during the T+2 period then it would have fallen if they hadnt decided  to 
switch too. The financial position of the customer remains the same.  By way of illustration, if 
Mr W hadnt switched, his portfolio would still have  fallen  in value in the period under review 
to £633,903  the figure Mr W has complained about. 
That said,  I appreciate  Mr W did think his £636,626 was safeguarded, and Chase has 
admitted that it could  have done better in explaining  things  to Mr W. So I think  it fair that 
some compensation should be paid. 
Mr W says his compensation should be £2,723.  This is the difference between the figure he 
wanted to switch (£636,626) and the figure that was actually switched (£633,903). Chase 
says the figure should be £196 (or £250 once inconvenience is factored in). It worked  this 
Ref: DRN48449613out by using Mr Ws starting fund value  (£636,626)  and allocating  this to the 12 new funds 
Mr W wanted to invest  in based on 14 June fund prices. It then rolled forward the 
performance of these funds to 18 June (the date the actual switch  was completed) to work 
out a notional fund value  for what would have happened if Provider A didnt work on a T+2 
basis. Chase says this notional fund value is £634,099,  which is £196 higher than the actual 
amount that was switched (£633,903). 
Im satisfied with Chases approach. It has assumed Mr W sold his existing three funds on 
the same  day as he made the switch instruction (14 June) meaning  the amount available  to 
switch would have  been £636,626  which is what Mr W has argued for. Chase has then 
used the £636,626 to purchase units in Mr Ws new funds on the same day. This is, 
essentially, what Mr W wanted  to happen   to use his £636,626 to invest in his new funds 
without delay. Chase  then applied the investment  returns for those funds for the following 
two days. This is also reasonable  its assuming  Mr W was invested in his new funds 
straightaway after all. These funds,  in aggregate, then fell in value meaning they would  have 
been valued at £634,099 on 18 June. But if Mr W wanted to be invested without the T+2 
delay then its only fair that hes exposed to the performance of his new funds without  delay 
too. It just so happens that investing without delay in the new funds would  still have been  to 
Mr Ws advantage because the new funds performed better than his original funds in this two 
day period, which is why theres a £196 difference between Chases notional portfolio value 
and the amount that was actually switched.
So Chase has reworked  the switch so that it happened instantaneously  in the way Mr W 
wanted (even though this would never have been  possible)  and it has offered to refund Mr W 
the amount he would have gained by doing it this way. It has also offered to pay Mr W a 
further £54 for the inconvenience it caused. In the circumstances, I think  Chases  approach 
is fair and reasonable.  
Mr Ws approach  is to have the best of both worlds.  He has assumed he would have  sold 
units in his three existing  funds immediately after making the instruction to do so. But he has 
also assumed that that there  would  have then been  a two day gap before his funds were 
reinvested, meaning he would have missed out on market falls for those two days leaving 
him with the full £636,626  to invest on 18 June. I hope Mr W appreciates why this is an 
inconsistent approach to take. 
Mr W says he would have delayed his transfer  (perhaps indefinitely) if he had known about  
Provider As timescales to ensure his fund was of a sufficiently large value. But I havent  
seen anything that suggests  Mr W tried, or wanted,  to reverse the transfer and start again at 
some other point with a higher starting  value. Mr W has, instead,  asked  for £2,723  to put 
things right. So Ive looked at Mr Ws complaint  with this in mind.  That is, I havent  thought  it 
appropriate to ask Chase to unwind everything for Mr W but have, instead, taken the switch 
as a given and looked at what  the appropriate amount of compensation should be.     
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint because I think the approach  Chase has 
proposed is fair and reasonable.  Therefore, if it hasnt  already done so, Chase should pay 
Mr W the £250 it has offered him. 
Ref: DRN48449614my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. If it hasnt  already  done so, 
Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited should pay Mr W £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4844961