K820x#14Complaint
Mr K says Lloyds Bank Plc unfairly  closed his bank account and wont  return money to him 
which was paid into his account. He wants Lloyds  to release his funds.
Background
Mr K had a current account with Lloyds.
In February 2018,  a payment of just over £90,000  was paid into Mr Ks account. Lloyds 
reviewed Mr Ks account and asked  him to provide information about the payment. And proof 
of his entitlement to the money
Mr K initially  told Lloyds  that the money was a gift. He later told them that the money was 
meant to be paid into a business account and was a tax rebate. But it had mistakenly been 
paid into his personal account  by a company based  overseas.  He provided Lloyds with 
paperwork which he says shows he is entitled to the money. Lloyds  said Mr K hasnt 
provided enough information  and contacted  the sending bank. It told Lloyds it intended to 
recall the money.
In May 2018, Lloyds  decided to close Mr Ks account. And it gave him two months notice to 
make alternative banking arrangements. 
An investigator looked into Mr Ks case. He said Lloyds acted in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when it asked Mr K for more  information about  the payment.  And it 
closed his account in line with the terms and conditions. Mr K disagreed.  He said hes out of 
pocket and wants his money. 
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Lloyds is required to have  measures in place to review payments to comply  with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. As part of its review process Lloyds are entitled  to ask a customer  for 
more information.  And its not for this service to interfere with the banks processes. Our role 
is to see if the bank has made any mistakes and then put the customer back  in the position 
theyd have been in if the mistake hadnt  happened.
Lloyds asked Mr K to provide information  about  his entitlement  to the money which was paid 
into his account  in February 2018.  Mr K gave  Lloyds a copy of an international VAT 
declaration which he said is enough to show the money paid into his account belongs  to him. 
Lloyds said it wasnt sufficient. And having seen  a copy  of the paperwork, Mr K provided, I 
agree. I say this because  it doesnt  show the payment was intended for Mr K. It shows the 
payment was intended for a company. And I havent seen any evidence  that Mr K is involved 
or in any way connected to the company shown on the paperwork. 
Ive also kept in mind  that Mr K gave Lloyds  two different explanations about  why he was 
entitled to the money. Initially he told Lloyds it was a gift. He later said the money  had been 
Ref: DRN48812142paid into his account in error. And it was intended  for a business account.  I also note that the 
sending bank has asked  Lloyds to return the money to them. So, when I weigh everything 
up, I can understand why Lloyds had concerns. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds were acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations 
when reviewing Mr Ks account and asking him questions about the payment. So, I dont 
think its done anything  wrong. And so far, Mr K hasnt been able to show that he is entitled 
to the money  which was paid into his account.  So, Im not going to ask Lloyds to return the 
money to him. 
I understand Mr K is upset that Lloyds has closed  his account. And that this has caused him 
a good deal of inconvenience. Whilst I appreciate  the impact this had for Mr K, a bank is 
entitled to close  an account with a customer just as a customer may close an account with a 
bank. But before a bank  closes  an account, it must do so in a way which complies  with the 
terms and conditions of the account.
Under the terms and conditions  Lloyds could close Mr Ks account by giving him 60 days  
notice.  Ive also seen  a copy of a letter Lloyds  sent to Mr K dated 23 May 2018, which  
informed him it would be closing his accounts on 30 July 2018   within 60 days.  So, Im 
satisfied that Lloyds has complied with the terms and conditions of the account.   
In summary,  having looked at the circumstances of this case, I cant say Lloyds has treated 
Mr K unfairly when it blocked  and closed his account.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4881214