K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  The complaint is brought  on his behalf  by a claims management company.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1999. The policy  was taken out 
during a meeting when Mr H was applying for a mortgage. The policy provided him with 
cover for accident, sickness  and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr H didnt agree 
saying, in summary, that:
He doesnt remember being told that the policy was optional. He was simply given all 
the paperwork to sign, without  any discussion or explanation.
He was young, the policy details werent  clearly explained, and he didnt understand 
what he was signing for.
He was pressured  into signing all the paperwork in a hurry.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint for the following reasons:
Mr H says he doesnt think  he was told the PPI was optional.  I cant  be sure exactly  what 
was discussed  during  the meeting, so Ive considered the paperwork that was completed at 
the time.  There was a separate  application  form for the PPI and the first question  was, Do 
you want to arrange  cover?  There were equally clear options  to accept or decline the PPI. 
The Yes box has been ticked, showing that Mr H confirmed he wanted it. The application 
form was completed and signed and Mr H signed  a direct debit mandate, separate from the 
mortgage direct debit mandate. So, after careful  consideration, I think it more  likely than not 
that HSBC made Mr H aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. Im not 
surprised Mr H cant remember this, given it took place so long ago.
Ive considered carefully Mr Hs recollection  that the paperwork was all signed in a rush.  But 
this doesnt change my conclusion.  As Ive said, I think it was reasonably clear from the 
paperwork that he didnt  have to have the PPI for his mortgage application to be successful 
and theres not enough evidence for me to conclude that Mr H was pressured  into taking it.
The bank advised Mr H to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable  for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time.  I say this because:
Ref: DRN41144572Mr H was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances  and the terms and conditions.
Mr H told us he wouldve only received  statutory  sick pay if he couldnt work  due to 
sickness or an accident. The mortgage was a significant long term financial commitment  
and Mr Hs home  was at risk if he didnt  keep up with the repayments. The PPI would 
have paid out for up to 12 months  in the event of a successful claim for accident or 
sickness and would also have  covered  him if hed become unemployed. So I think  the 
PPI couldve been  a useful benefit.
Ive taken into account that Mr H told us he couldve asked his family for help to meet  his 
mortgage repayments. But as this wasnt a guaranteed source of income, this doesnt 
change my conclusion.  Hes also mentioned the life and critical illness  cover  he was 
entitled to through his employer. But this cover  wasnt the same as the PPI policy.
Mr H wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main benefits  such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he couldve  benefitted from the full extent of the cover  I think  it unlikely he needed  better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
The PPI was free for the first six months and then cost £35.64 each  month. I cant see 
that the cost was clearly  communicated to Mr H before he agreed to purchase it. For this 
reason I have considered whether clearer information about  the cost would have 
affected Mr Hs decision to purchase the policy.  Hed chosen  to take out the policy, 
knowing he would have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely he would have made a different decision if 
better information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think HSBCs recommendation was 
unsuitable and I dont think Mr H would have made a different decision about taking out the 
policy if better information had been  provided to him  overall, I think he would  still have 
taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4114457