K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  Mrs D says 
Santander UK Plc mis-sold the PPI to her and the late Mr D. 
background
Mr and Mrs D took a mortgage with Santander  in 1989. In 1998 they moved  home and took 
another mortgage with Santander.
At some point between  1989 and 1993 they were sold a PPI policy. The policy  covered Mr D 
only. The policy  cost around £24 per month and covered Mr D against not being able to work 
due to an accident, sickness or unemployment.  In the event  of a successful claim the policy  
would have paid a monthly benefit of around  £400 per month. The benefit  could have  been  
paid for up to 36 months for an accident or sickness claim and for up to 12 months for an 
unemployment claim.
The policy was cancelled in 2002.
In 2019 Mrs D complained to Santander that the policy was mis-sold.  Santander  could not 
find any record of the policy, so Mrs D asked this service to step in. Later, the policy  insurer 
was able to find records of the policy. These show premiums being paid from February 1993.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion. So, the complaints  been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive firstly  thought about the date of sale. It is possible  the policy was taken out at the same 
time as the original  mortgage in 1989 and the insurer simply doesnt hold records going back  
that far. But it is equally possible the policy was taken out in 1993. That is because PPI 
policies were often  sold after the mortgage had begun and not always  just at the point the 
mortgage was taken. When deciding this case Ive looked at both dates and in my view it 
doesnt make a difference to the outcome of the complaint whether the policy  was sold in 
1989 or 1993.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Santander hasnt  got copies of the original application for the first mortgage in 1989  or the 
application form for the PPI policy. This isnt unusual and its understandable in view of the 
time that has gone by since the sale took place. But where there  is limited  information, I will 
make my decision  based on whats more likely to have happened,  taking into account the 
evidence available, what both parties have told me and what  we know about these types of 
sale.
Ref: DRN45044702Mrs D says Santander pressured her and Mr D into taking out the policy.  They were told it 
would be beneficial to them and if they didnt take it, they could face problems in the future.
Ive no doubt the Santander adviser  told Mr and Mrs D they should take the policy. Mr and 
Mrs D were after all taking on a large financial commitment. But that isnt the same as the 
adviser telling  them  they had to take it.
Santander has shown  us a copy of the 1998 mortgage application. This form has a section 
about Paymentcare which was the name of Santanders PPI. I can see it asks the question,  
Do you want to take out Paymentcare? beside  this question  are two boxes, one marked 
Yes and the other No. The Yes box has been  marked with a tick and the No box has 
been left blank. Underneath this section the following has been written, Applicants wish to 
maintain existing cover.  So I can see that in 1998  the PPI was presented  as optional and   
Mr and Mrs D chose to continue with the PPI.
And Mr and Mrs D continued to pay premiums for the PPI until 2002.
All this makes me think that Mr and Mrs D were most likely made aware the PPI was 
optional. And I think they chose to take the PPI knowing they didnt have to  although  I can 
understand why Mrs D cant remember this after so many years.
Santander would have recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, so it had to check  that the 
PPI was right for them  and based  on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time, I 
think that it was. I say this for the following  reasons:
The policy was set up to cover Mr D. Whether  the policy was sold in 1989 or 1993  Mr D was 
eligible for the policy. And he was not affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the 
PPI cover,  for instance Mrs D has told us he didnt have any existing medical conditions that 
would not have been covered. So, Mr D would have been able to make  a claim if hed 
needed to.
The 1998  mortgage application shows Mr D was working as in the public sector  and had 
been since 1983. It shows details of his employer and salary. Mr and Mrs Ds representative 
has said this is wrong  and he was working  for a private company up to 1993. 
I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint. If Mr D was working in 
the public  sector when the PPI was sold hed probably have enjoyed  a good level of sick pay 
if he couldnt work. Most likely up to six months full pay followed by six months at half pay. If 
hed been employed by a private company his sick pay entitlement would be much less. But 
in any event, this particular PPI policy would pay a benefit for up to 36 months  if Mr D 
couldnt work due to an accident or sickness and thats much longer than any employers sick 
pay would  last. So I think Mr D could have  benefitted from the PPI, particularly if he was 
unable to work for a lengthy period of time.   
And the PPI could  have paid a monthly  benefit for up to 12 months if Mr D had lost his job, 
meaning he could  use any redundancy pay or savings for other living costs.
As well as making sure the policy was right for Mr and Mrs D, Santander had to give them  
clear information about it.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But thats not enough  to uphold this complaint. I next need  to decide 
Ref: DRN45044703whether or not they would have changed  their mind about buying  the policy if they had been  
given better  or clearer information. I cant say they would have done. 
I think Mr and Mrs D chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So, I dont think any better information about  the PPI would have put them 
off taking out the cover. 
In summary,  I think its likely Santander made Mr and Mrs D aware the policy was optional,  
and they chose to buy it. From what Ive seen it looks as if the policy  Santander 
recommended was right for them whether it was sold in 1989  or 1993. And I dont think any 
clearer or more complete  information wouldve made them act differently and decline it.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4504470