K821x#15summary and background to complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS)  trading as Norwich and Peterborough 
Building Society  mis-sold them a mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Mr and Mrs R took out an MPPI  policy with a mortgage in 2004. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy. 
I sent Mr and Mrs R and YBS a provisional decision on 18 December 2018. And I said Id 
consider anything else anyone wanted  to give me  as long as I received it by 
7 January 2019. Mr and Mrs Rs representatives  confirm theyve received it, and theyve not 
submitted any further points for me to consider. And YBS hasnt said it has anything  else for 
me to consider. 
So, because of that, I think what I said in my provisional decision still stands. Ive explained 
my reasoning again below.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Rs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  Ill explain why.
YBS had to make  it clear that Mr and Mrs R didnt  have to take out the MPPI and that they 
had a choice to take it out. YBS has limited paperwork  from the sale. This isnt surprising nor 
unusual given the sale took place  some 14 years ago. And businesses dont have to keep 
records indefinitely. 
So because of that Ill look at the information I do have, and where required, Ill make  my 
decision on what I think is most  likely  to have  happened  the balance of probabilities. 
Mr and Mrs R say they were told that if they didnt take out MPPI, then they wouldnt get the 
mortgage. YBS have  given me a copy of Mr and Mrs Rs signed mortgage  application  form 
and I note there isnt any mention of MPPI on there.  Ive  also seen a copy  of the mortgage 
offer and note that MPPI isnt a condition on it. But there is some wording which strongly 
recommends taking out mortgage protection and having read this I can see it relates  mainly  
to life cover. 
YBS say the sales  process at the time meant  a separate  MPPI application wouldve been 
completed after which it was sent to the insurer. And because of this, it doesnt have a copy 
of Mr and Mrs Rs completed  MPPI  form. But YBS has given me a copy of an example for 
what it says wouldve been used in Mr and Mrs Rs sale.  
This example form isnt dated. But Ive also seen  another one from YBS which is dated 
before Mr and Mrs Rs sale.  Both forms show a separate application form wouldve likely 
been completed for the MPPI and that it wouldve had to have been  signed for. 
So because of this and having weighed everything  up, I think  its most likely YBS made  it 
clear Mr and Mrs R didnt have  to take out the MPPI and that they chose to take it. Of course 
Ref: DRN47964322I cant be sure, but as Ive already said, I have to decide on what  I think most likely 
happened  and thats what Ive done  here. 
Mr and Mrs R say YBS recommended the MPPI to them,  YBS says it didnt. But even if I 
accept it did, it seems  to have been right for Mr and Mrs R based on what  Ive seen  of their 
circumstances at the time. For example  they werent  affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and they seem  to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs R about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R. But 
YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI  
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs R about  that. Because YBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs R, that was unfair.  
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs R have said - but these  points dont change  my 
decision.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R. 
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs R any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019. 
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4796432