K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy that was added  to her 
credit card account by Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds).
background
Mrs J successfully applied for a credit card with Lloyds in January 1999. 
When looking at the very limited information  (I have  not been able to see any sales 
documentation or read a detailed recollection  of how the PPI was sold), I cant be sure of 
when or how PPI was sold. Lloyds  has provided  records that go back to March 2000  and the 
PPI is on the account at this stage. So I cannot  be sure how or when the PPI was sold to 
Mrs J but I do know  it was sold at some point between January 1999  and March  2000.
The PPI that was sold to Mrs J was designed  to protect her monthly card repayments if she 
wasnt working because  of accident,  sickness, unemployment or redundancy.
Mrs J says Lloyds mis-sold the policy. She says if the costs, benefits  or optionality had been 
made clear to her then she would have declined it.
One of my colleagues  looked into Mrs Js complaint and didnt think it should  be upheld.    
Mrs J disagrees  and so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Js case.  
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Js complaint for the following reasons:
As I have already  mentioned  neither  Mrs J nor Lloyds can give me much information 
about the sale. This is not surprising given  the amount of time thats  passed.  Ive 
looked at what  Mrs J has said about how the policy was sold  that she wasnt  told 
about the optionality of the PPI. But it has been very difficult  for me to understand 
how this would have  happened with so little information available  about this sale. And 
in the absence of relevant documentation,  a more detailed recollection  or further 
information to support  what Mrs J has said, I cannot fairly conclude  on this occasion 
that the policy was sold as she suggests it was. I would need  to see more  information 
to support what Mrs J has said to conclude otherwise.  
I cant be sure if Lloyds gave a recommendation to Mrs J to have the policy but even 
if it did recommend the PPI, I think it was suitable for her anyway. Any claim under 
the policy more  likely  could be paid for up to 12 months. Mrs J would have found the 
benefit from the cover provided useful in an extended time of need (on top of her 6 
months full and 6 months half sick pay). Mrs J also wasnt  adversely affected by any 
of the policys  main exclusions. The policy also seemed affordable for Mrs J.
Ref: DRN45758242I cant see that Lloyds  explained about  the policys main terms as clearly as it 
shouldve done. But for the same reasons as the policy  was suitable, I dont think this 
wouldve made a difference  to Mrs Js decision to buy the policy.
It has been very difficult for me to get an understanding as to what happened during  this sale 
due to the lack of information available. That said and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont  
uphold Mrs Js complaint.
my final decision
For the above reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4575824