K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1999 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr L says NRAM Limited  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
NRAM had to make Mr L aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before 
adding it to his mortgage. Mr L has told us that the policy wasnt presented to him as 
optional. I cant be certain what was said at the time the policy  was sold and there is limited 
information available from the time of the sale. But this isnt unusual considering the sale 
took place a long time ago and businesses arent required to keep this type of information 
indefinitely. From the information I do have, I dont have enough to say that NRAM didnt 
present the policy as optional, or that Mr L didnt choose to have  it.  
NRAM didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L so it didnt  have  to check  if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure Mr L got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information NRAM gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI knowing  the other means he had to make his 
repayments which included good  sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
any sick pay Mr L would have received.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ls circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means NRAM doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But NRAM will pay back  some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
NRAM got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about  that. Because  NRAM didnt tell Mr L, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, NRAM has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium.
Mr L says that by offering compensation in relation to the commission  and profit share, 
NRAM has accepted  liability  and should refund the premiums he paid for the policy. 
I accept that if Mr L went to court and it was decided  there  was an unfair relationship under 
section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act, he might be awarded a full refund of the premiums 
Ref: DRN48550042he paid  this would  be a remedy available. But following  a Supreme Court judgement that 
dealt with, amongst  other things, the provisions around an unfair relationship under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974,  the financial regulator,  the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA) set 
out (through new rules  and guidance)  what businesses should  do if they established that the 
failure to disclose commission and profit share gave rise to an unfair  relationship.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
NRAM has done what the rules it must follow tell it to do. And while Ive thought about 
whether theres  anything  about Mr Ls particular complaint  and circumstances that means 
NRAM should do something different, I dont think there is. I think the offer thats been made 
is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
 
Mr L has also said that the policy wouldnt have protected his payments for the remaining 
term of the mortgage.  Ive thought  about  this but I dont  think  this show  the policy  was 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for Mr L and I think the benefits couldve proven valuable  
to him should the insured  risks have become a reality. So these points  dont change  my 
decision.
what the business needs  to do
NRAM has to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. NRAM should also pay back to Mr L any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
NRAM should pay back to Mr L the extra he paid each month because the commission  and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. NRAM should  also pay Mr L 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr L can claim  back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so NRAM Limited  does not have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr L.
But NRAM does have  to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4855004