K820x#14complaint
Mrs V complains Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services refused
to process her claim  for chargeback. 
background
Mrs V is represented in this complaint by her solicitors, but for ease of reading Ill simply 
refer to her.
Mrs V tells us she tried to book an airline flight for herself and her partner through online 
retailers, T and C. She says Ts website  crashed  the first time and believing  her 
application had failed she repeated the process. Mrs V says she rang the Post Office 
automated service and was informed the transactions had not been completed.  She 
changed retailers to C and booked the flight again.
The following  day she went abroad  but found  shed received  flight  purchase confirmations 
from both T and C.
Upon ringing the Post Office customer services  she says she was again told the payments 
had been cancelled. Acting  on this information  Mrs V says her partner made a further 
(fourth) flight  booking.
In summary,  Mrs V says she found  herself in this situation:
  Booking 1 - made through T - subsequently  cancelled by airline
  Booking 2 - made through T - subsequently  cancelled by airline
  Booking 3 - made through C
  Booking 4 - made by Mrs Vs partner - subject of offer by Post Office
She says she made a chargeback claim for bookings 1 and 2 - but the Post Office  has told 
her it didnt have any dispute rights  in these cases.
The Post Office issued  a final response  letter and accepted that errors in the guidance  given 
had led to the fourth booking. So it agreed  to refund  the costs of that booking, and pay £150 
compensation. But it didnt accept responsibility  for the costs  of the other bookings - which  it 
said had not been due to Post Office errors. It said the airline, E, had cancelled  the tickets - 
but Mrs V had made her bookings through T. As the flight  tickets were purchased on a non-
refundable basis, it had no reason to defend this.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 February 2019 in which  I indicated  it 
was not my intention to uphold it. The Post Office replied and confirmed it agreed with my 
provisional decision. Mrs V replied  and expressed  her disagreement  with the provisional 
decision. She also made further comments through her representatives and requested  I 
listen to telephone recordings of her being told her account would not be debited.
In particular she listed the following points:
1.The claim was not made under the chargeback  policy.
Ref: DRN467888822.Mrs V acted  upon the (mistaken) advice she was given.
3.She disputes her partner was refunded by the Post Office. She says she was made 
an offer but turned it down  as she was advised  by this service it could be seen as in 
full and final settlement.
4.Although accepting the bookings were non-refundable, she feels  this would  only 
apply if shed been able to use the booking confirmation provided.
5.In terms of whether  she had accepted  Ts terms and conditions, Mrs V did not believe 
the tickets had been successfully booked through T. She says she shouldnt  be 
penalised for procedures between the various  companies involved  in the process.
6.That she has a claim against the Post Office under Section 75 of the Consumer  
Credit Act 1974.
7.That there should be some procedure in place to check multiple bookings and that 
the Post Office  could have called her to check if she was using the card as intended.
I requested the telephone recordings but the Post Office have replied saying they are no 
longer available due to the passage of time since the calls were made in October 2017.
Ill deal with the various points which Mrs V has made in my final decision. But Ive not seen 
any new evidence which would cause me to change  my provisional view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mrs V has had this very unpleasant experience - and I can see it has caused her 
distress as well as financial  loss. I recognise from Mrs Vs description of events how easy  it 
was for the process to unwind  into the confusing situation which resulted. Online services 
are an everyday - and mostly  convenient  - feature of modern life. But its an unfortunate fact 
that occasionally things go wrong  and misunderstandings arise.  That seems  to be whats 
happened here.
Ill deal first with the issues  raised about  the nature of the claim and the reference to 
chargeback and Section 75.
I dont apply the law - directly - so its not up to me to decide if a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation has occurred - only a court can do that. But I do take relevant law into 
account when  considering  a complaint.
Section 75 gives a consumer the right to make  a like  claim  against  the supplier of finance 
as they could against the supplier of the goods and/or services.  But certain conditions are 
required for Section  75 to be engaged.  
Of most relevance to this complaint is the requirement for there to have been  a breach of 
contract and/or misrepresentation by the supplier  of goods and/or services.  
Ref: DRN46788883Its not clear theres been a breach of contract  or a misrepresentation. A misrepresentation is 
a false statement of fact which  caused  the consumer to act upon it. In this case the 
erroneous information  given to Mrs V occurred after the purchase of the tickets  through  T 
was completed.  So it wouldnt  amount to a misrepresentation regarding  those transactions.
For the same reasons,  I dont think the lost  phone calls affect the situation  - as in relation to 
the bookings through  T - the damage had already been done.
Nor is it clear there has been a breach of contract,  as T simply did as Mrs V requested  and 
booked the tickets. 
Where Section 75 does  not apply there are circumstances  when chargeback might cover  a 
transaction. And Id expect a business to consider this - which  is what the Post Office has 
done. But chargeback is a voluntary scheme  operated by some card issuers.  And its 
important to understand that chargebacks are decided on the basis of the card schemes 
rules - not the relative merits  of the cardholder/supplier dispute. Theres no automatic right to 
a refund. In this case the relevant rule which the complaint might  fall under is Goods or 
Services not provided.
I think the sequence of events and timeline is important here,  and Ill explain why in more  
detail. In her original complaint to us Mrs V said shed gone  online to book the flight  tickets.  
She thought  her first attempt to book flights through Ts website had failed - so she repeated  
the process. This took place  before  she contacted the Post Office automated service, and 
before making  a new booking with C. Unbeknown  to Mrs V, both her applications  with T had 
been successful   but it seems the confirmations  were sent to her spam  email box, not her 
main email inbox. The important issue here is that any mistaken advice Mrs V received did 
not affect the bookings with T - as they had already been completed.  And whether Mrs V 
believed the bookings through T had not been  successful  does  not affect the fact that she 
accepted the terms and conditions when she processed those applications. And that 
includes the tickets  being non-refundable.
Two further  bookings were then made  - one by her partner  - so in effect they ended up with 
three more  bookings than required. Mrs V has told us that she is personally out of pocket for 
the two bookings made through  T. And whilst  the Post Office did offer to refund the cost of 
the ticket her partner  booked - together with £150  compensation  - Im now aware  Mrs V 
declined this offer. 
Id originally thought shed  been refunded the cost of her partners ticket  as Id seen an 
acceptance form signed by her. But she later decided against this as she feared it would limit 
the scope of her claim. Im not sure what advice Mrs V was given about this when she made 
her complaint but the offer made by the Post Office  did stipulate it was in full and final 
settlement. So I understand why Mrs V did not want to risk accepting the offer on those 
terms.
In basic terms whats  happened  is that Mrs V, rather than book flights with an airline direct - 
has used a third party,  T. The service T provided  was simply to book the flights  which Mrs V 
identified. Whilst it was an automated process,  T carried out Mrs Vs instructions.  And whilst 
Mrs V was unaware she had duplicated  the bookings T did no more than action these 
requests. Neither  T nor the Post Office had any influence on these actions. Equally, they 
cant be held responsible for the confirmation  details going to an email box other  than the 
one expected by Mrs V.
Ref: DRN46788884The Post Office, correctly  in my opinion, took the view that as T had not done anything 
wrong there  was no basis on which to raise a chargeback. And I think even if it had done  so 
T would have successfully defended this. I say so because it didnt cancel the flights  - E did.
The airline, E, in line with its policy, and presumably identifying  the various bookings as 
duplicates, cancelled the two bookings made through  T. And it wouldnt refund the cost of 
the tickets despite  a request from T. Its fair to say that in cancelling  both flight bookings  and 
not refunding  at least one fare - theres no obvious reason why both needed to be cancelled 
- E seems to have acted unfairly. It might be hoped that a reputable business would respond 
somewhat more sympathetically  to Mrs V in such circumstances. Unfortunately,  I cant do 
anything for Mrs V as E is not a party to the complaint.
Nor can I instruct the Post Office to check  to see if card transactions  are as a consumer 
intended. Im not the industry regulator and the sheer volume of card payments would in any 
event make such an exercise a practical impossibility.
In summary,  I think the Post Office  has handled this complaint  fairly  and I shant be requiring 
it to do anything else.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mrs V, but I am able to conclude on a 
more positive note.  I asked the investigator to make  enquiries to see if the earlier  offer of 
compensation made by the Post Office  might be still be available.
As the original offer related to loss incurred by Mrs Vs partner - and not her - it is not within 
my jurisdiction to make  an award  as he is not the complainant. And the offer itself was 
conditional upon it being accepted within eight weeks - a time period which expired more 
than a year ago.
However, the Post Office  has now indicated that if Mrs V makes  contact it will still honour  
this offer.  That is entirely a matter for her. But my final decision  will bring to an end the 
involvement of this service.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4678888