K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent money  to 
her that she couldnt  afford to repay.
background
Based on the information provided, Sunny provided Mrs M with 24 loans between  June 2013 
and January 2017, including  a running  credit  account as the first loan. 
Mrs M says that the loans  were unaffordable. She says that Sunny upheld her complaint  in 
regard to the first loan but had ignored  her complaint in regard to her other loans.
Sunny says that before the loans were  provided  affordability and credit checks were  carried  
out. It says at the time of the loans Mrs M had a reported monthly income of £4,000 and the 
repayments were around 2.9% of this income. 
Our adjudicator noted that Sunny upheld Mrs Ms complaint in regard to the first loan and so 
he didnt consider this loan any further. In regard to the remainder of the loans he didnt think  
these should have been provided. He said that Mrs M had taken multiple drawdowns under 
her running  account over 17 months  and after this was stopped  other loans were provided. 
He thought Sunny should have been  concerned that Mrs M was struggling financially and 
that it was unlikely she was able to repay  her loans.  
In response to our adjudicators view Sunny offered to refund the interest and charges on 
loans 18 onwards. Mrs M said that loans one to 17 should also be upheld.  As agreement 
hasnt been reached, this case has been  passed  to me, an ombudsman, to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that Mrs M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN45284972the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mrs M could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
The first loan (the running credit account) was provided before CONC. At that time the 
relevant guidance was provided by the Office of Fair trading (OFT)  and this also set out the 
need to make a reasonable  assessment of whether  a borrower can afford to meet 
repayments in a sustainable manner.  This refers  to issues such  as being able to the make  
the repayments without undue difficulties  throughout the life of the agreement  and without 
having to realise  security  or assets.  It then further sets out that without undue difficulty 
means without having to borrow further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
Sunny has agreed  to uphold this complaint in regard to the first loan and also loans  18 
onwards. Sunny didnt agree that the other  loans  were  unaffordable. It has noted  the size of 
the loans, the repayments, and that there  was a break between  the first loan and the 
second. I have  considered  all of these comments along with the other information provided.
Having looked  at when the loans were provided  I do not find that the gap between the 
running credit account and the next loan was sufficient to suggest that Mrs Ms finances had 
moved on from whatever  situation had required her previous loan. The following loans were  
all provided either in close succession  or, in many  cases, before previous loans were repaid. 
Therefore I have considered all of the loans  as part of the same lending chain.
The first loan was a running credit account. The credit agreement explained that this type of 
credit was unsuitable for borrowing  over long periods. Mrs M made multiple drawdowns 
under this agreement  over an extended  period of around 17 months.  Shortly  after this loan 
was finished Sunny provided Mrs M with an instalment  loan. Given the number of 
drawdowns Mrs M made on her running  credit account I think Sunny should have been 
concerned that she was struggling to manage her finances. Mrs M continued to borrow 
taking out new loans before repaying  her previous  loans suggesting  that she was dependent  
on short  term borrowing.
Ref: DRN45284973Sunny agreed  to uphold Mrs Ms complaint in regard to loan one and I find this reasonable. 
In regard to the other loans, I dont think,  based on Mrs Ms borrowing history,  that Sunny 
should have considered these loans sustainably affordable for Mrs M. Therefore I uphold  this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that uphold this complaint. Elevate Credit International Limited (trading 
as Sunny) should:
refund all interest  and charges that Mrs M paid on loans one to 24;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*;
remove any negative  information about  loan one from Mrs Ms credit file;
the amount of time Mrs M was borrowing from loan two means any information recorded  
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans two to 24 should be removed from 
Mrs Ms credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny) to 
take off tax from this interest. It must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much  tax its 
taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4528497