K822xcomplaint
Ms M and Ms P complain  that Evolve FS Limited,  their mortgage broker, didnt  tell them  that 
the property they were  buying was too expensive to qualify for the help to buy ISA bonus.
background 
Ms M and Ms P were  first time buyers  buying a new build  property.  They bought with the 
assistance of the help to buy scheme, which lends part of the deposit for the property 
alongside the main mortgage, in return for a share  of the propertys equity.
In addition, both Ms M and Ms P had help to buy ISAs into which  theyd been saving for 
some years. A help to buy ISA is a savings account  which  if the balance  is used to buy a 
property, subject to various conditions  attracts a cash bonus paid by the government  on 
completion of the sale. One of the conditions is that the maximum purchase price of the 
property is £250,000 - £450,000 in London.
Ms M and Ms P arranged their mortgage  through Evolve. As their property was purchased 
for £265,000, they werent eligible for the help to buy ISA. They  complained that Evolve  
should have advised them that the property was too expensive for the bonus. They say they 
were looking  at other, cheaper, properties on the same estate and would have bought one of 
those. They  were relying on the bonus to buy furniture and instead have had to take out an 
expensive bank loan.
Our investigator said that Evolves job was to advise on the mortgage, not the help to buy 
ISA. However, it hadnt been clear enough  about that and had answered  some of Ms M and 
Ms Ps questions about the scheme without telling them  there were limits. As a result theyd 
been led to believe  they would get the bonus.  But she didnt think Evolve should pay them  
the lost bonus as theyd  benefitted  from having  a more expensive  larger  property, and they 
also should have  known the limits  on the scheme. She recommended  Evolve pay them  £350 
compensation. Evolve accepted that but Ms M and Ms P didnt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to set out first what Evolve  was doing here. As a mortgage  broker, it was 
advising Ms M and Ms P on their mortgage  application and it was arranging the mortgage for 
them.
It wasnt for Evolve to advise Ms M and Ms P what property  to buy. Evolve  could  and did  
tell them  the maximum  amount  theyd be able to borrow. But it was up to Ms M and Ms P to 
decide whether  to borrow the full amount and to choose a property they wanted.
However, Evolve is an experienced mortgage broker  and one that advertises itself as a 
specialist in new build,  first time buyer  and help to buy. Both help to buy loans and help to 
buy ISAs are government schemes  aimed at new build and first time buyers  respectively. Id 
expect a mortgage broker specialising in helping such borrowers to be familiar  with these 
schemes and how they work  not least because they would affect  the amount borrowers 
need to borrow.
Ref: DRN43148272In this case, I dont  think Evolve agreed to provide detailed  advice on the help to buy ISA or 
the scheme rules. However, I have seen  exchanges of emails  between Ms M and Ms P and 
Evolve, discussing the ISA, the bonus and how it would work. For example, Evolve rightly 
says that the bonus is paid on completion,  and is something their conveyancer would apply 
for at the time. But it doesnt  say that Ms M and Ms P werent eligible for the bonus because 
of the value of the property they were buying.
Looking at everything that was said and all the circumstances,  I think Evolve  ought  to have 
been aware of the scheme rules  and how the ISAs  worked. Judging  by its emails, it clearly  
was. And it was straying into giving them advice about the scheme. I think it missed  
opportunities to tell Ms M and Ms P that they werent  eligible for the bonus  and wrongly  gave 
them the impression  it would be paid to them on completion. It could have simply refused to 
discuss it. But having started to advise them about it, Evolve should have made sure the 
advice it gave was correct and complete.
However, I dont think it would be fair for Evolve  to pay Ms M and Ms P the bonus. I think  
they should bear some responsibility  too. It was their savings, and they hadnt engaged  
Evolve to give this specific advice. They were clearly aware  of how help to buy and lifetime 
ISAs worked and were  managing their money carefully to maximise them. It may be that, 
having moved from London, they forgot the limit was lower outside  London.  But whatever the 
reason, they should have checked the criteria themselves too  especially if, as they say, 
they were relying  on the bonus  to furnish  their new house.
I also dont think it would  be fair to require Evolve  to pay Ms M and Ms P the bonus because 
Im not persuaded they would have chosen  a different property. Buying a first home is a big 
decision. It involves  selecting somewhere to live in for many years to come,  and there are 
many factors  in that decision.  Im not persuaded Ms M and Ms P would have chosen a 
smaller property  with fewer bedrooms,  for example  just to have earned the £4,500  
bonus. I think its more  likely they were focussed  on buying the best house, the one most 
suitable for them, that they could afford than it is they would have  chosen  somewhere less 
good just to get the bonus.  Therefore  they wouldnt have got the bonus anyway.
And even  if they would have chosen  a smaller  cheaper house, theyve benefitted from 
having this house in a way they wouldnt have  done if theyd chosen another. They  have a 
bigger house to live in. They may well get more  capital gain over time as a result. Its very 
hard to say theres  any financial  loss, taken over the long term, from buying a bigger and 
better house than from having £4,500 paid to them up front.
However, they were  caused some trouble and upset  by expecting and budgeting for the 
bonus, and having to raise funds in another way when they didnt get it. Evolve did contribute  
to that trouble and upset by missing  opportunities to remind them  they werent eligible for the 
bonus. Its agreed to pay them £350 compensation for that, which I think  is fair in all the 
circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Evolve 
FS Limited to pay Ms M and Ms P £350  compensation.
Ref: DRN43148273Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4314827