K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that a new car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement with BMW  
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality.  He wants to now 
reject the car.
background
In September  2017 Mr C acquired a new car via a four year hire purchase agreement  with 
BMWFS. Shortly  after taking the car Mr C noticed  that the door seals  were  discoloured  and 
raised this with the dealership. The dealership accepted this had been caused by the 
chemicals that had been used to clean the car and offered to re-order  the seals  and replace 
them.
In January 2018 Mr C returned to the dealership  to complain  about various issues  he was 
having with the car. These  were;  the engine  over revving when accelerating,  a whining 
sound when travelling between first and second  gear, aggressive downshifting in automatic  
mode that caused  the car to jerk, jerking when accelerating  heavily from being  stationary, 
loud brake  squeaks  even  when the car was warm and harsh gearing when in comfort mode. 
Mr C said these faults all appeared intermittently when driving  the car.
The dealership was unable to find any fault with the car and advised  Mr C to keep  running  
the car as they would rectify over time.
In March 2018 Mr C took the car back to the dealership as he said the faults  were  still 
occurring. Again the dealership wasnt able to find anything wrong with the car. Mr C told the 
dealership he now wanted to reject  the car and they told him to contact BMWFS. So Mr C 
made a complaint to BMWFS.
It was arranged that the Regional  Technical  Manager would inspect the car. The car was 
tested for four hours and taken on a 70 mile test drive. No faults with the car were located.
BMWFS didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint but it did offer him one months  payment under the 
agreement to be reimbursed as compensation for the delay in dealing with his complaint.   
Mr C says that the problems with the car continued  and he complained  to this service  as he 
thought the car was unsafe to drive. He provided  video evidence  of a knocking  noise the 
car was making and in September 2018  the car was taken  back  to the dealership. 
The dealership found faults with the cars brakes and camshaft and repairs  were  carried out. 
Mr C says that the problems with the car still continue and has provided  further  video 
evidence of the knocking noise from the back of the car which occurs when its unlocked and 
continues when being driven.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Cs complaint  should  be upheld.  She said as this was 
a new luxury brand of car then it was reasonable to expect it to have been fault free for a 
period of time as durability was a part of satisfactory quality. The investigator said she 
wouldnt expect the engine to have had problems after a few months use.
The investigator said she hadnt been  provided  with a copy  of the tests undertaken by the 
Regional Technical Manager but was satisfied on the evidence that shed seen the car 
Ref: DRN49990072wasnt of satisfactory quality. Mr C was entitled  to reject it as despite efforts by the 
dealership to fix the faults the problems with the car persisted.
The investigator said BMWFS should collect the car, repay  Mr Cs deposit (plus  interest),  
refund the money Mr C spent on extras for the car (plus  interest),  refund GAP  insurance and 
the motor insurance  cancellation fee, refund the DVLA fee for retaining his private  number 
plate, pay the one months  payment  under the agreement already offered as compensation 
and reimburse Mr C 10% of two monthly  payments as compensation for his loss of 
enjoyment as hed been given a lower spec car to use while  his was being repaired.
Mr C has agreed  with our investigators  view and says the car continues to have problems in 
particular with the brakes. But BMWFS disagreed. It says it rejected Mr Cs complaint 
because no faults  were found  with the car when it was inspected in March and June 2018. 
Faults were only confirmed in September 2018  by which  time Mr C had had the car for 12 
months. As this was outside the six months  as per Consumer Rights Act 2015 this 
demonstrated the car was of satisfactory quality.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (The Act) its a legal requirement that goods are of 
satisfactory quality, fit for purpose  and as described. If they arent  then the Act provides 
a consumer with a number of rights  depending on the nature of the fault and when it arises. 
For instance, if the fault comes to light within the first 30 days then the consumer can reject 
the goods but if the fault arises within the first six months then the seller would have to prove 
it wasnt faulty and if unable to do so is provided with an opportunity to fix the fault free of 
charge. If the fault comes  to light after six months then its for the consumer to show  that the 
goods were faulty  at the point of sale before  the seller has to fix them at no cost to the 
consumer.
BMWFS says that as no faults  were  found with the car until after 12 months  of it being in    
Mr Cs possession then this proves the car wasnt inherently faulty.  It says this is in line with 
the Act but I disagree  with its view. Ive seen from the evidence that Mr C raised problems 
with the car that were  similar in nature since January 2018. This means  Mr C was 
experiencing issues with the car within the first six months and not after 12 months. 
I appreciate that the problems Mr C described were  intermittent and that they werent 
replicated during  the two inspections undertaken by the dealership or the one undertaken by 
the Regional  Technical  Manager. But Mr C was clear the problems with the car continued for 
several months before the faults that required repairs were  found in September 2018. He 
also provided video  evidence that doesnt appear  to have  been followed up by BMWFS  as to 
what issues he was experiencing with the car after it had been inspected. 
I dont think its reasonable to say that if a fault is found after 12 months that it cant  have 
been developing at the point of sale. It would depend on the scope of the earlier inspections  
and whether the subsequent fault related to the earlier  problems that had been experienced 
or if they were related  to something else like fair wear and tear. I appreciate  car parts will, 
from time to time, require repairs and replacement. But I havent seen any evidence that the 
Ref: DRN49990073repairs carried out on the car in September 2018  were as a result  of fair wear  and tear. And 
taking into account  the age and number of miles the car had been driven I dont think most 
people would expect  a car of this type to have required repairs of this nature so soon. I think  
its reasonable to expect  car parts to have  some durability especially if the car is new. If parts  
unexpectedly only last for a short time then I think its reasonable to presume that they are 
faulty. 
It also appears from the further video evidence provided by Mr C that these repairs  havent 
been successful  in resolving the problem with the car making loud rattling noises.
BMWFS says the car was extensively  tested by the Regional Technical Manager who is a 
senior engineer.  But I dont know  the nature of those tests  as the report that has been 
provided is very brief and says only that the car was test driven over a variety  of types of 
roads without any difficulties being  encountered.  However, it also says that the car is fitted 
with a CAN device which is used to prevent  the car from starting and that it was possible 
this was having a negative  effect as it could interfere with the cars  Bus network. I havent 
seen any evidence that this was explored  as a possibility for the cars jerky performance.
Ive seen the job sheets for the repairs conducted  in September  2018.  These  were  in respect 
of Mr Cs complaints about  a loud rattle from the engine and brakes, issues  which he had 
raised before.  Mr C says that these rattles persist and has provided proof of that via video 
evidence. So Im satisfied  the repairs were linked  to the faults raised by Mr C during his first 
six months of ownership of the car.
Looking at the protracted nature of the Mr Cs complaints, the inspections  and the repairs  
that appear to have  been unsuccessful I think its reasonable  to say that BMWFS  has had an 
opportunity to repair and hasnt  been  able to do so.
So looking  at the evidence Im satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of sale and that Mr C is entitled  to reject it. Im upholding Mr Cs complaint  and ask BMWFS  
to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further  to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr C.
Refund Mr Cs deposit together with interest  at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Refund the extras on the vehicle  that Mr C paid for and that amounted  to £10,687.27 
together with interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement. (These extras being:  the fitting of interior and exterior  kit 
including racing steering  wheel costing £5737.27, ceramic coating  costing  £1,500, 
GHOST security  system costing £900,  privacy glass costing £300,  personalised M3 
private plate costing £1,800 and GAP insurance  costing £450).
Refund the DVLA fees for Mr C retaining  his private number plate.
Refund the GAP  and motor insurance cancellation fees once proof of cost has been 
provided by Mr C.
Pay Mr C £841.52 compensation as offered previously for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Pay Mr C 10% of two monthly payments under the agreement  for his loss of 
enjoyment due to the courtesy car being  of a lower  spec.
Remove  any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file in respect of this agreement. 
Ref: DRN49990074my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mr Cs complaint  and ask BMW  Financial 
Services (GB) Limited to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further  to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr C.
Refund Mr Cs deposit together with interest  at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Refund the extras on the vehicle  that Mr C paid for and that amounted  to £10,687.27 
together with interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement. (These extras being:  the fitting of interior and exterior  kit 
including racing steering  wheel costing £5737.27, ceramic coating  costing  £1,500, 
GHOST security  system costing £900,  privacy glass costing £300,  personalised M3 
private plate costing £1,800 and GAP insurance  costing £450).
Refund the DVLA fees for Mr C retaining  his private number plate.
Refund the GAP  and motor insurance cancellation fees once proof of cost has been 
provided by Mr C.
Pay Mr C £841.52 compensation as offered previously for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Pay Mr C 10% of two monthly payments under the agreement  for his loss of 
enjoyment due to the courtesy car being  of a lower  spec.
Remove any adverse  information from Mr Cs credit  file in respect of this agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4999007