K820x#14complaint
Mrs L say Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs L bought  the policy  in July 2000 during a phone call. BoS has checked  its records and 
says Mrs L bought the PPI without taking any borrowing  with it. This means the PPI was a 
standalone policy.   
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs L for accident, sickness, and unemployment   subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  Mrs L £457 a month. At the time, it cost 
£17.35 a month. 
At the time,  Mrs L was employed  as a HR manager.  She has told us she was entitled to 
between three and six months  sick pay, redundancy pay and a death in service benefit. Mrs 
L also says she had some savings and shares  which she couldve relied  on.  Mrs L has said 
she had medical  conditions at the time of the sale. 
Mrs Ls representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ls representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs L wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ls 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mrs L about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs L and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs L received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN48462782Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ls. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
BoS sold the PPI to Mrs L without providing any credit.  That means the unfair relationship  
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN48462783Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ls 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mrs L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Mrs L sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN48462784-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs L, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs L suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs L and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
Did Mrs L know she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
The PPI was arranged  during a phone call. BoS isnt able to provide a copy  of this call or any 
paperwork from the time the sale took place  this is unfortunate, but unsurprising  for a sale
that took place  from so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep records  indefinitely.
So Ive considered Mrs Ls comments alongside what  we know in general about how
BoS sold PPI at the time to decide  whats more likely to have happened.  And based on
what I know about how BoS sold PPI I wouldve expected there to have been a discussion 
with the advisor  about the PPI to decide the level of cover and set up the policy. Mrs L didnt 
take any borrowing  out with the PPI, and I think this shows she wouldve been  aware  the 
policy was a separate and standalone  product which she didnt have to take. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs L knew the policy  was optional 
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did BoS provide advice?
Mrs L hasnt said whether BoS provided  her with advice. BoS has looked  at her complaint on 
the basis that it did provide advice. I have done  the same as this holds BoS to a higher 
standard. 
This means  BoS had to advise  Mrs L with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs L. It seems Mrs L cant remember  clearly  what  happened  and there  
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a phone call where  there  is no information. The adviser  is likely  to 
have had some limited information  about Mrs Ls financial circumstances, but there  is no 
specific evidence to show the adviser  took steps  to establish whether Mrs L would have 
been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  
did not fully meet her needs. For example, there is nothing to suggest  BoS considered 
whether Mrs L had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs L given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN48462785While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs L, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs L met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-We dont know what Mrs Ls financial commitments were  at the time. However, the 
PPI wouldve provided financial  assistance should Mrs L be unable to work for an 
extended period  of time. Although Mrs L had some sick pay and redundancy pay 
from her employer, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this provision, providing 
valuable financial assistance  should Mrs L be out of work.  
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs L.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs L. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Ls employment or occupation which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mrs L has told us about 
two medical conditions she had before and at the time of sale.  Based on what  Mrs L 
has told us it seems  these conditions were treated  at the time and didnt  cause her 
on-going issues  which resulted  in extended periods of time off work. There  were also 
no additional  restrictions on cover  for mental  health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability and unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mrs Ls 
circumstances.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mrs L be disabled or unemployed for 60 
days before she  could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 
12 months for each  claim, it still provided  valuable cover given Mrs Ls circumstances 
and the potential consequences  should  Mrs L be unable  to make the repayments on 
financial commitments. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mrs L sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BoS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs L was given a broad description  of what the 
policy was intended  to do and of the approximate costs. I have reached this conclusion 
because I think its unlikely Mrs L would  have taken out the policy  without any sense of what 
the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs L agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs L Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mrs L all of the information she needed 
Ref: DRN48462786about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ls representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ls. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ls representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs L about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her.
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ls representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs L has suggested. And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mrs L? To what extent did Mrs L suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs L. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs L suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mrs L would have 
still taken out the policy,  had BoS done things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs L, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs L has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, 
Mrs L would  have acted  differently,  or whether she would have taken out the policy  in any 
event.
Mrs L says she wouldnt  have taken  it out and believes  I should  presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN48462787Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs L had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised her that there was a suitable  product 
she could buy that would  protect her mortgage payments in the event she was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ls circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs L knew  she would  have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear BoS told her the exact premium at the point Mrs L applied  for 
the policy. Having  said that, it seems  likely  Mrs L would have been told the cost before the 
policy started and she paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the costs  were 
significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible she might  have  
raised that with BoS at the time,  or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs L would have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the phone call in which she agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mrs L would get back in return 
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Ls expectations  about  
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim was significantly different to what  the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs L thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any chronic or continuing physical or mental 
condition or disease  which the policyholder  knew of, or should reasonably have 
known of, on the start date or any physical or mental condition or disease for which 
they had received treatment or advice  during  the 12 months before the start date and 
which recurred at any time after the start date.
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs L 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs L be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy  wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs L from taking out the policy.  
Ref: DRN48462788But the evidence  about Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mrs L says she had medical 
conditions when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had she 
needed time off work because of these  conditions, I dont think  better information about this 
exclusion would have  put her off agreeing to it. I say this because, as outlined above,  Mrs L 
has told us her conditions  were treated at the time they occurred.  Mrs L hasnt told us any 
ongoing issues she had because of these medical conditions  and it doesnt  seem they have 
affected her ability  to work. So, based  on the information available  I dont think she wouldve 
envisaged that these would be the main reason shed need to make  a claim.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs L would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
BoS may not have told Mrs L that any claim she made  would be limited to a 12 month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Mrs L would have received  full sick pay for. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs L would still have thought a policy that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Mrs L be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and might potentially help preserve Mrs Ls sick 
pay, redundancy pay or savings for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs L would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Mrs L was made  redundant, or unable to work  
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs L 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ls representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
Ref: DRN48462789substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs L would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs L 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs L in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mrs L compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs L thinks  BoS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mrs L in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2000 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ls representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mrs L and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs L in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN484627810Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2021.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4846278