K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  about how Hiscox  Insurance  Company Limited has handled  her claim under 
her school fee insurance policy.
background
Ms B took out an insurance policy with Hiscox  to protect the fees she pays for her sons  
independent school education.  In December 2018, Ms Bs husband passed away  and she 
made a claim against the policy. Hiscox rejected  the claim in January 2019. They said 
Ms Bs husband had committed suicide and this cause of death was specifically excluded  in 
the policy terms.
She complained to Hiscox  in January  2019  but her complaint wasnt acknowledged  until ten 
days later,  so she says this led to delays in Hiscox dealing with her complaint. 
Hiscox made  the decision  to make an ex-gratia  payment to cover  the cost of five terms of 
school fees which was £14,740.  But Ms B says Hiscox caused  significant delays as the 
payment wasnt received  until March 2019 when  the request  for the payment  was made in 
January 2019.  The final response  letter to Ms Bs complaint wasnt  issued until May 2019. 
She says this caused her considerable distress and inconvenience  in an already  difficult 
time. Hiscox  rejected Ms Bs complaint so she brought it to our service.
An investigator at this service reviewed  the complaint and didnt think  Hiscox had done 
anything wrong. She said that Ms B wasnt entitled to receive any money under the policy  
because the terms  had specifically excluded this cause  of death. She didnt think  Hiscox had 
taken an unreasonable amount of time in dealing with the complaint.
Ms B didnt agree so this has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms B feels quite strongly that the complaint should  be against the broker 
as her communications were with them and she feels the broker  caused the delays.  Firstly, I 
think its important to explain the responsibilities of a broker and an underwriter of an 
insurance policy so that its clear  what each party is required to do.
In these circumstances the broker arranges  the insurance policy  cover on behalf of the 
consumer. They are an intermediary between the consumer and the insurance provider 
when the policy is taken out. The insurance  policy is with Hiscox  and they are the 
underwriters of the policy. They are ultimately responsible for deciding whether a claim is 
paid or not. This means that in this particular case Hiscox was responsible for making a 
decision on the claim Ms B made  against the policy and not the broker.  As the broker acts 
on the authority  of the insurer, the complaint  is set up against the insurer, Hiscox.
In looking at this complaint,  I need  to consider whether Hiscox have acted reasonably in their 
dealings with Ms B, and if theyve provided the level of service  we would expect. Ms B made 
a claim against the policy in December 2018  and Hiscox  declined  the claim in January 2019 
based on the policy exclusions.  The claim was reviewed and a decision made in less than a 
Ref: DRN43587422month. This was also over the holiday period so I think the time taken to make a decision 
here is efficient. 
Ms B then complained to Hiscox in January 2019.  She says they didnt  acknowledge her 
complaint for ten days and this resulted in delays in dealing with her complaint. I think it must 
have been distressing for Ms B to be unsure of her sons school  situation.  She was already 
going through a terrible time due to the death of her husband,  and so I recognise that having 
to wait for a response from Hiscox would have been  difficult under the circumstances. 
I can see that Ms Bs insurance claim and complaint involved several different parties   
Hiscox, the broker,  the school,  the loss adjuster and Ms B. Everything  Ive seen suggests 
Hiscox were doing all that they could to help Ms B in this difficult time. The ex-gratia 
payment of £14,740  being a significant amount would have required authorisation which Id 
expect must  take time to be agreed, particularly  with the various parties involved in this. 
From what  Ive seen, theres  been  on-going communication  between these parties for the 
duration of the complaint so Im not persuaded that the ten days to acknowledge the 
complaint caused  any delay  in the complaint being dealt with.
I appreciate the uncertainty Ms B may have faced  particularly  as it took around five months 
for a final response  letter to be issued. But, the evidence Ive seen shows  that Hiscox 
contacted her each  time they were  unable to respond in full and they maintained contact with 
her throughout the complaint. So, I dont think its entirely unreasonable that they didnt 
respond to her complaint in the timeframe they said they would, particularly as they 
contacted her to let her know.
Whilst I think there were some occasions when Hiscox didnt meet the given timeframes  for 
responding, I dont  think this should warrant compensation. The ex-gratia payment wasnt 
something Hiscox was required to do.  They were within  their rights to stop at declining the 
claim in January 2019. It doesnt seem fair to tell them that they should now pay further 
compensation for failing  to do something they werent ever expected to do anyway. 
I know this will be disappointing for Ms B as this isnt the outcome she was hoping  for, but as 
Ive explained  above, I dont think Hiscox acted unreasonably in the way they handled her 
complaint so I wont be asking them to do more.
Ref: DRN43587423my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint against Hiscox Insurance  
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4358742