K820x#14complaint
Ms M says that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) didnt handle the repairs  for 
her property properly, and that the compensation shes been offered isnt enough.  Ms M 
wants the compensation increased to £8,617.34.
background
Ms M has been helped  with her complaint by Mr M.
In June 2018 Ms M contacted Lloyds  to say that a water leak in her kitchen had damaged  
the ground floor of her home. Lloyds accepted her claim and appointed  a contractor to look 
at the damage. Ms Ms home needed  drying  before flooring was replaced, and Lloyds 
offered to move Ms M to alternate accommodation whilst this happened.  Ms M said she 
preferred to stay at home.  
The work was carried  out and the contractor said it was complete in October. In December  
Ms M reported her house was still damp, and in January 2019 Lloyds discovered that a 
repair done by a previous contractor had led to a second leak in much the same place as the 
first. Effectively the whole drying and repair  process had to be done again, including lifting  
carpet and parquet flooring in rooms adjacent to the kitchen. Lloyds new contractor 
concentrated on drying the kitchen first and later the adjoining  rooms.
The work was eventually completed in April 2019.
Ms M complained about the delays, lack of communication  and appointments not being kept 
by the first contractor and that promised schedules  of work werent sent by the second 
contractor. Lloyds agreed the standard of service had fallen below expectations  and offered 
a total of £1,050 compensation.
Ms M said this wasnt high enough,  and says if shed known how long it was going to take to 
sort out the house shed  have accepted  the offer of alternate  accommodation when it was 
first offered.  She thinks Lloyds should pay her what Mr M has calculated as the likely cost of 
the alternate accommodation (£8,500)  plus an extra £117.64 she spent on a birthday 
celebration, which had to be in a hotel because of the state of her home at the time.
Lloyds said it thought the compensation offered  was a fair response to the issues Ms M had 
had to face. Ms M remained unhappy  about  this and brought  her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the compensation  was high enough. Ms M doesnt  agree, so Ive 
been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to uphold this complaint, and Ill explain why.
I do appreciate Ms M had been caused some considerable  distress  and inconvenience 
whilst her home has been repaired. And its very unfortunate that the process  had to be done 
twice because of a mistake made by the first contractor. The correct thing to do when that 
Ref: DRN41468812sort of mistake  occurs  is for the insurer to put things right  which Lloyds has now done. Im 
pleased to see Ms M thought the second  lot of work progressed more smoothly than the first.
Lloyds has acknowledged  that it and its contractors  didnt get things right on several  
occasions, particularly  during the first set of repairs. Its apologised and sent Ms M some  
compensation for this. Thats what Id expect it to do. Ms M hasnt  cashed  any of the 
cheques as she didnt  think  the amount was high enough. Thats  her choice of course,  but if 
she had it wouldnt have  affected this decision.
I understand why Ms M says shed  have moved out of her home if shed known how long it 
was going to take to put things right.  Its often  easier to reconsider our actions  with the 
benefit of hindsight, but that doesnt mean Lloyds is responsible for Ms Ms choice at the 
time. Nor do I think  the compensation should  be based on what  Lloyds might have paid out if 
Ms M had made a different decision. Thats because the reimbursement of costs  such  as 
rent or a hotel bill  is completely separate from any amount of compensation that is offered. 
In other  words, theres  no link between  the two, and it wouldnt be fair to base one on the 
potential value of the other.
I do think its right that Lloyds offer Ms M a substantial amount of compensation for the way 
the claim has been handled.  I think  £1,050 is a substantial amount and, having read what 
both Ms M and Lloyds  have to say, I think its a fair amount for it to pay. I note also that 
Lloyds said it would  reimburse Ms Ms costs for drying and cleaning if she provided evidence 
that she incurred  this cost. I dont  know  whether thats been done,  but Id expect Lloyds  to 
honour that offer. Im afraid I cant,  however,  insist  Lloyds meet the cost of Ms Ms birthday 
celebrations, as it was her choice to hold them in a hotel.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I think  Lloyds  Bank General Insurance 
Limiteds offer is fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4146881