K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains about the redress offered by Scottish Widows Limited (the business) in 
response to its failure to properly administer her unit-linked reviewable whole of life policy  
(the policy).   
Mrs F is being  assisted by her daughter. 
background
In 1996, Mrs F was advised  to take out the policy with optional  indexation.  The policy  was 
reviewable every five years.    
In February 2019,  Mrs F received a review letter  telling her that the policy had failed  its 
review  and that shed  need to increase the premium to maintain the sum assured or pay 
the same  premium for a lower level of cover. 
Mrs F complained to the business about  the (sharp)  premium increase. She said that in 2006  
she was told (in writing)  that her premiums  would remain  fixed  moving forwards.  
The business upheld  the complaint but doesnt agree that it said her premiums would remain 
unchanged for the rest of her life. In summary, it said:
Following the policy  reviews, it had incorrectly informed Mrs F that her premiums  
were enough to pay for her policy, when they werent, and thats what led to the 
premium increase in 2019.  
In 2006, it agreed to remove  the optional indexation from the policy  the automatic 
7.5% annual premium increase. It didnt agree to stop reviewing  the policy,  which  is a 
separate matter  and cant be opted out of. This means the premiums can still 
increase if, following  a review, theyre  found not to be enough to pay for cover. 
It conducted a review of all the policies effected by this issue,  not just Mrs Fs policy, 
and felt that a different method of restructuring the policies  would  be better for its 
customers.
So, by way of redress its re-calculated Mrs Fs policy so that it would be sustainable 
in the longer term, and that she would  pay less going forward than she wouldve if the 
reviews had been carried out correctly.  However, she would still have to decide 
whether to pay a higher premium to maintain the level of cover.   
It offered  Mrs F £150 compensation  for trouble and upset caused by the error. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The business was right to uphold the complaint, for the reasons that the business 
gave. 
In February 2006, Mrs F was sent a review letter telling her that the policy  had 
passed its review  it wasnt necessary to make any changes  and that the next 
review was due in 2011. 
In April 2006, she was sent a (separate) indexation letter  notifying her of the 
indexation increase. Following  an objection  from Mrs F, the business sent her a 
follow-up letter in which  it confirmed that it would no longer  increase  her premiums 
annually. This undertaking was only in relation to indexation  and didnt mean that the 
policy wouldnt continue to be reviewable.   
Ref: DRN49086832Although the redress methodology used  by the business is different to what we would 
normally recommend, it was still fair and reasonable, and put Mrs F in a better 
position than if the business had followed our recommendation. In other  words,  
moving forward the policy could be maintained at a lower  cost to Mrs F. 
If the business wants to go over and beyond what  wed recommend, its free to do so. 
So, instead of paying a much  higher premium which  is what  she wouldve  paid if the 
policy had been reviewed correctly under our method   shell  be required to pay 
£140.37 moving forward, for the same  level of cover. In addition, the five-years policy  
reviews would only continue until Mrs F reached  75 years of age and then stop. 
If £140.37 is still too much to pay, she still has the option to decrease  her level of 
cover.
Because Mrs Fs circumstances may have changed since the policy  was sold in 
1996, she may want to consider getting financial advice before she decides what  to 
do. 
The £150 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs F rejected the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, 
she made the following key points:
She doesnt feel like shes been  listened  to by the business. 
Its taken the business  a long time to spot this error and all the while  its been  taking  
money from her. 
If the position hadnt been misrepresented in 2006, shed have surrendered  the policy  
then. Shes still adamant that she was told her premiums wouldnt increase. 
Shes still unhappy about the premium increase and being told to pay more  to 
maintain her sum assured. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
Hes unable agree  that the business  guaranteed  not to increase her premiums  at all. 
The business has provided Mrs P with options moving forward  but understands that 
Mrs F isnt willing to reduce her sum assured.  However, if she decides to increase 
her premium,  the business  will make a substantial contribution  to the fund in order to 
keep the premium low. Mrs F can still surrender the plan, at any point, if thats  what 
she wants to do.  
Overall, the business has taken  reasonable steps to address its errors. 
As the current redress proposed by the business leaves Mrs P in a better position 
than she would be  had the business followed our recommendation  hes unable  to 
ask the business to do any more.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.    
Ref: DRN49086833On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mrs F says,  Im unable to safely 
say she was told her premiums would remain fixed from 2006,  no matter  what.  
I also think the redress offered by the business  considering its failure to review  the policy 
correctly, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
But before I explain  why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Mrs Fs 
strength of feeling  about this matter.  Shes  provided  detailed submissions to support this 
complaint, which  Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont  take the fact 
my findings  focus  on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. 
Its not my role to regulate or punish the business for any alleged breaches, thats the role of 
the industry regulator the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). My role is to consider whether, 
or not, the business has done  anything wrong.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mrs F and the business,  and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  In deciding whats  
fair and reasonable, I must take into account  the relevant law, regulation and best industry 
practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been  
given, whats more  likely than not to have happened.
I think its still important to reiterate  that the type of policy Mrs F is complaining about is 
known as a reviewable whole-of-life insurance. Its not set up for a specific term, or 
premium, but is instead designed to pay out on death  whenever it occurs.
At the start of the policy, the amounts of the cover and monthly premium are based on 
assumptions about a number  of different factors, including future cost of life cover and 
investment performance, that arent  known at the start. This is why Mrs F couldnt have been  
told precisely how the premiums were  going  to increase.
The plan illustrations  or projections  can only give an indication of what the cost of premiums 
are likely to be. They  offer no guarantee as to the likely cost of, or increased cost of, the 
premiums.
Each premium paid into the policy is split two ways. The first part is used to pay for the cost 
of cover in that month. The remainder is invested into a fund or funds. The cost of the cover 
is not fixed and increases  with age.
This doesnt mean the policy is age discriminatory - it just takes account of the higher risk 
the insurer will have resulting from the insured persons increased ages, as the risk of 
making a claim becomes  higher.
I note that Mrs F is now more likely to make a claim than she wouldve  been 10 or 15 years 
ago. It doesnt  mean that the policy was designed to stop Mrs F from continuing with it in 
later life when shes  likely to need it most. Im mindful that its over 25 years since  the policy  
was taken out so the premiums are bound  to be much higher.  
The policy was designed to be reviewed regularly  every five years  to check how it was 
performing against  the original assumptions. At each review  the insurer also needed  to make 
new assumptions, about the cost of cover, life expectancy and investment performance in 
Ref: DRN49086834the future.  This wouldve helped determine  whether, or not, the premiums  Mrs F paid could 
maintain the level of cover or whether  shed  need  to increase it to pay for the increased cost 
of life cover.
The hope  is that the investment element will grow enough to fund the shortfall when the 
policy reaches the point  that the cost of cover becomes greater than the premium  being 
paid. 
In this case the business accepts that it failed to review the policy correctly, and incorrectly 
told Mrs F that she didnt need  to increase  her premium to maintain her policy when she did. 
So, shes  been  paying a lower premium  to maintain her sum assured which  isnt sustainable  
and explains  the recent sharp increase in premium. 
Despite Mrs Fs concerns, Im satisfied that the business redress  methodology is not only 
fair and reasonable but also puts Mrs F in a better  position than if the business had used our 
traditional redress methodology  to put things  right.
Where an insurer has failed to conduct  reviews,  we would require the business to conduct  
the missed reviews and reconstitute the policy based on what the customer wouldve done 
(or likely  to have done) at each review. Our service might not recommend that the consumer 
pay any missed  premiums  to bring the policy up to date, however, the business could still 
require the policyholder to pay a much higher premium moving forward. In the circumstances  
we also wouldnt generally recommend  the business  pay into the fund so that the policy  
could be maintained for the longer term. 
In this instance, the business is not only bringing  the policy up to date, at no cost to the 
consumer, but its also investing large sums  of money into the plan to ensure (in simple  
terms) even  though  the policy will remain reviewable, its sustainable in the longer term, with 
hopefully fewer (and smaller) premium increases. I understand that its already paid in over 
£5,300 into the policy and has committed to paying in another  significant lump sum if Mrs F 
decides to carry  on with the policy and pay £140.37 going forward.  The hope  is that the 
investment element will grow enough to fund any future shortfall  when the cost of cover 
becomes greater than the premium being paid, so that the policy  is sustainable in the longer 
term.  
I understand the business has chosen  to do this of its own accord, not only for Mrs Fs policy 
but for a number  of other policies its failed to review  correctly, which may have been behind 
its motivation to do more  for its customers.  In other  words, the business  is now offering to 
not only to make up for its mistake but also to try and ensure that the policy  is sustainable in 
the longer run rather than just to the next review. 
I should make clear that all this doesnt  mean our recommended redress methodology is 
inadequate. A business can, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial 
judgement, choose  to (of its own volition)  to go over and beyond what  we might recommend 
as fair and reasonable. So, whilst a business can choose to offer redress  which  is more  
advantageous to the consumer  which isnt something we can force it to do  it cant  offer 
redress which is anything less than what wed recommend to puts things right.    
Mrs Fs policy was also subject  to indexation which is why the premium increased every 
year, regardless of whether (or not) the policy passed the review.  This is an optional feature 
thats in line with common industry practice, and not unique to the business.   
Ref: DRN49086835I note in 2006 the business agreed  (in writing) not to increase the premiums annually  after 
Mrs F complained. In other words, it agreed  not to increase the premiums every year by 
7.5%. But the policy was and is still subject  to reviews, and Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that 
the Mrs F was told the premium wouldnt continue to be reviewed or that the premium was 
fixed forever, no matter  what. So, I cant safely say that the business  mis-represented  the 
position regarding  the future of the premiums, and Mrs F will have to decide whether, or not, 
to continue with the policy. 
If, as the insurer, the business had agreed  to do this is, i.e. no longer conduct reviews,  it 
wouldve been different. But despite what Mrs F thinks, this isnt what  the business has 
agreed to do. I note that unlike indexation,  reviews arent optional and not something that 
Mrs F can opt out of.
In the circumstances the policy remains reviewable and Mrs F will need to pay the correct 
premium moving forward. Having conducted  the reviews and put money into the policy, Im 
unable to say that the business has done  anything wrong by asking her to consider 
increasing the monthly premiums from what shed been paying, in order to maintain the sum 
assured.
Having dealt with similar complaints, I think some of the information to do with the actuarial 
calculations and considerations  is more  likely  (than not) to be commercially sensitive. So, in 
the circumstances, I cant  blame the business for not openly referring to more detailed  
figures, however,  if Mrs F requires more information regarding this issue,  Im sure the 
business will be able to assist her as far as it is able. 
I appreciate Mrs F will be very unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. But on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable  to say that the 
business had misrepresented the position regarding  premium  increase or that its proposed  
redress isnt fair or reasonable. 
I realise my decision isnt what Mrs F wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im 
unable to uphold  this complaint and give her what she wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think the redress offered  by Scottish Widows Limited is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4908683