K820x#14complaint
Ms W and Ms H are unhappy because Society  of Lloyds  have  declined  a claim they made 
on their travel insurance policy. 
background
Ms W and Ms H took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy via a third party  in 
November 2017.  The cover was arranged for December 2017 to December  2018.  
They planned a trip to Australia as part of which they arranged to take a short  trip to another 
country. During this part of their trip they were travelling in a bigger group. When  they arrived 
at the gate to board  the flight  it was cancelled due to bad weather at the destination airport.  
They tried to arrange another flight but the earliest  available flight  was in a few days time. 
This meant the duration of the short trip would be reduced.  Ms W and Ms H say it was also 
going to be potentially problematic to get everyone in their group onto that flight. They also 
pointed out they were  due to return to the UK from Australia later in the week and other 
people in the group also had long haul flights to catch. So, in summary,  they thought it was 
best to abandon the short trip to make sure they were in Australia to catch their flight home. 
Ms W and Ms H had to arrange accommodation  in Australia at their own expense. They  also 
had to pay for their accommodation they hadnt used in the other country.  The airline 
refunded the cost of their flights but they made a claim  for the cost of the accommodation 
they hadnt used. 
Lloyds declined the claim on the basis that this wasnt  covered  by the policy  terms in relation  
to delayed departure  or connecting flights. Lloyds explained that because  Ms W and Ms H 
didnt continue with their planned short break there  isnt a valid claim. And they said the flight  
delay wasnt covered because it didnt relate to their final departure back to the UK. Ms W 
and Ms H say this wasnt made clear in the policy terms and they wouldnt have taken it out 
if theyd realised they wouldnt be covered for this scenario. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She acknowledged how frustrating this 
experience must have  been for Ms W and Ms H. But she didnt think Lloyds had treated  
them unfairly. She was satisfied the situation Ms W and Ms H had found themselves  in 
wasnt covered by the policy  terms. So she didnt  think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to 
decline the claim. 
Ms W and Ms H didnt agree. They explained  the way the policy was worded made it difficult 
to understand  what was covered and it ought  to be clearer. They  also said the nature of their 
trip wasnt unusual  and its not unreasonable  to expect all of their trip to be covered by the 
policy. So I need to make decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy  terms
The section of the policy in relation to travel  delay says:
Ref: DRN47488712This section does  not apply to trips within the United Kingdom (except for trips between  the 
United Kingdom  the Channel Islands  and the Isle of Man). 
We will pay either
1.the sum insured shown in the Schedule of Cover & Limits  if the departure  of the 
Public Transport on which You are booked to travel is delayed by at least  12 hours;  
or
2.up to the amount under section  1 (Cancellation  of Trip) as shown in the Schedule of 
Cover & Limits (after deduction of the Excess per Insured Person) if You abandon 
the Trip (on the Outward Journey only) after the first full 12 hours due to the delay  of 
Your outward or return flight, sea crossing, coach or train departure to or from the 
United Kingdom  for more  than 12 hours  beyond  the booked departure  time as a 
result of:
a.Strike or Industrial  Action provided  that when  Your  Policy was taken out, there 
was no reasonable expectation that the Trip would be affected by such  cause.
b.adverse weather conditions.
c.mechanical breakdown or technical  fault of the aircraft,  coach, train or sea vessel.
PLEASE NOTE: This section applies for delays  only at the final point of international 
departure point from and to the United  Kingdom.  It is hereby understood and agreed  that 
cover is extended to residents of the Isle of Man and Channel Islands travelling to mainland 
United Kingdom  with pre-booked  travel  arrangements only.
The section of the policy relating to connecting  flights says: 
We will pay
Up to the amount shown in the Schedule of Cover & Limits for Your  reasonable additional 
travel and accommodation costs (room only) You have to pay:
a.to reach  Your overseas destination
b.where You are on a multi-centre  holiday to reach  Your  next destination  as shown on 
Your travel  itinerary;  or
c.on Your return journey  Home within the United Kingdom
that You cannot  claim back from any other  source if You fail to arrive  at the departure point 
in time to board any onward connection  flight (whether overseas or in the United Kingdom) 
on which You are booked to travel  as a result  of:
1.the failure of other Public Transport; or
2.Strike or Industrial  Action or adverse weather conditions; or
3.You being involuntarily denied boarding (because there are too many  passengers  for 
the seats available) and no other  suitable alternative flight  could be provided within 
12 hours.
Ref: DRN47488713This section  goes on to say that Lloyds will not pay for claims arising directly or indirectly 
from a list of scenarios  which includes:
any accommodation costs, charges and expenses where the transport 
operator has offered  reasonable alternative travel arrangements.
any costs which  You would have expected to pay during Your Trip
scheduled flights not booked in the United Kingdom 
The policy cancellation terms only apply when  the policyholder has to necessarily and 
unavoidably cancel  before  the trip starts. And the curtailment terms only apply if theyd had 
to return to the UK early. 
has the claim been unfairly declined?
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say Lloyds  has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And they shouldnt unreasonably  reject a claim. 
I can understand Ms H and Ms Ws frustration and disappointment  as theyve had to pay a 
lot of money for accommodation  they didnt use. However,  I dont think its unreasonable  for 
Lloyds to reject their claim. I say that because:  
The policy term in relation to travel  delay only applies to travel delays at the final 
point of international departure point from and to the United  Kingdom.  The flight  
which was delayed,  and ultimately cancelled, wasnt Ms W and Ms Hs final point of 
international departure to or from the UK. So this section of the policy  doesnt  cover 
the circumstances in which Ms W and Ms H found themselves. I can also see this 
term was highlighted  by the words PLEASE  NOTE in capital letters  in the policy 
schedule.
Ms W and Ms H were offered the opportunity to continue  their trip to the other 
country. So I think the airline did offer reasonable alternative travel  arrangements. 
But Ms W and Ms H decided to stay where  they were.  I can understand why they 
made that decision, particularly because they were mindful of ensuring they were 
back in Australia to catch their flight home.  However, the policy  wording doesnt  
cover unused  accommodation. So I dont think its unreasonable for the claim to be 
declined on that basis; 
I also note the policy  terms  exclude claims arising directly or indirectly from 
scheduled flights not booked in the UK. Ive seen the booking form for the flights 
which refers to a company based in Australia.  I appreciate Ms W and Ms H arent 
claiming for the flights. But I dont think Ms W and Ms Hs claim is covered because  
the cancellation of the accommodation  they want to claim for arose as a result of the 
problem with a flight theyd booked outside  of the UK 
As Ms H and Ms W had already  left the UK, and started their trip, the cancellation 
terms dont apply.  And, as they didnt have to come back to the UK early, the 
curtailment terms also dont apply
Ref: DRN47488714Ms W and Ms H have also raised concerns  about the sale of this policy.  But the 
policy wasnt sold by Lloyds directly  as it was taken out via  a third party.  So Lloyds 
wasnt responsible  for the sale. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Ms W and Ms Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Ms W and Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 13 March  
2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4748871