K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Mapfre Asistencia, Compania  Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A.
renewed his annual travel insurance  policy automatically, without his consent.
background
Mr F took out an annual  policy with Mapfre in 2017. He says Mapfre  didnt make it clear  at 
the time that the policy would automatically renew at the end of the year unless he opted out 
of its automatic renewal  (auto-renewal)  process. In 2018  Mapfre took money from Mr Fs 
bank account  for the premium for a new policy for the next year.  Mr F said the policy  was 
mis-sold to him as he didnt want it and it didnt meet his needs. Mr F also said hed changed 
the card details he gave  Mapfre in 2017.  So he thought it must have sought  out his new card 
details. He says he had to make  many calls to Mapfre to get his concerns dealt with. He also 
says an advisor told him hed get an email confirming the policys cancellation within  ten 
minutes, but that didnt happen.
Mapfre said the 2017 policys key information section set out clearly  that Mr F had to opt out 
of annual auto-renewal. It said it hadnt  held on to Mr Fs payment details,  or sought details 
of his new card. It said it had just asked the bank that held his details to debit the new 
premium. It didnt  agree it had taken the premium  without Mr Fs consent.  But it agreed that 
he got poor service  from it when  he complained  about these  issues. It apologised and said it 
would address his concerns through training. It also offered him £50 compensation.
When Mr F complained to us, he said the final response letter  he got from Mapfre in reply  to 
his complaint was sent to the wrong  address. He said when he bought  the policy in 2017 the 
fact that auto-renewal was in place wasnt prominently displayed.  And he said he didnt get a 
reminder that auto-renewal  was about to happen in 2018. Mr F said hed changed his card 
details in 2017, yet Mapfre was still able to debit his account in 2018. He said that as a result 
he thought it had breached data protection laws.     
Our investigator thought Mapfre had acted reasonably. He said there was nothing wrong 
with auto-renewal  in itself. He thought Mr F should  have  read the 2017 policys important 
details section. The investigator thought Mapfres offer of £50 for poor service  was fair. Mr F 
then sent us further comments, but he said they werent to be shared with any other  party. 
As there was no agreement, his complaint was passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
We asked Mapfre about the policy documents it sent to Mr F. It said that in 2017  hed asked 
for them to be sent to him by email.  The final response letter  in 2018 was sent by post,  as by 
that point Mr F had asked  to be sent letters in that way. Unfortunately,  Mapfre sent it to the 
wrong address.  It apologised  for the error.  Although I can see why Mr F was upset,  I dont 
think it would  be fair to require Mapfre to pay him any extra compensation for that mistake.
Mapfre said Mr F had agreed to its terms and conditions online. It said the policy  documents  
would have been emailed to him in 2017, with a link to its online portal. Mr F hasnt  said he 
didnt get the chance  to view the documents online at the point of sale. His concern is that 
the wording about  auto-renewal wasnt prominently displayed.  But from what hes said, it 
Ref: DRN47994662looks as though he didnt check the documents at all, either online, when he got them by 
email, or at any point  until after the renewal process  went ahead  in 2018.  
I think the details  about auto-renewal in the policys key information, conditions  and 
exclusions section were  easy to find. I think it was sufficient  for Mapfre to highlight them 
there. And in my opinion it was reasonable for it to expect Mr F to read through the policys 
key details. Had he done so, I think hed simply have opted out of auto-renewal  at the time.
The policy says Mapfre will issue an auto-renewal  invitation 21 days before renewal. 
Mapfres provided an extract from its system showing Mr Fs renewal quote  for 2018 was 
generated on 8 March  2018. Its also given us a copy of the letter to him that was generated 
that day. Mapfre says the documents would have been sent to Mr F the same day by email. 
It hasnt sent us a screenshot of the email,  so I cant be sure that happened.  Mr F says he 
didnt get the email.  But that doesnt necessarily mean it wasnt  sent. 
I dont think Mr F can say the 2018  policy was mis-sold to him. He was put on notice of auto-
renewal in 2017. Mapfre thought hed got the reminder its system generated, prompting him 
to let it know if he didnt  want or need  the policy any more. And even if the reminder email 
wasnt sent, Mapfres shown that shortly  afterwards, it sent the new policy  documents to 
Mr F. At that point,  the 2017 policy was still in place. So Mr F still had time to say he didnt 
want the new policy, which is what he did. I dont  think Mr Fs shown that there  was any 
financial impact on him from the auto-renewal,  as Mapfre  promptly  refunded the premium.  
So I dont  think he lost out due to the auto-renewal  process.  
Mr F says Mapfre retained his bank details  without his consent and got hold of his new card 
details. He also says it took money  from his account without his consent.  But the note about 
auto-renewal in the 2017 policys  key information  section said Mapfre  would collect  the 
renewal payment unless  Mr F told it otherwise. But it said it wouldnt hold on to his payment 
details. Mapfre has since confirmed that it didnt. It says it uses a digital payment token 
system that doesnt  require it to store consumers payment details. I dont think  theres any 
evidence that Mapfre sought any new details about Mr Fs card.  It seems it just asked his 
bank to debit his account, which it then did. 
Mr F has queried  a note in the renewal details section that says a renewed policy  will only be 
valid if a consumers card details havent  changed. Mapfre  says the phrase was intended to 
make consumers aware that auto-renewal  isnt guaranteed. It says card issuers have 
different rules around the digital  payment token  system. It says if Mapfres  told by a bank 
that a tokens no longer active,  the policy reverts to manual  renewal. Mapfre  says it gets no 
details about why a token  isnt active or about a consumers changed card details.   
In my view, Mapfre didnt act unreasonably  in going ahead  with the auto-renewal  of 
Mr Fs policy. As far as I can see, it only used the personal details he supplied to it for the 
2017 policy. As Mr F hadnt  said he didnt want the policy  to be renewed automatically,  I 
think it was reasonable  for Mapfre to seek payment for the new policy  from his bank. The 
system Mapfre  used meant  it wouldnt have  known Mr Fs card details had changed.  And the 
decision to make the payment to Mapfre was made solely by the bank.  
We asked Mr F whether hed changed his mind about not allowing us to share  the further 
comments he gave us about his complaint. Initially he wasnt  willing  to allow it and he didnt 
respond to our further queries.  So I cant give my view on any of those comments.      
Ref: DRN47994663Mr F says in order  to ensure the new policy didnt go ahead, he had to speak to Mapfres  
advisors for around 37 minutes,  followed by a further long call. I can see that would have 
been frustrating  for him. I dont think Mapfres advisors should have said theyd email Mr F 
within ten minutes if they werent certain that would happen.  So there was some poor service  
on Mapfres part. But Mapfre accepted  that and apologised to Mr F. It undertook  to address 
the matters hed raised via training. It also offered him £50 compensation. So I think it made 
a reasonable attempt  to put matters  right.
I dont think Mr Fs been able to show that Mapfre acted unreasonably or treated him unfairly  
in relation to the renewal of his policy. If Mr F has concerns about data protection  issues, he 
may want to raise them with the office of the Information Commissioner.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4799466