K820x#14complaint
Mr C says IG Index  Limited (IG) did the following in relation to his Contracts  for Differences 
(CFD) trading account:
It approached and solicited him to open  the CFD account  contrary to regulations 
prohibiting such  action. [issue 1]
It failed to verify his level of understanding of investments at the outset and 
throughout the relationship. [issue 2] 
It issued recommendations for inexact and false investments.  [issue 3]
It misled him to believe his trading was based on Direct Market Access (DMA),  
instead it was based on IG being  the only counterparty. [issue  4]
It misled him about the characteristics of Sprint Market (SM)  trading. [issue 5]
background
Mr Cs submissions for the complaint featured regulations by, and reference to a case 
determination from, a non-UK (national) regulator.  The determination was about IG and 
about matters comparable to issue 2. The relevant part of the determination  addressed IGs 
assessment of suitability of its service(s) for potential clients.  In summary, the 
determination said:
IG was wrong, in its process, to have accepted subjective responses  from 
prospective clients about the nature  of their previous  trading experience.  Instead,  it 
should have verified  those  responses objectively and probed into relevant details.
IG was wrong, in its process, to have done  the same (or similar)  with regards to the 
frequency of the prospective clients previous trading  experience.
IG was wrong, in its process, to have done  the same (or similar)  with regards to the 
level of the prospective clients trading knowledge, experience and skill.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, she found as follows:
She said this services remit is to provide alternative dispute resolution of complaints  
within the rules of our national regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
In the above  context,  she said CFD products are available,  and can be advertised,  to 
retail clients  provided  associated risks are included in the advertisement. She 
concluded that IG did not advertise its CFD trading service  wrongly in this respect,  so 
issue 1 is not upheld.
With regards to issue 2 (and relevant to issue 3), she noted  that IG provided  an 
execution-only service.  She said the relevant obligation upon IG  under the FCAs 
rules  was to assess appropriateness  of the account for Mr C, not its suitability; that 
IG was entitled to rely upon information  given by Mr C (with regards to his past 
knowledge and experience) and it was not required to verify that information  unless it 
was incomplete, incorrect or outdated; that information presented by Mr C in the 
course of his account application in January 2014 included  reference to frequent 
trading experience in shares, derivatives (such  as warrants, futures and options), 
over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives  and leveraged products; so IGs decision that 
the account was appropriate for him was reasonable.
She considered,  overall, the complaint  in issue 4 redundant given that Mr Cs trading 
mainly took place in the SM  a CFD binary  option based  market in which  DMA was 
irrelevant. 
Ref: DRN43253782With regards to issue 5, she addressed Mr Cs specific concerns that the index used 
to set the opening price differed from the index used to set the closing price and that 
this was not declared and explained  to him at the outset of his trading. She 
acknowledged that IG had addressed a complaint by Mr C in 2015  on the issue  of 
pricing. She reflected the reasons  given  by IG in response to the present complaint  
that it used a hybrid future/cash price for the opening because  licensing restrictions  
meant it could not always use the underlying markets price feed and that it used a 
cash price feed for the closing  to ensure neutrality in that price.  She found that this 
was not disclosed  to Mr C until 2015 and that IG should have done so earlier and in a 
clear way, but evidence shows he continued  to trade  in the SM thereafter so it is 
probable he would have done the same  even with full disclosure of the pricing 
characteristics at the outset.
Mr C disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said:
There are rulings from the European Court of Justice  (ECJ) which say decisions of 
the relevant non-UK  regulator cannot be called  into question, so the regulatory 
determination he presented should apply to his case. There  is further support in this 
respect, within the rules  set by the European  Securities and Markets  Authority 
(ESMA).
According to that determination IG has committed wrongdoings in issues 1 and 2.
He did not have any trading experience in OTC derivatives.
It is wrong to conclude that because he continued trading in SM CFDs his concern 
about pricing became irrelevant. It remained relevant because the use of two 
different markets for pricing  the opening and closing of a trade essentially meant he 
was trading more  than one product and trading for more than one outcome  which is 
wrong. He continued trading after learning  about the pricing  issue only in order to 
recover his losses.
The investigator was not persuaded to change her view and the matter was referred to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator, I too begin  with reference  to the purpose  and remit of this service.  As 
she said, we provide alternative  dispute resolution. We do this for problems between  eligible 
complainants and respondent firms in the financial  services  sector.  Our purpose  and 
jurisdiction (our power to perform our function) is defined by the Financial  Services and 
Markets Act 2000 and by the FCAs Dispute  Resolution (DISP) rules. The DISP rules  are 
part of the FCAs  Handbook and in other  parts of the Handbook there are provisions for the 
regulations that authorised financial services firms must comply with. 
In the above context, this services remit is to determine disputes with reference to the FCAs 
rules and regulations   not with reference  to any other national  regulators rules, regulations 
or determinations. I do not consider  that there are ESMA provisions or ECJ rulings  which 
have the effect  of substituting the specific FCA regulations stated below. I also note that the 
investigator already  explained to Mr C that relevant ESMA guidelines have been 
incorporated into the FCAs Handbook.
Ref: DRN43253783Issues 1, 2 and 3
The FCAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS), at COBS  4.2, says a firms financial 
promotion (which includes  investment marketing)  must be  fair, clear and not misleading. 
This requires, where relevant, transparency within the promotion about matters such  as the 
risks and charges  associated with a product or service;  and requires that firms do not use 
words such as guaranteed and protected unless such words are wholly fair, clear and not 
misleading in the context  of the relevant product or service.
It does not appear  to be alleged that IGs promotion/marketing of the CFD trading account 
was misleading  to Mr C. His claim is that the account should  not have been promoted  to him 
in the first instance.  For the sake of completeness, I have not seen evidence that Mr C was 
misled by marketing for the account that breached the requirements of COBS  4.2.
The FCA is on record in declaring its view that CFDs are complex,  leveraged  derivatives. 
The same applies to its view about  the high risks in CFD trading. However, its regulations do 
not prohibit the marketing of CFDs  to retail clients. Indeed,  it was in recognition of the fact 
that CFD trading  is  typically offered to retail  customers through  online trading platforms  
(as it stated in a 2019 Policy Statement  on CFDs)  that it set about putting in place measures 
(incorporating those from ESMA) to strengthen protection for retail  customers  in terms of its 
promotion and operation.
The conclusion that follows is that, contrary to Mr Cs allegation, IG was not prohibited from 
promoting or marketing  the CFD trading account to him. I have not seen submissions that 
allege IG breached  any of the specific  regulatory requirements for promoting  or operating  
CFD trading;  and I have  not seen evidence  that this was the case.
The above  addresses issue 1. As the investigator said,  issue 2 relates to the regulators 
rules about  assessing  appropriateness of a financial product or service  for a client or 
prospective client. Mr Cs account was opened based on an execution only service, so there  
were no provisions for advice or trading recommendations  I address his allegation, in issue 
3, about recommendations separately below.
The FCAs COBS rules  apply differently for appropriateness and suitability.  The rules for the 
former apply  to an execution only service  and the rules for the latter do not apply to such a 
service because advice  does not form a part of the service  so there is no obligation  to 
ensure advice is suitable.
Appropriateness must be assessed on information, from a client  to a firm, that is used to 
determine whether  (or not) the client has sufficient knowledge and experience to understand 
the risks involved in the service or product  offered by the firm. In this respect, information 
about the type of service(s) and investment(s)  the client is familiar with is important; and the 
same applies  to information about  the nature, volume, frequency and length of the clients 
experience in the familiar service(s) and investment(s). 
COBS 10A.2.6  says  An investment firm shall be entitled to rely on the information 
provided by its clients or potential clients unless it is aware or ought to be aware that the 
information is manifestly out of date, inaccurate or incomplete.  This,  as the investigator 
explained, meant IG were  not required to probe and verify Mr Cs appropriateness 
assessment responses, unless it knew or ought  to have  known his responses were 
outdated, inaccurate or incomplete.  I have not seen evidence  that it had such knowledge  or 
Ref: DRN43253784that it ought to have  had such knowledge   so it was entitled to rely upon  the information  
presented by Mr C.
Mr C also says IG had an ongoing  responsibility to review appropriateness throughout the 
relationship. Guidance from the judgment in QUINN v IG INDEX  [2018] EWHC 2478 (Ch) 
says otherwise and says a firm does not have  an ongoing  responsibility to review 
appropriateness after a financial  product or service has been  correctly assessed to be 
appropriate at the outset.  As I address below, I consider that IG correctly assessed Mr Cs 
account to be appropriate for him at the outset. Furthermore, there appears to have been no 
material change of service thereafter which could have prompted the need for a fresh 
appropriateness assessment.
Available evidence  is that Mr C completed an online  application for the account in 2014 and 
said that, over the previous three years, he had frequently traded shares and derivatives. In 
such circumstances, and on balance,  I am not persuaded that it was unreasonable for IG to 
conclude that the account was appropriate  for him. I note his claim that he did not have 
trading experience in OTC derivatives but, in the absence of evidence that IG knew of 
reason to doubt the information  on the application form (or ought to have known of such  
reason), I consider it was entitled to rely on that information. The copy  of the online 
application form that has been  shared with this service shows he affirmed  previous 
experience in trading OTC derivatives.
With regards to issue 3, Mr Cs allegation  is that upon opening  his account he was invited to 
follow trading ideas broadcast in the news and analysis section of IGs website and on its 
YouTube channel; that no suitability  assessment  (in terms of his appetite for risk and 
objectives) was conducted prior to what he considered  a recommendation to follow the 
trading ideas; and that the relevant news and analysis was presented by people who falsely  
claimed to be investment  analysts. This is the basis for his claim about trading 
recommendations from IG.
Article 53 of the Financial  Services  and Markets  Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001  
(RAO) describes the regulated activity of advising on investments as follows:
Advising  a person  is a specified kind of activity  if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity  as an investor  or potential  investor, or in his
capacity as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or
agent)
i. buying, selling,  subscribing for or underwriting  a particular investment
which is a security or a contractually based  investment,  or
ii. exercising any right conferred by such an investment  to buy, sell,
subscribe for or underwrite such an investment.
The FCAs rules also refer to investment advice involving a personal recommendation. 
Investment advice (or a personal recommendation)  invariably has a source(s). In the present 
case, and despite evidence of IGs non-advisory execution only service for Mr Cs account, 
his argument is that IGs websites  analysts  were the source of advice and trading 
recommendations to him and that the advice was the content of the news  and analysis 
Ref: DRN43253785section of the website (and YouTube channel).  The need arises  to apply the definition of 
advice to the scenario he has presented. 
The initial conclusion is that there  is a mismatch.  The general and public nature of a website 
and/or YouTube channel  defeats  the notion  of a personal recommendation. It is perhaps  
arguable that expressing information in a public way could still, and sometimes,  equate to 
investment advice. Guidance from the FCA says this might be so where the overall 
circumstances in which information is expressed  gives the expression the force  of a 
recommendation. I am not persuaded that the news and analysis section of IGs website  or 
its YouTube channel  expressed  trading information with the force of a recommendation. Mr 
C had an execution only account and I do not consider that any investment advice took 
place to conflict with that, so it follows  that the claim under issue 3 falls away.
Issue 4
It is Mr Cs evidence that between February 2014 and September  2015  he traded exclusively 
or mainly in the SM (around 1,800 trades, he says). Pricing in the SM is a matter that 
features in issue 5. However, it is also relevant to consideration of issue 4  that is, Mr Cs 
allegation that he was misled by IG about  DMA. 
DMA relates to clients placing trades  with access to pricing, for opening and closing those 
trades, directly from the relevant underlying market  as opposed  to pricing  determined  by a 
market making counterparty firm. I agree with the investigators finding that this means the 
complaint in issue 4 is redundant,  because  DMA was not, and could not have been, relevant  
to the trades Mr C engaged in. His allegation about IGs misrepresentation of a DMA service 
does not appear  to be relevant to the trading he conducted or the losses he has claimed  for.
To illustrate  this, I summarise the workings of the SM trades as follows:
Trading in the SM would begin with selection of a market; then the client  considers 
the current level of that market  and decides  the time period over which  to trade  (no 
less than 60 seconds and no more than an hour); then the client speculates on 
whether the level of the selected  market will be higher  or lower at the end of that time 
period (the deadline);  then the client decides  how much  to put at stake in the trade 
(the premium);  and then the client executes the trade based  on the selected market  
and on all the aforementioned decisions (and speculation). 
The clients maximum loss, if the market level at the deadline goes against the 
speculation, is the premium and the client makes a profit if the market level at the 
deadline matches the speculation.
Below, I address  the how the market  levels (or prices) for the SM trades  were  set. As far as 
is relevant to issue 4, the point to note is that these trades  were  not dependent on achieving 
specific opening and closing prices, hence  the conclusion that trading with DMA was not 
directly relevant to them.
Issue 5
As stated above, and as the investigator  established, IG sometimes used a cash/future 
hybrid price  for the opening levels Mr C would have  seen  for his SM trades  it has 
explained that this happened sometimes because it could not always use the price feed from 
the relevant underlying market. Then it used a cash  price  feed for the closing levels. IGs 
response to Mr Cs March 2015 complaint appears to have  been  the source of notice to him 
Ref: DRN43253786about this and he says he was previously  unaware  because this pricing information was not 
available in the general terms for the account.
The 2015  complaint was of a specific nature, about a particular trade and about a dispute  
between Mr Cs position that a tick movement (in his favour)  of the relevant  market level 
milliseconds after the deadline should apply and IGs position that it is the last tick movement 
before the deadline (which was against  Mr Cs trade) that applied.  The present  complaint is 
about Mr Cs claim  that the pricing method summarised above creates a disadvantage and 
means different  markets  and different products essentially (and wrongly)  exist in a single  SM 
trade. 
The selected  market,  in an SM trade,  remains  the same (and single) market that is being 
traded, regardless of the aforementioned pricing method. As such, I do not consider  that 
different products featured  in a single  SM trade.  
The pricing method  features different price feeds/sources for the opening and closing levels. 
This is the key point.  In this respect,  I can understand Mr Cs argument about different 
markets  because  pricing determines a market, so different pricing basis  suggest different 
markets. 
The investigator probed into the possibility of clients being put at a disadvantage as a result 
of this. She queried  a scenario in which, for example, an SM trade  speculated a higher  level 
at the deadline, based on the hybrid opening level (the strike); and then the cash closing 
level at the deadline is higher than what the cash level was at the opening but lower than the 
strike. She asked IG if the trade would be successful because  the market level went  higher 
as speculated  or unsuccessful  because the cash closing level was not higher than the strike. 
She considered that if the latter, there could be potential unfairness in terms of the trade  
being unsuccessful  despite the client correctly speculating an increase in the market level.
IG confirmed that the trade would be unsuccessful because the speculation was based on 
the strike,  so the closing level had to be higher  than the strike in order for the trade to be 
successful. It explained  that even though the strike  would be a hybrid  it would not be remote 
to the cash level and it would be set to replicate the cash level as closely as possible;  so the 
difference would  be notably smaller  than the scenario assumes. It highlighted that whilst it is 
possible for a trade to be unsuccessful where  the movement speculation was correct but the 
cash price did not move  in the relevant direction enough  to be higher or lower than the 
hybrid strike,  there  is balance and fairness  in the fact that a trade in which the movement 
speculation was wrong could in turn be successful for the same reason  for example, where 
speculation of lower movement is defeated by higher movement in the market, but such 
movement was not enough to go higher  than the strike so the trade  would nevertheless be 
successful because the closing was not higher than the strike.
Overall and on balance,  I agree  with the investigators finding that more explanation about 
how the above pricing method worked should  have  been volunteered and available  to Mr C 
at the outset. I do not consider that IG misled him  I have not seen evidence  of this  but I 
accept that until his complaint in March 2015  he was not informed about the details of the 
different pricing  sources as he should  have been. However, like the investigator  I too note 
that he continued to trade  in the SM after March 2015. Furthermore, and importantly, I am 
also not persuaded that the pricing  method created the disadvantage  that he claims, 
especially following knowledge about how it worked.  
Ref: DRN43253787The workings of the SM trades were clearly  based on the strike, this was not concealed.    
Mr C knew that his speculation above  or below the strike was what his trade  was about. I 
accept that in the above method the market  that determined the strike was not the same as 
the market that determined  the closing  so the former was not the market  that determined  
whether (or not) the trade was successful. 
However, evidence  is that this did not happen  every  time; that when it happened  the market  
for the strike  remained  a derivative of the market for the closing, so correlation existed 
between both; and that the balanced  effects described by IG offset  the disadvantage that the 
investigator enquired  into. SM trading appears to have been a form of derivatives trading, so 
pricing in this manner  is arguably reflective  of such a form of trading and would not have 
been odd in this context.  In addition, with knowledge  of how the pricing worked I consider 
that Mr C was subsequently put into a position of making informed decisions with each and 
every trade.
Overall, on the balance of available evidence  and for the above reasons, I am not persuaded 
to uphold Mr Cs claim under issue 5.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 March  2021.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4325378