K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a sum of money - £850  that Mrs N paid to 1ST CHOICE 
MORTGAGE SOLUTIONS LIMITED in order to obtain a mortgage. Mrs N says the lender 
rejected her application  through  no fault of hers, leaving her out of pocket.
background
For reasons Ill get to, we only have Mrs Ns version  of what happened to cause her to 
complain. She asked  1ST for help in sourcing a mortgage; she paid the business  £850 by 
bank transfer  on 12 May 2017, but never got a mortgage. It seems a lender was 
approached, and was interested in lending to her but then changed its mind.
When Mrs N asked 1ST for her money  back,  the business messaged  her to say it had 
passed the money to an accountant  in order to obtain faked proof  of income to support the 
application, but the accountants fraudulent activity had been uncovered. 1STs proprietor 
said she was trying to get the money  back from the accountant,  but having  difficulty.
The exchange of messages continued  with Mrs N saying she had no knowledge of an 
attempt to produce fraudulent proof  of income. The proprietor  then said she had messages 
showing it had all been discussed with Mrs N and if she made a complaint to us, shed be 
opening herself up an accusation of fraud.  
Mrs N nonetheless, did complain to us, and provided us with the exchanges of messages 
that allowed  me to piece  together  the above  summary (including the one from 1ST accusing 
her of collusion in the fraud).
When we began to look into the complaint, 1ST ignored every attempt on our part to get its 
side of the story. Eventually, after weeks of reminders and prompts, the adjudicator  issued a 
view on 10 May 2019  recommending 1ST refund the £850  and pay Mrs N £150 
compensation. Again, 1ST ignored  the adjudicator and despite him sending  reminders,  didnt 
respond. 
The adjudicator had no option but to refer the case for review by an ombudsman. He let both 
parties know he was doing  that, and 1STs proprietor  did reply, briefly,  to say shed been  
pre-occupied with a family bereavement  and did intend to respond substantively.  That was 
on 4 June 2019, since when weve heard nothing further from her. Overall fairness requires 
that this case be determined without any more delay
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is an unusual case, in that the party complained against has quite openly admitted in 
correspondence with the consumer to having attempted  to obtain a mortgage  fraudulently.  
Thats not something we expect to see, and it immediately  puts the business somewhat on 
the back foot as far as our consideration of the case is concerned.  Its difficult for me to 
reach any other conclusion that that 1ST has done something wrong in taking Mrs Ns £850 
in the circumstances its admitted to.
Ref: DRN44265482But what  of 1STs assertion that Mrs N knew what  it was doing in her name? If true, it 
wouldnt help Mrs N; as a starting point, we expect consumers to come  to us with clean 
hands, and if the evidence  suggests  they havent  then we generally wont make an award 
that allows them to gain from any untoward behaviour.
Here, the only evidence to suggest  Mrs N colluded in the fraud  is the message to her from 
1STs proprietor effectively warning  her off bringing the complaint to us. Despite that, Mrs N 
did bring the complaint to us, and she also made  a point of showing us the message from 
1ST claiming to have  proof of her collusion.  
My remit, when  determining a complaint, is to consider the available evidence  and decide  
what I think is most likely  to have happened on the balance  of probabilities. Insofar  as Mrs N 
ignored the implied threat of proof  of her involvement, and given that 1ST has had ample  
time to send  us that proof and hasnt done  so, I think on balance that it doesnt exist.
But it any event, the outcome  of the complaint doesnt turn on that point. In the absence of 
any point-of-sale documentation  setting  out the terms  of any agreement  between the parties, 
theres nothing to say that Mrs N is liable to pay 1ST any money; the money she had paid 
must therefore be returned.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. In full and 
final settlement, I direct  1ST CHOICE  MORTGAGE SOLUTIONS LIMITED to pay Mrs N 
£1,000, made up as follows:
£850 in refund of the money she paid it in May 2017; and
£150, to compensate her for lost interest on that money, and for the trouble and upset 
shes been put to.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4426548