K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a credit card in 1996. Mrs F says Northern Bank Limited (Northern Bank) mis-sold 
her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Northern Bank  made  it clear  that Mrs F didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this. Ive seen 
a copy of the application form. This had a separate section for PPI. The box to take PPI 
would have needed to be ticked before PPI could be applied to the account.  I note that 
the box to take PPI was ticked and Mrs F signed this form.
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mrs F so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Northern Bank gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But Northern Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F because: 
When the policy was sold, Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have  told Mrs F about that. Because  
Northern Bank didnt tell Mrs F, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Bank  has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share  that was above  50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs F has said - including what  she has said about not being 
given information  about PPI. But these  points dont change my decision for the reasons 
already set out. I have also taken into account Mrs Fs existing repayment provisions. 
However, the PPI would have paid out in addition to her employee sick pay and it would also 
have paid out if she lost her job so I dont think better information about the costs and 
benefits would have changed her mind about PPI.
Ref: DRN48153332what the Northern Bank Limited  needs to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Mrs F any commission  and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Northern Bank  should also pay back to Mrs F any extra 
interest she paid because of that.
Northern Bank should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs F the difference 
between what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Northern Bank should also pay Mrs F 8%* 
simple interest if Mrs F paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs F can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Mrs F any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4815333