K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about the investment advice they were  given, and the charges made, 
by Pace  Ward Financial Solutions  Limited (Pace Ward).
background
Mr and Mrs F received investment advice from Pace Ward for a number of years,  starting 
in 2013. Their complaint is about  several investments they were advised to make between  
2013 and 2017. In making their complaint, Mr and Mrs F are represented by their son and 
daughter.
Mr and Mrs F complain  they were advised to surrender investments they held and then 
make similar investments  in quick succession.  They say their adviser  took advantage of their 
long term relationship for financial  advantage  by making regular changes to their investment 
holdings. They say they werent provided with supporting documents at the time and werent  
advised of the consequences of surrendering their existing investments or the risks of the 
new investments. Theyve also said the charges and costs werent explained. 
Mr and Mrs F say theyve  suffered financial disadvantage as a result  of Pace Wards advice 
as well as distress. They think Pace Ward  should  compensate them and want  their funds  
moved back to where they were invested.  
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and didnt think Pace  Ward had done  
anything wrong. She thought Pace Wards  advice  had been suitable  and Mr and Mrs F had 
been made aware of the risks and costs of the investments recommended  to them. 
Mr and Mrs F disagreed with our investigator  and asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
my provisional decision
I gave my provisional decision in March  2020.
For each of the investments that Mr and Mrs F complained about,  Pace  Ward provided  a 
copy of a suitability  letter and other  supporting documents.  Mr and Mrs F said they hadnt 
received all the letters at the time and so they werent given  important information  about their 
investments.
I accepted it was possible that Mr and Mrs F didnt receive the suitability letters at the time. 
But Mr and Mrs F said they met their adviser regularly and the letters appeared to reflect 
discussions theyd had. On balance I thought it was most likely the suitability letters  would 
have been sent to Mr and Mrs F at the time, but they no longer  held copies. 
So for each of the investments complained about,  I was satisfied that the adviser met 
Mr and Mrs F and sent them a suitability letter. I looked at the investments in turn to 
determine whether  in each case I thought Mr and Mrs F were given suitable advice.
June 2013  surrender of CMI bond and investment with 7IM
Mr F held a CMI bond, with about  £135,000 invested across a range  of funds and cash.  
Ref: DRN40691782The suitability letter said Mr F told the adviser his objective was to have his funds  actively 
managed. He intended to distribute the funds to his family at various points in the future and 
that would  require careful planning. 
The adviser looked at the individual funds Mr Fs money was invested  in through  his CMI 
bond. He said Mr F could retain his CMI bond  but switch to other funds. But he 
recommended that Mr Fs money  be moved  to 7IM, with a discretionary fund manager who 
would be able to offer a more consistent approach  to his investments. Pace  Ward  would 
continue to provide  ongoing financial planning  advice.
The adviser said Mr Fs portfolio would  be bespoke to him and could  include  a wider range 
of assets than the CMI bond. It would  be actively managed on a day to day basis in line with 
his attitude to risk, which was medium/balanced. The suitability letter also set out the 
potential risks of the investment.
The adviser said Mr Fs CMI bond  had high charges in comparison to other investments, 
but it wasnt possible to make accurate comparisons with the option he was recommending.
I looked at the information  on charges given in the suitability letter. Although  it wasnt  
possible to make direct comparisons,  I thought the ongoing costs  of the two investments 
were broadly  similar. 
In addition, Pace Ward charged Mr F an advice  fee of 3%, and an ongoing annual 
management and advice fee of 0.25%. These  fees were  clearly  set out in the suitability letter 
sent to Mr F. 
    
On balance, I thought Pace Wards  recommendation was suitable for Mr F. His objective  
was to have his funds actively managed and receive  ongoing  financial planning advice. 
The recommendation met that objective  and offered something different to his existing 
investment. The ongoing  fees were similar to Mr Fs existing bond and the fees to be paid to 
Pace Ward were clearly explained  to him. So I didnt think Pace Ward had done anything 
wrong in making  this recommendation to Mr F. 
December 2014   surrender of SJP unit trust and investment with 7IM 
Mr F had about £336,000  invested in a St Jamess  Place (SJP) unit trust account that hed 
held since 2012.  Mr Fs money was mostly  invested  in a range of SJP portfolios or funds in 
line with his medium attitude to risk. 
The suitability letter said Mr F told the adviser his objective was to have his funds  actively 
managed on a professional basis. Pace  Ward said he wanted a more  consistent approach  to 
his investments and had some funds with 7IM since 2013 (as discussed above). 
Mr F and his adviser initially discussed encashing £200,000 from his unit trust account. 
But Pace Ward then recommended that Mr F fully encash the account  and move his funds to 
a 7IM balanced portfolio, with a discretionary fund manager. 
The adviser said Mr Fs portfolio would  be bespoke to him and could  include  a wider range 
of assets. It would be actively managed on a day to day basis  in line with his attitude to risk, 
which was medium/balanced. The suitability letter also set out the potential  risks of the 
investment. 
Ref: DRN40691783The suitability letter said Mr Fs unit trust had high charges in comparison to other 
investments, but it wasnt possible  to make accurate comparisons with the option  the adviser 
was recommending.
I looked at the information  on charges given in the suitability letter. The SJP unit trust had a 
quarterly charge of £121.50 and the various  funds had an average charge of 1.81% pa. 
The 7IM service had an annual management  fee of 1%, and some  of the funds had an 
underlying charge of 0.3% to 0.4%.  So the annual fees Mr and Mrs F paid to 7IM would be 
lower than those paid to SJP. 
In addition, Pace Ward charged an advice fee of 2.5% and an ongoing annual  charge of 
0.5% as part of their ongoing service agreement. These fees were  set out clearly in the 
suitability letter sent to Mr F, and he signed  a separate letter agreeing to the advice fee. 
Overall, I thought Pace Wards recommendation was suitable for Mr F. It was in line with his 
objective of having his funds actively managed.  And I thought it was reasonable to bring 
together these  assets with the funds Mr F already held with 7IM. Taking account of 
Pace Wards  annual  charge, the ongoing fees were broadly similar to Mr Fs existing 
investment. And Pace Wards  initial advice fee was clearly  explained  to Mr F. So I didnt 
think Pace Ward had done anything wrong  in making this recommendation to Mr F. 
Mr and Mrs F said the adviser didnt take account of the initial  fee that had been paid to SJP 
in 2012. But that fee had been paid at the time and Pace Ward were looking at what was a 
suitable investment  for Mr F when they gave their advice in 2014. So that didnt change  my 
decision on this investment. 
Mr and Mrs F also said the suitability letter was signed by an adviser  they hadnt met. 
In response, Pace Ward said Mr and Mrs F met that adviser a number of times  and the 
suitability letter records the advice they were  given. I couldnt be sure which  adviser Mr and 
Mrs F met on each occasion,  but I thought the suitability letter reflected the advice they were  
given by Pace Ward. So the name of the adviser who signed  the letter didnt change my 
decision on this investment.
July 2015  surrender of Aviva bond and investment in BM portfolio 
Mr and Mrs F held an Aviva bond that theyd taken out in 2007. In 2015 it was valued at 
about £71,000, which was spread across a range  of Aviva funds. 
The suitability letter said Mr and Mrs F met Pace  Ward to review the Aviva bond  with a view 
to rebasing the funds  if appropriate. It said the annual  charges for Mr and Mrs Fs existing 
funds were high and that would remain the case even if they retained the bond but switched 
to other  Aviva  funds.  
Mr and Mrs F wanted to continue investing their funds for a minimum of 5-10 years. 
They wanted  a combination of both income and growth from their investment. Their attitude 
to risk was assessed at the lowest medium level. 
The adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs F encash the Aviva bond and reinvest the funds 
in the Brooks  Macdonald  (BM) managed portfolio service. Their portfolio would be managed  
on a discretionary basis with a mix of low risk (defensive income) and low to medium  risk 
(growth) investments.  
Ref: DRN40691784The Aviva bond  had an average annual  management charge of 1.77%. Mr and Mrs F were  
also charged fund commission of 0.5% each year. The Brooks Macdonald  portfolio service  
had an annual charge of 0.9%. 
Pace Ward also charged Mr and Mrs F a 2% advice  fee and an annual  charge of 0.75%. 
The charges  were made clear to Mr and Mrs F in the suitability report. 
The annual cost to Mr and Mrs F of the BM portfolio  would therefore be lower  than the Aviva  
bond. But it would likely  be a few years before the money they saved recouped  the 2% 
advice fee they were  charged by Pace Ward.  
Id only seen limited  information  on the Aviva funds that Mr and Mrs Fs money  was invested 
in. But Id not seen anything to suggest the adviser  thought those funds unsuitable in terms 
of the level of risk Mr and Mrs F were prepared to take. 
Based on what Id seen,  I wasnt persuaded the BM portfolio offered Mr and Mrs F a very 
different investment from the Aviva  bond.  I thought both investments met Mr and Mrs Fs 
objectives and were in line with their attitude  to risk. But the annual fees of the BM portfolio 
were significantly  lower.  And, given that Mr and Mrs F were planning to invest for a minimum 
of 5-10 years,  I thought  that would have been of significant benefit to them  even allowing 
for the initial advice  fee charged  by Pace  Ward.  
Overall, I thought this was a suitable  investment for Mr and Mrs F. And I didnt think  
Pace Ward did anything  wrong in making  this recommendation.
June 2017 - surrender of SJP Bond and investment  in BM portfolio
Mr and Mrs F had held an SJP investment bond since  2008.  In 2017 it was valued at about  
£165,000. Id not seen  detailed information on their holdings, but it appeared Mr and Mrs Fs 
funds were held across a range of asset classes. 
Pace Wards  suitability  letter in June 2017 said Mr and Mrs Fs objective  was to withdraw 
£40-50,000 from their investments  to make gifts to their grandchildren. The adviser 
recommended the best option  was to release money from the SJP bond as Mr and Mrs Fs 
other investments were relatively new and the bond had benefitted from a few years profit. 
The adviser went on to recommend  that Mr and Mrs F fully encash the bond and reinvest 
what was left after the gift (about £120,000). The suitability letter said Mr and Mrs F were  
looking for an investment  to increase  their capital and provide an income. 
The adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs F invest their funds in a bespoke portfolio 
service with BM. He said this would be a discretionary  managed  service  with a broad  range 
of investments from a number of asset classes and geographies. The portfolio would be 
managed on a low to medium risk basis, with the aim of generating  income and growth over 
the longer term.  Mr and Mrs Fs exposure to equities  would be up to a maximum of about 
50%. 
The adviser also recommended  that Mr and Mrs F convert their existing managed portfolio 
with BM (worth about £76,000) into the same  service.  
 
Mr and Mrs F didnt  have  to pay any charges for encashing the SJP bond.  The total annual 
management charges  for the BM service  were very slightly lower  than the SJP bond  
Ref: DRN40691785(approximately 1.79% compared to 1.89%). Pace Ward charged Mr and Mrs F a set up fee 
of £2,500, and an ongoing annual charge in line with their service  agreement.
Based on what Id seen,  I thought it was reasonable for Pace Ward to recommend that 
Mr and Mrs F make their withdrawal from the SJP bond. But I wasnt  persuaded it was 
necessary for them to move their remaining funds from SJP to BM in order to achieve their 
investment objectives.  
Although the BM portfolio offered a discretionary management service, Id not seen any 
evidence that Mr and Mrs F wanted  these  funds to be more actively  managed.  
Their objective  was to make  a gift to their grandchildren. I wasnt persuaded that the 
investment recommended  to Mr and Mrs F offered them something they wanted, or that was 
sufficiently different from the bond they already  held.  And the reduction in annual fees was 
very small  when set against  the initial fee that Mr and Mrs F would have to pay Pace Ward. 
Overall, I wasnt persuaded that this was a suitable investment for Mr and Mrs F.
November 2017   switch of ISAs  from SJP to Prudential
Both Mr and Mrs F held ISAs worth  about  £81,000 with SJP. Theyd opened  the ISAs  about 
a year before and been charged an initial 5% set up fee. Their  funds were  invested in a 
cautious portfolio,  made up of a mix of equities  and fixed interest securities. 
Pace Wards  suitability  letters in October  2017  said Mr and Mrs Fs objective was to review 
their SJP ISA. The letter  said Mr and Mrs F werent  happy with the risk the SJP ISA carried.  
Although it was invested in a cautious portfolio,  Mr and Mrs F had previously held the funds 
in cash. 
The adviser assessed Mr and Mrs Fs attitude  to risk as lowest medium.  They were happy 
with a small degree of risk but wanted to invest in something more stable. 
The adviser looked at different options and recommended the Prudential  ISA. He said 
Mr and Mrs Fs money would be spread across four different funds, described as a mix of 
cautious and growth.  The ISA was designed to provide  a more stable rate of growth than 
other options by a smoothing process.
The suitability letter compared  the charges of the SJP and Prudential  ISAs. It said the SJP 
ISA had a set up fee of 5%, and an ongoing  management charge of about 1.62% when 
averaged across the different  funds. The Prudential ISA had a set up fee of 1.5% and an 
ongoing management charge of 1.35%.
Mr and Mrs F would  also pay Pace Ward  a charge of 1.5%  for setting up each Prudential 
ISA. And the letter said Pace Ward would reduce their ongoing adviser charge for the ISA 
to 0.6%.
Mr and Mrs Fs objective was to review their SJP ISAs. But from what Id seen, their funds 
were invested in cautious portfolio, which matched their attitude to risk. And when Mr and 
Mrs Fs ISAs were  moved to Prudential, they were  invested in funds that were a mix of 
cautious and growth.  
Ref: DRN40691786Overall, I wasnt persuaded that the ISAs  recommended to Mr and Mrs F offered them  
something sufficiently different from the ISAs they already held. And taking into account the 
set up fee for the ISAs,  I didnt  think  it was a suitable  recommendation for Mr and Mrs F.  
summary
My provisional decision was to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaints about  the investments they 
were advised to make in June and November 2017.  I set out what I thought would be fair 
compensation, aiming to put Mr and Mrs F as close to the position they would probably be in 
if they hadnt been given  unsuitable advice. I was minded not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Fs 
complaints about  the other  investments they were advised to make.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr and Mrs F disagree with my provisional  decision not to uphold their complaints  about 
three of the investments  they were advised to make. They maintain they never received the 
suitability letters from Pace Ward  and say some were not even prepared by the person they 
believed was providing the advice.  They didnt provide any further  evidence  in support of 
their complaint. 
Pace Ward disagree with my provisional  decision to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaints about  
the investments  they were advised to make in June and November 2017. Ive considered  
what theyve said in my findings  below.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No further evidence has been  provided  in relation to the investments Mr and Mrs F were 
advised to make in June  2013, December 2014  and July 2015. My conclusions here remain  
the same  as in my provisional decision. I wont therefore be upholding Mr and Mrs Fs 
complaints about  those  investments.
June 2017 - surrender of SJP Bond and investment  in BM portfolio
In my provisional decision I said I wasnt persuaded that the BM portfolio recommended to 
Mr and Mrs F offered them something they wanted, or that was sufficiently different from the 
bond they already held.
Pace Ward have said the BM portfolio did offer something different. They say Mr and Mrs Fs 
existing bond  was underperforming and the BM portfolio offered access to a wider  range of 
funds and investments.  Pace Ward have said the BM portfolio also provided  significantly 
more management  services - including  automatic  rebalancing of the portfolio and 
management of tax issues  and required less paperwork. And Mr and Mrs F had existing 
BM investments so consolidating their investments  would have saved  them time in 
managing their holdings.  
Pace Ward have also said the ongoing  fund charges  were  slightly  less for the BM portfolio,  
so Mr and Mrs F would benefit in the long term and the initial charge would be saved over 
the investment  period. And there  would  have been  scope to streamline  further the fund 
manager charges  over time.
Ref: DRN40691787Ive considered everything that Pace Ward  have  said but my decision on this investment 
remains the same. Mr and Mrs F wanted to withdraw funds from their SJP bond to make  
gifts to their grandchildren. Ive not seen evidence they were unhappy with the range of 
funds offered by their existing investment, its performance or its management.   
 
Pace Ward accept the ongoing  charges of the BM portfolio were only very slightly lower 
(approximately 1.79% compared to 1.89%). Pace Ward charged Mr and Mrs F a set up fee 
of £2,500. As I said in my provisional decision,  it would have taken a long time before  the 
small savings in the ongoing portfolio charges recouped the set up fee. And Mr and Mrs F 
also had to pay an ongoing annual charge to Pace Ward in line with their service agreement.
Overall, Im not persuaded it was necessary  for Mr and Mrs F to move their funds from SJP 
to BM in order to achieve  their investment  objectives. So I dont think  it was a suitable 
investment for Mr and Mrs F. 
November 2017   switch of ISAs  from SJP to Prudential
In my provisional decision I said I wasnt persuaded that the ISAs recommended  to Mr and 
Mrs F offered them something  sufficiently  different from the ISAs they already held. 
And taking  into account the set up fee, I didnt think it was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs F.  
Pace Ward have said I need to consider the background  to the recommendation they made.  
Mr and Mrs Fs funds  had been held in cash  ISAs  until about a year before when they were  
transferred to the SJP ISA. The SJP ISAs  were invested in a cautious  portfolio, made up of a 
mix of equities and fixed interest securities.  Mr and Mrs F had been charged  a 5% set up fee 
by SJP.
Pace Ward say Mr and Mrs F shouldnt have been advised to invest in the SJP ISAs  in the 
first place. They think their own recommendation was suitable because  it moved  Mr and 
Mrs Fs funds into a less volatile ISA to help address some of the damage done by the 
advice to open the SJP ISAs a year before. 
Pace Ward have said that although the SJP ISAs were  invested in a cautious portfolio, 
Mr and Mrs F were  concerned about volatility given the number of other  investments they 
held. They didnt  want to return  the funds to a cash ISA because of the high fee theyd been 
charged but were  looking for an alternative  ISA to provide more stable growth. Pace Ward 
say that Mr and Mrs F accepted there  would need  to be an initial  set up fee if they 
transferred to another ISA, but this would  be counteracted in the long term by them being 
invested in a more suitable  product.
Pace Ward say they recommended to Mr and Mrs F a mix of two Prudential Funds (growth  
and cautious) which had a smoothing mechanism designed to provide a steadier  return  and 
remove a lot of the spikes  associated with market volatility. They  say the funds have 
produced a more  stable  return over the last three  years and would continue to do so. 
And therefore, they did offer something significantly different to Mr and Mrs F.
Ive considered carefully what Pace  Ward have said. 
Pace Ward say I should investigate whether Mr and Mrs F should have been advised  to 
invest in the SJP ISAs  in the first place. I cant do that in this decision as the 
Ref: DRN40691788recommendation was made by another business and Mr and Mrs F havent complained 
about it. Im looking at whether the recommendation Pace Ward made in November 2017 
was suitable, given Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances at the time.  
Pace Ward say the recommendation was suitable  because it moved Mr and Mrs Fs funds 
into a less volatile  ISA. I note that the suitability  letters from October 2017 said Mr and 
Mrs F were unhappy with risk the SJP ISAs  carried. Although they were invested  in a 
cautious portfolio,  Mr and Mrs F had previously held the funds in cash. They  were  happy 
with a small degree of risk but wanted to invest in something more stable.
The adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs F move their funds to the Prudential  ISA. 
On page 2 of the suitability letters he explained that the main  reasons for his 
recommendation were  costs and the smoothing  mechanism offered  by Prudential. 
On costs, the adviser compared the charges  of the SJP and Prudential ISAs. The SJP ISA 
had a set up fee of 5%, and an ongoing management charge of about 1.62%  when  
averaged across the different  funds. The Prudential ISA had a set up fee of 1.5% and an 
ongoing management charge of 1.35%.
Although it might have  been helpful  for Mr and Mrs F to see the comparison of set up fees, 
they had already paid the SJP fee. So the Prudential ISAs offered  them  a lower  ongoing 
management charge  but required another set up fee. In addition, Mr and Mrs F would pay 
Pace Ward a charge  of 1.5% for setting up each Prudential ISA, and an ongoing charge of 
0.6%.
I can see that the smoothing  process  offered by the Prudential ISA was designed to provide 
a steadier rate of return, and Mr and Mrs F had requested  more  stability.  But I note the 
adviser didnt refer to the level of risk in giving the main reasons for his recommendation. He 
had assessed  Mr and Mrs Fs attitude  to risk as lowest medium. And although  its difficult  to 
make direct comparisons, it seems the investment he recommended  carried broadly the 
same level of risk as Mr and Mrs Fs existing  ISAs.
Overall, Ive not seen  enough to say Pace Ward made a suitable recommendation to Mr and 
Mrs F. The adviser recommended  they move their funds  from an ISA that matched their 
attitude to risk to another that carried broadly the same level of risk. Although the new ISA 
might have produced  a more stable rate of return, Im not persuaded it offered Mr and Mrs F 
something sufficiently different to justify moving  their funds and incurring the set up fees 
involved. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr and Mrs F as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable  advice. And I note that Mr and Mrs F have said theyd like to move their 
funds back to where they were previously invested.  
June 2017 - surrender of SJP Bond and investment  in BM portfolio
Pace Ward should  compare the performance of the funds Mr and Mrs F invested in their BM 
portfolio (which Mr and Mrs F have agreed  to provide information on) with how they would 
have performed if theyd  remained in the SJP Bond. If the SJP Bond has performed better, 
Ref: DRN40691789Pace Ward should  pay the difference between the two. If the BM portfolio has performed 
better, no compensation is payable. 
In assessing how the funds would  have performed in the SJP Bond, any withdrawal, income  
or other payment out of the investment should be deducted at the point  it was actually paid 
so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point  on. If there are a large  
number of regular  payments,  to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Pace  Ward  totals  all 
those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Pace Ward should  also repay the adviser fees they received  in relation to this investment 
together with simple  interest at 8% a year, from the date the fees were paid to the date of the 
settlement. If the above comparison shows that no compensation is payable, the difference 
between the two investments can be offset  against  the fees with interest.
Mr and Mrs F should tell Pace  Ward within thirty days  of accepting my decision if they will be 
moving their funds back to the SJP Bond. If Mr and Mrs F decide to do so, Pace Ward 
should pay any set up charges incurred. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
November 2017   switch of ISAs  from SJP to Prudential
Pace Ward should  compare the performance of the funds Mr and Mrs F invested in their 
Prudential ISAs with how they would have  performed if theyd remained in their SJP ISAs.  
If the SJP ISAs have  performed better, Pace Ward should pay the difference between  the 
two. If the Prudential ISAs  have  performed  better,  no compensation is payable.  
Pace Ward should  also repay the adviser fees they received  in relation to the Prudential 
ISAs together  with simple interest at 8% a year, from the date the fees were paid to the date 
of the settlement. If the above comparison shows that no compensation is payable, the 
difference between  the two investments can be offset against the fees with interest.
Mr and Mrs F should tell Pace  Ward within thirty days  of accepting my decision if they will be 
moving their funds back to SJP ISAs. If Mr and Mrs F decide  to do so, Pace Ward should 
pay any set up charges incurred.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold in part Mr and Mrs Fs 
complaint against  Pace Ward Financial Solutions  Limited.  
Pace Ward should  put things right in the way Ive set out above. They should provide Mr and 
Mrs F with details  of their calculations in a clear, simple format.  
Ref: DRN406917810Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 October  2020.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4069178