K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs F say Cumberland Building Society (CBS) mis-sold them the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case.
The PPI covered Mr F only so I have  mainly considered his circumstances at the time.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
CBS had to make Mr and Mrs F aware  the PPI was optional and gain their consent before 
adding it to their mortgage.  Mr and Mrs F have  told us they were told the PPI was a 
compulsory part of their mortgage. I cant be certain what was said at the time the PPI was 
sold but CBS has provided a copy  of the available paperwork. An application  form separate  
to the mortgage  application was completed and then signed by Mr F to take the PPI. With 
this in mind I think Mr and Mrs F would have know the policy  was separate to their mortgage. 
I also think that CBS made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs F didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
Mr F chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why they may not remember this now.
CBS recommended the PPI to Mr F so it had to check that the PPI was right for him and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover. So I think the policy was right for him.
Mr F was the only person  covered  by the PPI so it wouldnt have paid out if Mrs F had a 
need to claim. I have  thought about  this, but the policy would have cost the same whether 
the policy covered  Mr F only or if the benefit  was split between  them.  As a claim hasnt been 
made against the policy Mr and Mrs F havent  lost out financially because of this, so this 
doesnt change  my decision.
Its possible the information CBS gave Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  Mr F chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for Mr and Mrs F if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Mr F off taking out the cover. 
Which means CBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
But CBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F because: 
CBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs F about that. Because CBS didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs F, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN41417532To put that right, CBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs F has said,  but these points dont change my 
decision.
what the business needs to do
CBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. CBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs F any extra interest 
they paid because of that.
CBS should pay back to Mr and Mrs F the extra  they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. CBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs F 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs F can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Cumberland Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs F.
But Cumberland Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs F any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4141753