K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) have handled her car 
insurance claim.
background
Miss M called esure on 19 March  to tell them shed been involved in an accident and make  a 
claim on her car insurance. Esure told Miss M their recommended repairer would  collect her 
vehicle, and another company would  be in touch with her about providing a hire car.
Miss M called esure the next day to say the other  company  had decided  not provide  a hire 
car. Esure told her they could arrange  a courtesy  car from the garage,  but it would  be a 
small car. Miss M said a small  car wouldnt be safe for her children  so she asked to speak  to 
a manager.
Miss M went to the garage to try and obtain a courtesy car. On 21 March the garage told her 
they estimated  her car to be a total loss, and so they wouldnt be providing a courtesy car. 
Miss M called esure on 22 March  to complain that she should have been  given  a courtesy  
car. Esure told her the garage was correct  not to provide  a car. They explained  this again to 
Miss M in a call on 25 March.
Esure contacted  Miss M on 26 March  to tell her they would be settling her claim by paying 
cash in lieu of repair. They said they wouldnt be repairing the car because it had previously 
been recorded as a total loss. They would be paying  Miss M a settlement of £611.20  the 
estimated cost of repair (£1,011.20) less her policy excess of £400. Esure  told Miss M theyd 
arrange for the car to be returned to her.     
Miss M is unhappy with esures decision. She says she was told her car was a total loss and 
thinks her claim  should be settled on that basis. She doesnt want  the car to be returned  and 
doesnt think £600 will cover the cost of repair.
Esure have said Miss Ms policy allows them to settle the claim in the way they have. 
They accept they gave Miss M incorrect information  about her car being  a total loss as a 
result of her accident. But they dont think that resulted in her being  in a worse  position than 
if shed been given the right information.  
Esure agreed to pay Miss M £150  in compensation for giving her incorrect  information and 
not following  their complaints process as they should have. They also agreed to pay her £90 
for nine days loss of use of her car, as a gesture of goodwill. 
Our investigator thought it was fair and reasonable for esure  to pay to settle  Miss Ms clam in 
the way they have.  She thought esure  should pay Miss M a further  £100  in compensation for 
giving her incorrect information as shed contacted the DVLA  to register her car as a total 
loss. So she thought esure  should pay Miss M a total of £340 in compensation. 
Miss M disagrees  and has asked  for her complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN45045992how esure have settled the claim
Ive looked first at how esure have decided to settle  Miss Ms claim.
Miss Ms policy says esure will decide  which method to use to settle a claim. It says they will:
pay to repair the damage;
replace whats been  lost or damaged if its more cost effective than repairing it; or
pay to settle a claim.
In this case, esure decided to pay to settle  Miss Ms claim. They said they werent going to 
pay for the repairs to be done at their recommended garage  because the car had previously 
been recorded as a total loss. They said they wouldnt be able to guarantee the previous 
repair work. 
Ive seen a copy  of the engineers report that esure  relied on. The report described  the 
previous repairs and the condition of the car before the accident as poor.  It said the cost of 
repairing Miss Ms car would  be £1,011.20. 
I think esure were entitled to settle Miss Ms claim in the way they did. Given  what  the 
engineers report  said about the previous repairs,  I think  it was reasonable for esure to 
decide not to repair  the car, but to pay to settle  instead. I also think its fair that esure  
deducted the excess of £400,  in line with the terms of Miss Ms policy,  and therefore paid 
£611.20 to settle the claim.  
Miss M made her claim on 19 March and esure contacted her on 26 March to tell her how 
they would  be settling it. So I think esure  dealt  with Miss Ms claim promptly  and didnt cause 
unnecessary delay.
wrong information
Miss M says esure told her the car was a total loss and then changed their mind.  
Esure have said the garage inspected the car and estimated how much it would cost to 
repair. The garage  told them is was a potential total loss. Esure  referred the garages report 
to their in house  engineer. Based on his advice, esure  decided  to pay to settle the claim. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think esure  changed their mind. They  received  a report from 
the garage and took advice from their own engineer before making a decision on how to 
settle Miss Ms claim. Thats not unusual in this kind of situation, and I think it was a 
reasonable process for esure to follow. 
But esure were at fault for giving Miss M wrong information while they were still in the 
process of considering her claim. Esure have accepted that they gave Miss M misleading 
information when  she called on 22 March to complain that she should  have been given a 
courtesy car. Ive listened to a recording  of that call, and I agree that Miss M was given the 
impression her car was a total loss, and that was the reason why she wouldnt be given  a 
courtesy car. 
That information was incorrect.  Esure were still considering the claim and werent  in a 
position to tell Miss M how they would be settling  it until 26 March.  So esure gave Miss M 
Ref: DRN45045993wrong information which wasnt corrected for several days. Ill look later in this decision at 
the impact this had on Miss M, and what esure should do to put things right.
courtesy car
Miss Ms policy says: 
A courtesy car is provided whilst  your car is being repaired by the recommended 
repairer as part of a valid claim.We aim to provide a courtesy car to you within  two 
working days.A courtesy car is not available if your car has been  stolen and not 
found, or considered to be a total loss.The  courtesy car will be a small car.
The day after Miss M made a claim, esure told her they could arrange a courtesy car. 
Miss M was unhappy it would be a small car because she thought  it would be unsafe for her 
children so she asked  to speak to a manager.
From the notes esure have provided, it seems Miss M went  to the garage on 20 March and 
was told a courtesy car would be available later that day. It appears Miss M went  back on 
21 March but was told a courtesy  car wouldnt be provided because her car was a total loss. 
Miss M then called esure  on 22 March  the call that Ive referred to earlier  in this decision. 
Esure told Miss M that she wouldnt be given a courtesy car as her car was a total loss. 
The same information  was given to Miss M in another call on 25 March.  But, as Ive already 
discussed, esure gave  Miss M incorrect information  when they said her car was a total loss. 
Esure have said Miss M wouldnt have been eligible  for a courtesy car anyway because  her 
car wasnt repaired by their recommended repairer.  Ive thought  about  what  esure have 
said, but overall I dont  think  esure dealt with Miss Ms request for a courtesy  car as well as 
they should have. 
Miss Ms policy says that esure would aim to provide a courtesy car within  two days.  
Esure told Miss M on 20 March that she could  have a courtesy car. And it seems the garage 
told her that one would  be available later that day. I cant be sure why she wasnt  given a car 
at that point, or whether  it would have been  a bigger car as shed requested. 
It appears that the garage told Miss M on 21 and 22 March that her car was a total loss and 
so no courtesy car would be provided.  But, as Ive discussed earlier  in this decision,  esure 
hadnt made a decision  on her claim at that point.  Although the garage  had said her car was 
a potential total loss, esure didnt decide how to settle the claim until 26 March. 
Once esure decided  how to settle  Miss Ms claim,  on 26 March,  she wasnt eligible for a 
courtesy car under the terms  of her policy. But prior to that I dont think  it was fair and 
reasonable for esure  to refuse Miss M a courtesy  car on the grounds that her car was a total 
loss, when that wasnt the case.
     
what esure should do to put things right
In summary,  I think it was fair and reasonable for esure to settle  Miss Ms claim in the way 
they did. But esure gave Miss M wrong  information while they were  still considering  her 
claim. And, on the basis of that wrong  information,  they told Miss M she wasnt  eligible for a 
courtesy car  having previously told her she was. 
Ref: DRN45045994Being involved  in an accident  and having  to make  an insurance claim is inevitably a stressful  
experience. In this case, I think esures  actions  have added to the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss M. And having  listened to some of their calls,  I think  esure 
could have been more sympathetic to Miss Ms circumstances.
Esure have already offered Miss M compensation of £90 for the loss of use of her car, and 
£150 for giving  her incorrect information.  Our investigator recommended  that esure pay an 
additional £100 in compensation for the inconvenience caused to Miss M.
I agree  with our investigator that esure  should  do more  to put things. And Ive thought  
carefully about whether the compensation proposed by our investigator is sufficient. 
I understand this has been a very distressing time for Miss M, and that she feels  strongly 
about whats happened. But I can only hold esure responsible for the mistakes theyve made 
and for the additional distress and inconvenience theyve caused to Miss M. And overall, I 
think the total compensation of £340  proposed by our investigator is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint against 
esure Insurance Limited.   
Esure Insurance Limited should pay Miss M a further £100 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to her. This is in addition to the £240 of compensation theyve already 
offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4504599