K820x#14complaint
Mrs M and the Personal Representative  (PR) of the late Mr M say that Newcastle Building 
Society (NBS) mis-sold  them a regular  premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
Mrs M and the late Mr M took out a mortgage around the end of 1990.  They  took out a 
further advance  on this mortgage  in 1994. In 1998  after a mailing about PPI they took out a 
PPI policy  to cover their mortgage  having not previously had a PPI policy. The policy was 
in joint names with the benefit split 50/50  and covered their mortgage payments if either the 
late Mr M or Mrs M were unable to work  due to accident or sickness  or lost their jobs. 
In 2008 the policy provider of the PPI changed and they replaced their policy and amended  
the deferment period to claim on the policy to 60 days.
Our adjudicator didnt  think their complaint should be upheld.  Mrs M and Mr Ms PR 
disagree, they say that they were  never  told the policy was optional and the exclusions and 
limitations were not explained. 
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  
NBS had to make it clear  the PPI was optional and that Mr and Mrs M chose to take it. 
Mrs M and the PR of Mr M say this wasnt done  but havent given  us much detail about why 
they think this. But I think thats understandable as the PPI was sold a while ago. So Ive 
relied more on what  the documents  from the sale show. 
The first policy was taken  out by completing  a postal  application following a mail out about 
PPI. I have seen a copy of the mail out and application form Mrs M and the late Mr M 
completed and signed.  I can see they were given three different levels of cover with the cost 
displayed next to each level. And I can see that they selected to take accident,  sickness and 
unemployment cover  by ticking the box next to this option. 
Because Mrs M and the late Mr M already had a mortgage which they had taken out a 
further advance  on without PPI I think they wouldve understood that they didnt need PPI to 
get a mortgage.  And there is nothing  on the mail out or application form that presents the 
policy as compulsory. So I think Mrs M and the late Mr M wouldve understood PPI was 
optional and they chose to complete the application form because they wanted the cover.
The second  policy  was taken out and replaced  the first policy in 2008. I can see from 
correspondence sent out to Mr and Mrs M at the time that when this policy was taken out a 
demands and needs  statement was completed, that there was some discussion about  PPI 
and a personal recommendation was made keeping the same level of cover - but to increase 
the deferment period to 60 days.  
Ref: DRN49814212Ive also seen a letter addressed to Mr and Mrs M thanking them for choosing to take out 
PPI and confirming  their existing policy has been  cancelled and replaced with a new policy 
with the 60 day deferment period. So again,  I think that Mrs M and the late Mr M wouldve 
understood from the discussions about PPI and their needs that they had a choice  in taking 
the policy and that they chose to take it because they wanted the cover.
I dont think any advice  was given to Mr and Mrs M when they took out the first policy but 
because a recommendation was given when they took out the second policy I am going to 
treat this sale of PPI as if NBS advised Mrs M and the late Mr M to take the policy. What  this 
means is that NBS not only had to provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way so that Mrs M and the late Mr M could  make an informed choice about  
buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI that the policy was 
suitable for their needs and circumstances.
I dont know if NBS did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs M and the late Mr M for the following reasons:
They were  both eligible  for the policy.
I understand  that Mr M suffered from a pre-existing medical condition (PEMC) when PPI 
was sold to them. The policy excluded claims for time off work due to PEMCs.  But from 
the information Ive been given about  his condition there  is nothing  to make me think 
Mr M ever had any time off work  because of his condition  or that he would do at some 
stage in the future. So I think its unlikely hed have thought  he might need to claim on 
the policy  because  of this and that this exclusion wouldve  stopped him buying  the 
policy.
And it doesnt look like they wouldve been  caught by any of the other main exclusions in 
the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mrs M and the PR of Mr M say they were  entitled to a good level 
of sick pay and had savings they could  use to make their mortgage payments if they 
couldnt work.  But a successful  claim  on the policy  wouldve paid out on top of this and 
covered them  for up to 12 months  if they were unable  to work due to accident or 
sickness, or if they lost their jobs. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mrs M and the late Mr M in 
their circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long 
term financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were  unable to meet  their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them.  
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to Mrs M and the late 
Mr M at the time. And if they decided they no longer  wanted the policy  they couldve 
cancelled it.
I also need to consider  whether NBS gave Mrs M and the late Mr M information in a way 
which was clear, fair and not misleading  so that they could make a proper choice about 
whether or not they wanted to take the policy out. I dont know  if NBS did give all the 
information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable  and based  
on what Mrs M and the PR of Mr M have told us about their circumstances at the time,  I think 
they wouldve  still taken  out the policy if theyd been given all the proper information.  
Ref: DRN49814213Which means NBS doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs M and the PR of 
Mr M.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Mrs M and the Personal Representative of 
Mr Ms complaint against Newcastle Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and the 
Personal Representative of Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4981421