K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policies 
taken out alongside two personal loans in October 2006 and October 2008. Mr M says 
Scotwest Credit Union Limited  (SCU) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr M has said he was mis-sold PPI alongside  two loans in October 2006 and October 2008. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this case. Mr M disagreed so its been passed to me to decide. 
This decision will only look at these two loans. Whilst Mr M had another loan, weve already 
explained to Mr M why we arent able to look at that one. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr M has said the loan would not have been approved  without the PPI being  taken. SCU 
has said the optional  nature of the policy would have  been clear. Where theres  a dispute 
about what happened, I have to base my decision  on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened, taking into account all the evidence that is available .
SCU has provided me with a copy of the loan agreement completed at the time for the 
October 2006 sale. I can see there is an option to select or decline PPI. Theres a tick beside  
the option to take PPI and Mr M has signed  the form.  So I think  this indicates what he 
wanted. If Mr M didnt want PPI, he couldve ticked to decline it. 
SCU has also provided me with a copy of the loan agreement completed  at the time for the 
October 2008 sale. Like the above sale, there is an option to select  or decline PPI and Mr M 
has selected PPI and signed  the form. SCU has also provided me with a copy  of the 
separate PPI application form which has been completed and Mr M has signed the 
application  which I think indicates  he agreed to and wanted  the cover. 
So having  taken everything in to consideration, I think SCU made it clear that Mr M didnt  
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
cant remember this.
Im satisfied that SCU  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide  if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information SCU gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
Ref: DRN48170772of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Mr M has said he would have received 26 weeks followed by 26 weeks  half sick pay from 
his employer if he was too ill to work. But the PPI policy couldve covered Mr Ms repayments 
for up to 24 months per claim if he became too ill to work, or for 12 months per claim if he 
became unemployed. It wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay he had and for longer 
than his sick pay lasted.  And it wouldve paid out on top of any redundancy payment he may 
have got if he lost his job. So I think the PPI policy couldve been helpful  to him.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said but these  points  dont change  my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr M paid on his PPI  and whether SCU treated 
him unfairly.  
SCU has told us that the commission for Mr Ms PPI was less than half of what  he paid for 
each premium. Weve looked at how SCU has been  working this out and based  on what 
weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Ms commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell him about the commission   so I dont think 
SCU treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt  need to pay Mr M back any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4817077