K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Novaloans Ltd (trading as Cash4unow) didnt carry out proper 
affordability checks and shouldnt have agreed to lend him 6 loans as he couldnt pay them  
back.
background
Mr D took out 6 loans  between  February  2017  and December  2017. A summary of his 
borrowing is as follows; 
Loan NumberBorrowing 
DateInstalments Loan Amount Highest  
monthly  
repayment
1 10/02/2017 5 500 144.09
2 04/04/2017 5 400 123.22
3 08/05/2017 3 300 144.81
4 25/08/2017 4 400 123.22
5 16/10/2017 3 200 90.97
6 22/12/2017 6 500 139.12
Novaloans says it took into consideration Mr Ds monthly income, his expenditure and 
carried out credit searches when it assessed his loan applications. It says Mr D had enough 
disposable income and could afford the loans.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be partly  upheld. He said the checks Novaloans  
carried out for loans  1-4 were proportionate for Mr D. But for loans 5 and 6 he said 
Novaloans hadnt  carried out sufficient checks.  He felt if Novaloans  had carried out 
proportionate checks they would have  shown Mr D wouldnt have been able to afford them.  
Our adjudicator also made suggestions for Novaloans to put things right regarding these 2 
loans.
As both parties still cant agree, this complaint  has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Novaloans, at the time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr D would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr D would have been 
able to do so.
Ref: DRN47433602Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Ds indebtedness in a way that was otherwise 
unsustainable or harmful?
Did Novaloans act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other  way?
If I determine that Novaloans did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr D and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider  what  is fair compensation.
Novaloans was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make  checks to see whether Mr D 
could afford  to pay back the loans before it lent to him. Those  checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr D was borrowing and the length of the 
agreement. But there was no set list of checks Novaloans had to do.
Novaloans says it asked  about Mr Ds income  and expenditure and carried  out credit  checks  
for each  of the 6 loans. It says it relied  on the information he gave.
I think the checks Novaloans carried out on loans 1--4 went  far enough. The monthly loan 
repayments appeared affordable on the information  Novaloans had available  on each 
occasion. I dont  think it would have seen anything  that would have alerted it to carry out any 
further checks for each  of the first 4 loans and from the information it had I think it would 
have seen that all 4 loans were affordable for Mr D.
Mr D took out loan 5 on 16/10/2017  and by this stage hed been borrowing regularly and in 
quick succession. I think Mr Ds pattern of borrowing at this point suggested he mayve  been 
becoming reliant on short term credit. I think it wouldve been reasonable and proportionate 
for Novaloans to have  asked further  questions and carried out more checks. I think it should 
have done so for the loan application for loan 6 also.
I think Novaloans should have been  looking to carry out a complete review of Mr Ds 
finances. If it had carried  out further checks on loan 5 and 6, it would have  seen he had a 
number of other payday loan commitments  on top of his self declared expenditure. And it 
would have also seen  that Mr D had significant  gambling transactions. When  these 
additional amounts are considered alongside  Mr Ds normal living  costs,  then it is clear to me 
that he had no disposable income in order to meet the monthly  repayments  for loans 5 and 
6. These  two loans  werent sustainable. 
Taking everything into account  I dont think Novaloans  has shown its checks  for loans  5 and 
6 were sufficient or proportionate given Mr Ds borrowing history or, the amounts borrowed. I 
consider proportionate  checks would  have shown Novaloans that Mr D couldnt  afford to 
repay the two loans.  On balance I dont think these  2 loans shouldve been  granted.  So 
Novaloans should  put right what it did wrong.
Ref: DRN47433603putting things right
I dont think Novaloans should have agreed to give Mr D loan 5 or Loan 6. So Novaloans  
should;
Refund any interest and charges applied to each of the two loans.  
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to the two 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Novaloans to take off tax from this interest. Novaloans  
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
It is my understanding that Mr D still owes Novaloans  some of the principal balance he 
borrowed on his final loan. Novaloans may deduct this from the compensation that is due to 
him. But, to be clear,  that outstanding balance  should be recalculated to remove any interest 
and charges, taking  account of any repayments Mr D has made on that loan as though  they 
were applied against the principal sum borrowed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct  Novaloans Ltd to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4743360