K821x#15complaint
R, a limited company,  complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly said it was going  to close  
the bank account because information  it had asked for had not been provided.
background
R received a letter from HSBC giving two months  notice that the bank account would be 
closed. Three days later HSBC wrote to R to say it had 90 days  to provide information  about 
its business as part of a safeguard exercise. When the director spoke to HSBC  he says he 
was asked for the same information hed provided a year ago. R had been  told at that time 
that HSBC had everything it needed. So it says it has been  caused needless inconvenience  
and it asked for compensation.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in part. He said that:
-HSBC had clarified that this was a separate exercise to the one completed in 2017. It 
was following its process in conducting  a further  review.
-The error it made was in sending a notice of closure  before it had told R about its 
requirements or given  it an opportunity to comply.
-HSBC had not fully set out what had happened in the final response.
-This had all caused some inconvenience and disruption for R. He recommended 
HSBC pay it £200 in compensation.
R said it would accept  this payment. But if HSBC  did not agree R wanted an ombudsmans  
review.
HSBC did not agree that the compensation was reasonable.  It said that a new review had 
been triggered. Its only mistake was the first letter. R was clear  after three days  what the 
deadlines were.  This level of impact does not warrant a £200 payment which is described by 
HSBC as very excessive and such  a significant  amount.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that R participated  in a safeguard review by HSBC in 2017. HSBC has explained that 
this is to protect against fraud and financial crime. And to ensure it meets its regulatory 
requirements. There were some issues with that earlier review and a complaint about  that 
had been referred  to this service. And an offer of compensation of £500  was made. In 
October 2017 HSBC  wrote to R to say that all the information had been received and there  
were no restrictions on the account.
HSBC wrote to R on 8 October  2018 stating that its account would be closed on 11 
December 2018.  It said that R had not complied with its requirements to provide information. 
On 11 October 2018 it wrote to R about the safeguard exercise. And told it there were 90 
days to provide the information. My understanding is that R had a review  with HSBC on 15 
October 2018 and was concerned to be asked for the same  information it had provided in 
2017. R says that HSBC  could not explain to it why it was being asked for this again. R 
complained.
Ref: DRN44290702Ive looked at the final response and it says that reviews are conducted periodically. And 
HSBC acknowledged  that R had completed  a review 12 months  earlier but that we now 
need to confirm that the information  we hold is still correct. It went  on to state  that the 
review was now complete. But it said that there  could be future reviews.
Its clear that HSBC wanted  to carry out an annual  review of R in 2018. Im satisfied from 
what it says that this was triggered by its own criteria. So I cant  find it was wrong to ask for 
this  even if nothing had changed  over the previous year.  We dont have a role in saying 
what processes it has in place.
What I can look at is whether it followed those  processes and the related  customer  service 
provided. It wrongly told R that it had given notice to close its accounts because it had not 
complied with an information request. That understandably led R to think  that the problems it 
thought had been resolved with its complaint  about  2017 had not been  dealt with. And that 
seemed to be what HSBC  thought when it issued the letter. There had been no other  
requests in the past year. I think that receiving such notice that the account  was to be closed 
was a significant issue for R. This understandably required  its immediate attention. So I am 
not persuaded that HSBCs letter three  days later giving  contradictory but then correct  
information would have been  greatly reassuring.  Thats especially as until this complaint was 
investigated by this service the error  with the first letter was not clearly  accepted.  Given  the 
past issues I can see why this matter did cause R unnecessary  inconvenience  and I 
consider it had received poor customer service.  I separate that impact from the necessary 
inconvenience of providing what seemed to be the same information  again for the new 2018  
safeguard exercise.
The question of compensation  is one for my personal judgement and Ive taken into account 
our published  guidelines and that R as a limited  company cannot suffer distress.  I need to 
decide on what I think is proportionate taking into account all the circumstances and my 
findings. Having  done so I consider that the award already suggested of £200  is an 
appropriate response to what happened. So I am going to be endorsing this as reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC  UK Bank  Plc to pay R 
£200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4429070