K821x#15complaint
Miss Ps complaint concerns a decision by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited 
(L&G) not to pay her critical illness claim.  Instead, L&G has cancelled  both her critical 
illness and life assurance policies from the outset.
To resolve  her complaint  Miss P wants her life assurance policy  reinstated, and her critical 
illness claim paid.
background
I issued a provisional decision to the parties  on 21 November 2018.  It is attached  to this final 
decision; however,  some  medical and commercial  information specific  to the parties  has 
been redacted.  
In respect of Miss Ps applications, I agreed  with our adjudicator that Miss P ought  to have 
answered at least one question differently on both of them. Though she had believed L&G 
would look at her entire medical records at the time,  it hadnt  been given any disclosures that 
required it to do so. L&G relied on the information it received and offered cover with a rating 
to Miss P.  
I believed that the policy  question was clear, and irrespective of whether L&G obtained her 
medical records, Miss P had needed to tell L&G that she had been  for an ultrasound scan  
within the last twelve months. That amounted to a misrepresentation.  I felt this was a 
careless rather than a deliberate or reckless  misrepresentation. 
On the information available to me, I believed L&G was correct in refusing to pay Miss Ps 
critical illness claim, since Miss Ps erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) levels exceeded  
the stated limits within L&Gs underwriting manual for critical illness cover.  I believed  it was 
reasonable for L&G to determine  it couldnt  have offered Miss P critical illness  cover, and 
therefore a claim could not be paid now.   
However, I did not believe it was right to void Miss Ps life assurance policy.  I didnt think it 
was reasonable  to consider Miss P remained under investigation when no mention was ever 
made for her being referred for a colonoscopy.  The manual page for life assurance gave 
differing acceptable  levels  for ESR, and Miss Ps highest reported ESR level fell within  a 
range where cover  would be offered, but with +50 rating. I believed  this was the most likely  
retrospective underwriting decision  in the circumstances.  
I therefore set out my findings on how L&G ought  to put matters  right  as this depends on 
whether Miss P wishes to keep her policy going forward. I also asked L&G to confirm if it 
was able to sever the critical  illness policy such that Miss P could retain life assurance 
benefit from that policy as well. Finally, I proposed L&G pay £500 to Miss P to reflect the 
upset at the loss of her life cover, given her recent  diagnosis.  
Miss Ps partner replied  on her behalf. He explained that she was not entirely happy with the 
outcome, given she had wanted a claim paid. But, she accepted the reasoning in my 
provisional findings and wished for L&G to reinstate the life assurance policy.   
L&G did not accept  some of my provisional  findings.  It agreed that it couldnt have offered 
Miss P critical illness cover or paid a claim. But it said it couldnt have insured her for life 
cover either. 
Ref: DRN45528112An underwriter provided comments upon  review of my provisional findings. He said that it 
simply wasnt possible to view the blood tests in isolation. He confirmed that his view would  
be cover  could not have  been offered until either  there was a reason for the abnormal 
results, or they had returned to normal.  
He also said the assumption the GP had made  as to the cause of raised  neutrophils was 
incorrect  smoking was not a listed cause of raised  neutrophils as far as L&G was 
concerned. 
Finally, he noted that before  the policy start date the last ESR was [specified amount] and 
the white blood cell [specified amount]. The ESR is postpone until fully investigated  if 
associated with other laboratory abnormalities  and [the underwriting manual for white  blood 
cell count] advised for a repeat test with WBC over [specified amount].
He goes on to explain that the next available test was a year later, in May 2016.  And Miss 
Ps white blood cell count was improved (but still abnormal) by then. But, by this time she 
had new symptoms and those led to her cancer  diagnosis. 
L&G remained of the view it couldnt insure Miss P at all in December 2015. It didnt provide 
further comment in respect  of whether  the life and critical illness  policy could be severed to 
provide life cover only. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the same 
view  I believe a reasonable interpretation  of the medical evidence and underwriting  
suggests Miss P would have been  offered life assurance with a rating.  
The underwriting guidance L&G uses relating to ESR has two separate classifications for 
critical illness cover and life cover (including  other  benefit cover such  as waiver of premium). 
It is clear, therefore, that underwriting  for these different products is based on differing levels  
of acceptable  risk. That is also supported by the different acceptable thresholds for when an 
applicant has elevated  ESR levels.  
In the instance  of critical illness  cover,  Miss Ps most recent blood tests preceding her policy 
application (some  six months prior) exceeded  the acceptable levels.  So, irrespective of 
whether the matter was fully investigated  or not, the guidance is clear that rating will only be 
provided where there is either a known cause, or the ESR falls to within  the stated levels.  
The same proviso applies  to the life cover classification. However,  Miss Ps recorded  ESR 
level falls within an acceptable  risk classification, whereby a person will be insured but for a 
+50 rating  to the cost of that cover. 
I appreciate that L&Gs underwriter has explained that the guidance  also says where the 
reading is associated with other laboratory abnormalities then it is recorded to postpone  the 
offer until fully investigated. But, I explained  in detail in my provisional findings  how L&G 
would not have been able to insist Miss P underwent further testing or a colonoscopy, where 
her GP did not see fit to do so. 
Ref: DRN45528113It is not possible to know  after the event exactly what an underwriter would have said when  a 
matter was subject  to individual consideration. I must therefore make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. My role is to determine what  a reasonable interpretation of the 
underwriting would have  looked like. Im not substituting my view for that of L&G  in 
reaching a reasonable outcome in the circumstances I need to look at the guidance an 
underwriter would have  had before him or her, against Miss Ps medical records.  
The abnormal finding  L&G refers to for the white blood cell count is marginal in the reading 
of May 2015. I shant  repeat it here,  but it is incredibly close  to a normal  reading as set out 
on the WBC  underwriting manual page  being  just 100mm outside of a wide reference 
range. L&G hasnt supplied further  specific rating  pages for neutrophils, but again these 
were otherwise marginal  (though I note L&G disputes the GPs view on their underlying 
cause). 
But, even  if I accept  the reading  was abnormal, the underwriting guidance says that a repeat 
test should be done. At all times  before the test of May 2015 (February  2015,  April 2015) 
and one year thereafter (May  2016) Miss Ps white blood cell count was sufficiently within  
acceptable levels for standard terms (and by a greater margin than the one reading  which  
fell outside of that range). It seems likely, on balance, that even if any further investigation 
had taken place,  Miss Ps associated white blood cell count was more  likely than not to have 
been within an acceptable range. 
I realise the underwriter  has said Miss P continued to have symptoms  but this post-dates  her 
insurance application and in any event  is not specified as a consideration on the 
underwriting manual. 
It remains therefore that I disagree  with the view that Miss P would have  been  deemed to 
have other  laboratory  abnormalities  for the purposes  of viewing her blood tests  in the round 
alongside her ESR levels. As I stated earlier, Im also mindful that the underwriting guidance  
says that an applicant with an ESR of between [redacted amounts  on the underwriting  
manual] will be insured (providing the applicant  has a negative medical history) but with a 
rating of +50. I therefore continue to believe that this is the most likely underwriting outcome 
for Miss Ps life assurance application.
putting things  right
I believe L&G would not have been  able to offer Miss P critical illness insurance because it 
required investigations to be fully completed. Whilst I accept  there was no further action 
intended by Miss Ps GP (such as a referral  for a colonoscopy), it was noted throughout the 
medical file that her ESR markers  should be expected to return  to normal, yet the last 
recorded reading remained above expected levels. I believe a reasonable interpretation of 
fully investigated on this basis  would include  some  consideration of the recorded level of 
the inflammatory markers as any underwriter was required to carefully review any abnormal 
result before making  an offer of insurance.   
I do not uphold  the part of the complaint about  the refusal of the critical illness  claim.    
However, the underwriting for life assurance  differs, and it would allow insurance terms to be 
offered to Miss P albeit  with a further rating of +50. For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not 
believe a fair reading of the underwriting is to associate Miss Ps ESR levels with other 
laboratory abnormalities, as these were either sufficiently explained or within  acceptable 
Ref: DRN45528114tolerance levels. And, in any event,  Miss Ps highest  recorded  ESR level of May 2016 was 
within an acceptable insurance risk rating for life cover and other lower-risk benefits.  
I therefore direct L&G to act as follows:
1.Miss Ps life assurance policy must be reinstated from the date of acceptance  of my 
decision, if Miss P accepts it. In these particular circumstances,  I do not feel Miss P 
ought to repay the policy premiums since the date of cancellation in 2018 because 
she was not at fault for the cancellation of her life cover;  it was open  to L&G to 
determine the difference between the acceptable risk for life insurance and critical 
illness insurance  (even though I disagree with how that was actioned).
2.Miss P will need to return  the premiums she was refunded for the policy, if she 
wishes to have  it reinstated.  She must do so within six months of the date of 
acceptance of the decision, if she accepts it. 
3.L&G will need to determine the cost of Miss Ps policy going forward,  given a second 
rating would need  to be applied. It should inform her of this cost before she decides 
whether she would like to keep the policy. 
4.L&G must  pay £500 to Miss P for the upset caused to her by the cancellation of her 
policies at what has been a very difficult time for her and her family. For clarity, this is 
one payment, in respect of the cancellation  of both policies.    
In respect of Miss Ps combined  life and critical illness  policy,  L&G has not replied on that 
point following my provisional decision.  It must  therefore inform Miss P as to whether or not 
the policy terms are severable such that Miss P could continue with that policy as further life 
cover, if required. If this is not possible, L&G is not required to take any further action. If it is 
possible, L&G ought to follow steps  1-3 above  in respect of this policy as well. As regards 
step 2, the proportion of premium payable for life cover only will need to be returned  Miss 
P is entitled to retain the refund for the critical illness cover since L&G could not have offered 
it to her in 2015.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part. Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited  must  carry out the steps above in order to reinstate Miss Ps life 
assurance policy (or policies). It must also pay her the sum directed for the upset she has 
been caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February  2019.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN45528115Provisional decision (with  redactions)
complaint
Miss Ps complaint  concerns  a decision by Legal and General Assurance  Society Limited  (L&G) not 
to pay her critical illness claim. Instead, L&G has cancelled both her critical  illness and life assurance 
policies from the outset.   
To resolve her complaint Miss P wants her life assurance policy  reinstated, and her critical  illness 
claim paid.   
background
Miss P sought  personal protection policies  along with her partner when they were purchasing  a new 
home in 2015. She completed  two applications via telephone with a financial  adviser. These were for 
life assurance with a sum assured of £160,750 matching  her lending, and a separate  life and critical 
illness policy for a sum assured of £40,000.  The policies  were set up for 30-year  terms. 
L&G agreed  to insure Miss P, but it rated both policy  premiums by +50 due to disclosures she had 
made in respect of her weight  and height. After Miss P accepted the amended premiums,  the policies  
began on 14 December 2015. 
Miss P was sent copies  of her policy  applications to check. She returned checking your details forms 
to L&G dated 13 January 2016. 
In March 2017, Miss P told L&G that she had been sadly diagnosed with a type of bowel cancer. She 
had since required  surgery. L&G began looking into a claim for Miss P, under her critical illness policy 
definition of cancer.  
In July 2017,  L&G told Miss P that it would  not pay her claim, because  it shouldnt have insured her at 
all. It said Miss P ought to have  told it about episodes of diarrhoea, because she had been referred  for 
an ultrasound  scan and blood  tests. If she had done so, it would have postponed her cover until the 
raised markers in her blood tests had returned to normal. 
L&G didnt believe  Miss P had intentionally  withheld information, but nonetheless, she had failed to 
tell it about her ultrasound scan and she should have done so. Because  of this, it refunded the 
premiums she had paid for both policies. 
Miss P appealed and lodged a complaint. She explained how she genuinely forgot that she had 
undergone an ultrasound scan, and but for that oversight, shed have disclosed it.  
She also said her premiums were increased based on her body  mass  which  was recorded in her 
medical records. L&G had written to her specifically asking  for access  to those  records.  So it must 
have known about her situation at the time. And if it didnt,  she should not be at fault for L&Gs  failure  
to review her medical history. 
L&G wasnt willing to change its view. In a final response to the complaint of September 2017,  it said 
Miss P had misrepresented in failing  to answer  two questions correctly on both applications. It noted 
how the questions on the policy application werent asking about a diagnosis. So, Miss P should  have 
told it about  the symptoms which caused her to visit her doctor,  as well as her referral for an 
ultrasound. 
L&G said it believed the misrepresentation was careless  and there would  have been a different 
underwriting outcome  had it known the correct information  at the time. It also confirmed it did not 
obtain Miss Ps medical records  in 2015, because it simply increased the cost of both policies based 
on her stated height and weight.   
Ref: DRN45528116Miss P brought her complaint to this service. She said she was told her symptoms  were down  to a 
dormant infection, and were being treated as irritable  bowel syndrome (IBS) because  when  no cause 
can be found  it is recorded  as IBS. Also, despite L&G saying they had not sought  her medical 
records, she was sent a letter at the time of her application saying L&G was intending to access  her 
records. Miss P explained she felt L&G was trying to avoid paying her claim when  it had access  to her 
medical information  in 2015, and that was the reason it charged her more for the policy, having noted 
her body mass on her medical  records. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She agreed that Miss P failed to answer the questions put to 
her correctly. But she thought the complaint should be upheld because she believed that Miss P 
would have been offered cover by L&G. 
Our adjudicator therefore  proposed that it ought to underwrite Miss P as if she had been fully 
investigated for having an inflammatory bowel condition  (though it was not diagnosed),  because those 
investigations were completed  without any other conclusion. Since she took the view Miss P would  
have been insured, she also thought L&G should pay a claim made  under  the critical illness policy 
(rating the policy for inflammatory bowel  issues  if required).  Finally, she proposed L&G pay Miss P 
£500 to reflect the upset she had been caused.
L&G disagreed. It noted our adjudicator recognised that it was right to conclude Miss P had 
misrepresented on her application and that the reason for her doing  so was careless  
misrepresentation. But, it disagreed with her conclusions on a proportionate remedy. It said because  
of inflammatory  markers being raised on Miss Ps blood  tests, it couldnt  have offered her insurance 
until either she had been fully investigated  or the bloods had returned to normal.  
It also noted  that the underwriter felt it was not fair to assume there had been  a diagnosis of 
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) because there had been  a specific negative test for IBD. 
L&Gs underwriter confirmed that though there were no investigations left for Miss P, it was unfair to 
say that investigations were  concluded. Thats because it said there was still an ongoing concern  from 
an underwriting point of view.  
Our adjudicator considered  the complaint again, in light of L&Gs further comments. But she wasnt 
minded to change her view.  She didnt  think that L&G had reached a fair retrospective underwriting 
outcome. She recognised Miss P hadnt been diagnosed with IBD or any other similar condition.  But, 
her circumstances had been fully investigated. It was for that reason no further action was taken  by 
the GP.  
L&G asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.  It made some further comments, noting that:
it disagrees as to what would  have  been important to the insurer at that time;
an insurer has to determine long term risk  and this wasnt known;
Miss Ps raised markers remained abnormal  at the time of the application;
she was also deemed to have a fatty liver of an unexplained origin;
no diagnosis was made;
there was no other significant  investigation   such as a colonoscopy;
it is unclear  as to why the GP chose not to continue investigating Miss P after 4 June  2015, 
but this doesnt mean the GP was unconcerned;
it feels it has acted in accordance  with relevant law and guidance from the Association of 
British Insurers  (ABI);
it reiterated how because of the medical  factors, a prudent underwriter would  have postponed  
cover until any investigation  was concluded or Miss Ps bloods returned to normal.
Miss P didnt have any further  comments to make. 
Ref: DRN45528117my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I was very sorry to have learned about Miss Ps illness,  and I realise 
this has been an upsetting time for her and her family and Id like to thank them  for their patience  
whilst this matter reached a decision.
Having looked at everything, I havent been  able to agree with the conclusion reached by our 
adjudicator. I have reached differing findings  regarding the interpretation of L&Gs  underwriting  
guidance  and consequently I am proposing to reach a different outcome.  Ill explain why that is. 
When applying for insurance,  if an applicant  doesnt tell an insurer relevant  information  in response to 
a clear question its known  as misrepresentation. If the circumstances around a claim  prompt  an 
insurer to believe a misrepresentation may have occurred within  an application, its entitled to 
consider what  ought to have happened at that time.  
In Miss Ps case, she was asked:
Apart  from anything you've already told us about in this application, during the last 5 years 
have you seen  a doctor, nurse or other health professional for; any condition affecting your 
stomach, oesophagus or bowel, for example  Crohns  disease, ulcerative colitis?  Please 
ignore diarrhoea,  food poisoning, sickness or vomiting, stomach bug or upset, provided no 
hospital investigation was advised or completed; 
Apart  from anything you've already told us about in this application, during the last 12 months 
have you been referred to or had any investigations in hospital, for example biopsy, scan, 
ECG?
Miss P said no to both questions.
Miss P has pointed to L&Gs  letter of 1 December 2015 sent immediately after her application, 
regarding access to medical records. It reconfirmed  the declaration  Miss P had given on her 
application in respect of allowing  L&G the right to access of her records. I appreciate this letter 
expressly says Legal & General will use your records  to assess your application. [We] will decide  
how much  of your medical records are requested in order to do this. I understand why Miss P feels  
L&G had the chance  to review her entire medical records. However, insurers rarely  do so where they 
are able to offer terms without requiring  further  details (such as where a person makes no disclosures  
or has no significant medical history).  
L&G didnt actually seek any medical  record from Miss P, because  there was no reason  to do so. She 
was [redacted age] and she had only made disclosures relating to smoking, family members, 
childhood asthma  and her body  mass  but none  of these prompted it to contact the GP. That was a 
choice for L&G  it wasnt obliged to obtain evidence. And importantly, it was entitled to expect  that 
Miss P had answered  the application questions to the best of her knowledge.  The fact L&G didnt 
seek medical records doesnt mean I can disregard  that it has an entitlement  under relevant law to 
amend or void a contract if a misrepresentation has occurred.  
I realise the application  was completed  via telephone, and Miss P might not have been able to reflect 
immediately on forgetting to recall the scan. Its for that reason she was sent a copy  of her answers to 
review. That document sets out the importance of reviewing the right answers, noting, if the answers 
on your application are not correct, are incomplete, or are out of date it may mean that a claim will be 
declined and the policy or policies cancelled.  In the event of a claim we may request a report from 
your doctor  to support your application answers . 
I can understand why Miss P feels  she answered  the first question correctly, because it specifically  
tells the applicant to ignore diarrhoea.  Nonetheless, I think Miss P ought  to have given a positive 
answer to the other  question. Miss P had been referred for an ultrasound  scan. I know she says she 
Ref: DRN45528118forgot all about it because the policy application was later in 2015, but the question gave a 12 month 
timescale  and I do think Miss P ought reasonably  to have  been able to recall having been for the 
scan. L&G needed to know about it. 
There are two types of qualifying  misrepresentation  careless and deliberate/reckless. I dont believe 
Miss P intended to deceive L&G or acted  without any care at all, given the other disclosures shed 
made. But she needed to show more care when  answering and checking that second question. 
In the event  of careless misrepresentation, an insurer must consider a proportionate remedy. This 
means the outcome  will therefore depend on what the underwriting decision would  have been had the 
misrepresentation not occurred at the time. 
So, Ive looked at Miss Ps medical records and the evidence L&G has regarding  its underwriting  
manual pages from 2015. I think it is necessary for me to repeat some of these records here in full, to 
explain why I have reached my particular findings. I dont intend to replicate these  or the entire  quotes 
from L&Gs  manual pages in any final decision. For this reason, the provisional extract contains 
redacted sections. 
Miss P first attended her GP in September 2014. At that time, she had been suffering from significant 
diarrhoea with some blood but no fever or vomiting. She was told she had likely  infective 
gastroenteritis. The following day she noted the symptom of diarrhoea  had settled  so she was to 
attend again if the bleeding  persisted.
She returned  in February 2015  complaining of abdominal discomfort, loose bowel motions, and the 
recorded history of passing blood and diarrhoea.  Her GP referred her for blood tests and an 
ultrasound scan. 
On 16 February 2015, the GP wrote to Miss P [about  her results   details redacted]
By 27 February 2015, the GP said [about her results and repeat blood  test  details  redacted]
By 8 April 2015, Miss P attended again, noting her bowel  symptoms and cramps  were  much 
improved. Her GP issued a further letter that day [about  her results  details redacted]
At that time, the ESR marker was [redacted] . The following month, Miss Ps ultrasound results came 
back. The GP said:
We now have the results  of your ultrasound. It didnt  show anything concerning.  What it does 
show is what  they call non-alcoholic fatty infiltration disease in the liver. Your  liver function  
test are perfectly normal but if you are still having symptoms and wish to discuss this further  
please book a review  appointment at the practice with one of the GPs.
On 26 May 2015, the GP wrote out again [about her results and a further appointment details 
redacted]
The ESR level was recorded as [redacted] . Miss P also had abnormal neutrophils.  There were 
additional noted raised serum C and white blood and red blood cell results. She did attend the surgery 
as asked, on 4 June.  It was recorded as:
Had a chat to patient. In to discuss raised  ESR and Neutrophils. Still smoker, would explain 
neutrophilia. Discussed any possible symptoms of inflammatory disease - no joint troubles, no 
cough/wheeze/SOB, no skin problems.  Admits has had IBS type symptoms intermittently, 
though ironically is actually fine today. To send faecal calprotectin to investigate  possible IBD. 
To be aware of any other symptoms which may suggest  illness.
The test for IBD came back negative. Miss P did not attend her GP again until mid-2016 for matters 
relating to her bowel problems, and the GP did not write to her again.  
Ref: DRN45528119Miss P applied for her policies on 1 December 2015. L&G says it would not have  insured her, 
principally because  of the raised ESR markers but also when looking at those markers in combination 
with her 1) ongoing symptoms 2) fatty liver finding  and 3) other abnormal blood tests and 4) lack of 
diagnosis. 
I dont agree that L&G would have  established  Miss Ps symptoms were  ongoing beyond  mid-2015. 
There is no objective evidence from that time to support that  particularly given  L&G ought  only to 
look at what it would have  done in December  2015, if Miss P had told it about her ultrasound. 
I also dont accept  that the finding  of a fatty liver would have  been a factor in the underwriting decision 
at that time.  The manual  pages supplied by L&G do not bear that out. It shows that an applicant with 
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease who does not have raised  liver enzymes would be offered  standard  
terms. Miss Ps GP confirmed  her liver function tests were  normal. 
If L&G had sought Miss Ps medical  records in late 2015, it would have firstly  referred to general 
underwriting on blood tests  which says that if blood tests have  been carried out due to medical 
symptoms, the underwriter will need details of any diagnosis made, treatment required  and results of 
investigations. 
The specific  erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) guidance says how levels  of up to [redacted] may 
occur without apparent disease. But it goes on to qualify  that by saying  such outlying readings  
(above the maximum SI unit reference rate for females of [redacted]) will have no abnormality on 
clinical examination and normal  serum  proteins. That was not the case with Miss P, since at her last 
recorded GP visit she reported intermittent symptoms and an abnormal serum  blood  test result.  
The underwriting goes on to explain how an abnormal result  must be carefully reviewed. It then goes 
on to give differing measures  for life cover, and critical illness cover.
The manual pages for critical illness cover note how [redacted].
The classification goes  on to say that where an applicant  is recorded  to have more  than [redacted 
amount], critical illness  cover will be postponed until fully investigated.
I know our adjudicator has explained why she felt (along with Miss P) that the matter was fully 
investigated, given no further action was taken after June 2015 by the GP. Our adjudicator  believed it 
likely the GP must have determined the matter fully investigated. L&G takes an opposing view and 
says that an investigation ought to have continued on in the form of a colonoscopy for Miss P. 
It is not my place to determine whether Miss Ps GP ought to have referred her for a colonoscopy  no 
mention was ever made for that type of investigation. I need to decide what L&G ought  reasonably to 
have interpreted  as fully investigated when looking at the medical  records up to the application date.  
Despite the passage of time, I do think it is fair in these circumstances for L&G to conclude that it 
would have required more information on Miss Ps ESR levels. It had been recorded at its highest 
level in May 2015, and from the outset of investigations  the GP had noted  that he was looking for it to 
return to normal. Though I am mindful that the GP had likely considered Miss P to have some type of 
IBS (as opposed to IBD), the test here is if L&G would have  reasonably satisfied itself that Miss P had 
either had the cause for this marker fully investigated or if she had a known  disease, that disease  
could be rated. 
My view is that it isnt possible to say the matter was fully investigated without  L&G being  aware of 
Miss Ps current ESR levels, because the matter had not been pursued in June 2015 despite  the 
levels being at their highest alongside other abnormal  test results. Objectively, I am not satisfied the 
matter had been fully investigated such that the requirement under the underwriting guidance was 
met.  
Ref: DRN455281110On that basis,  I dont  agree  a critical illness  claim  is payable.  I cannot  determine  a point at which L&G 
would likely have been able to offer Miss P cover  for critical illness benefit, because I think  it was 
reasonable to conclude that the cause of her raised ESR levels  wasnt fully investigated  such  that 
L&G could reach an underwriting decision.  
However, I do believe L&G would have likely offered Miss P life assurance. That ESR underwriting 
manual differed. It also noted that cover would  be postponed until fully investigated, but that was 
where the ESR finding was associated with other laboratory abnormalities. However, the GP made 
clear that Miss Ps smoking habit caused her raised neutrophils. And the other findings  were  
fluctuating and when present  they were  marginal  for example, the mean cell volume  blood  test 
result of [redacted amount]  fell just outside of the reference  range of [redacted amount]. Miss P also 
had normal liver function test results. 
Im also mindful  that the underwriting  guidance says that an applicant  with an ESR of between  
[redacted amounts]  will be insured (providing  the applicant has a negative  medical  history) but with a 
rating of +50. I believe that is the most likely underwriting  outcome for Miss Ps life assurance.
 
putting things right
I believe L&G would not have  been able to offer Miss P critical illness insurance because it required 
investigations to be fully completed.  Whilst I accept there was no further action intended  by Miss Ps 
GP (such as a referral for a colonoscopy), it was noted throughout the medical file that her ESR 
markers should be expected to return to normal, yet the last recorded reading  was [redacted].  I 
believe a reasonable interpretation of fully investigated  on this basis would  include further review of 
the inflammatory markers as any underwriter was required  to carefully review any abnormal result.   
I therefore  do not intend  to uphold  the part of the complaint  about the refusal  of the critical illness  
claim.   
However, the underwriting for life assurance differs, and it would allow  insurance terms to be offered  
to Miss P albeit with a further rating of +50. For the reasons Ive explained, I do not believe a fair 
reading of the underwriting is to associate Miss Ps ESR levels with other laboratory abnormalities, as 
these were either sufficiently explained or within acceptable tolerance levels. 
I therefore  intend  to propose that Miss Ps life assurance policy is reinstated  from the date of my 
decision. In these  particular circumstances, I do not feel Miss P ought to repay the policy premiums 
since the date of cancellation in 2018 because she was not at fault for the cancellation of her life 
cover  I think it was open to L&G to determine the difference  between  the acceptable risk for life 
insurance and critical illness insurance.   
Miss P will need to return the premiums  she was refunded for the policy, if she wishes to have it 
reinstated. I would expect  that she should do so within  six months of the date of acceptance of the 
decision, if she accepts it.  
L&G will need  to determine the cost of Miss Ps policy  going forward, given a second rating would 
need to be applied. It should inform her of this cost before she decides whether she would like to keep 
the policy.   
I would also require L&G to confirm  if the critical illness policy was severable  as it appeared  to 
include life cover alongside.  If so, it ought to determine  the cost of offering just the life assurance 
element of that policy effective 14 December  2015  in the same way as the freestanding life policy.   
I also propose to maintain the award  of £500  suggested by our adjudicator for the upset  caused to 
Miss P by the cancellation of her policies at what has been a very difficult  time for her and her family.   
I dont intend to make any other award.  
Ref: DRN455281111my provisional  decision
I propose to uphold the decision in part, for the reasons set out above. 
I now invite  the parties to let me have  in writing  any further submissions  they may wish to make by 21 
December 2018. After  this, I will issue my final decision. 
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4552811