K820x#14complaint
Miss L is complaining that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited (Admiral) has held her 
partially responsible  for an accident  after a claim was made  on her car insurance  policy.
background
In December 2017 Miss L was involved in an incident with another car. She says the other 
driver hit her stationary car. She contacted Admiral to discuss the incident,  but she said she 
was concerned that it would affect  her policy. Admiral  said that, because it appeared she 
wasnt at fault for the incident, it could  refer her claim to a credit hire company  who I shall 
refer to as A. It explained that this would  mean  she wouldnt have to pay her excess  or lose 
her No Claims Discount (NCD). Miss L chose to claim  through  A.
But in January 2017 the other drivers  insurer disputed Miss Ls version of events and said 
that Miss L had reversed  into their car. A contacted Admiral to advise as such and it said it 
had been trying to contact  Miss L to arrange  the repairs to her car, but it said it hadnt been 
able to get hold of her.
Admiral says that it tried to call Miss L on 23 February 2018, but Miss L didnt answer. So it 
says it emailed her explaining that it needed to discuss  the claim with her. Miss L didnt  
contact Admiral, so it says it tried to call her again  on 17 April 2018, but she didnt answer. 
Admiral then chose to settle the claim on a 50/50 split liability  basis and it reduced  her NCD.
Miss L later complained  that Admiral  had settled the claim without telling  her. She said she 
only found out it had done so when she asked for proof of her NCD. She also said she was 
told she wouldnt lose her NCD if she used A. Finally she said she wanted  to complain about 
the service A gave.
Admiral said it listened  to the call when Miss L first reported the claim and it agreed it told 
Miss L her NCD wouldnt be affected.  It explained this was because it didnt think  she was at 
fault for the accident based on what Miss L first reported. But it said the other driver gave a 
different version  of events. And it said that, as it didnt hear from Miss L, it made a decision 
to settle on a split liability  basis. It said it did so because it had a duty to keep  costs  to a 
minimum and looks  to avoid litigation where  possible. It says it advised her it had done  so on 
26 July 2018.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding  this complaint. And I said the following:
I note Miss L is unhappy  she was told she wouldnt lose her NCD if she went through  a 
credit hire company. And its not disputed that she was told as such. But this was on the 
basis that Miss L wasnt at fault for the accident. Based on what Miss L said had happened,  I 
think it was fair for Admiral to initially think its likely Miss L wasnt at fault. But the other 
drivers insurer  gave a different version  of events which  suggested Miss L was at fault for the 
accident. And it claimed for their damage  on Miss Ls policy.  So while Miss L hasnt made  a 
claim for the damage to her car through her policy, the other driver has done  so.
I can see that Admiral did try and call Miss L in February 2018, but it wasnt  able to speak to 
her. Its also provided us with a copy of the email that it sent to Miss L in February  2018  and 
it said the other drivers insurer had provided a different version of events and it said:
Ref: DRN46352282My initial  thoughts are that liability will be 50/50 however in order to assess this further I 
would like to speak to the driver of the vehicle on the day of the incident.  
I would like to hear from the driver in the next 7 days to ensure that the information I have is 
as detailed as possible. Unfortunately if I do not hear from you within 7 days  I will look to 
offer a 50/50 split liability.
So Im satisfied Admiral did try to contact  Miss L to discuss this claim, but Miss L didnt reply.
This service isnt able to say whos at fault for an accident, as thats the responsibility of the 
courts. Our role is to look at whether Admiral  carried  out a fair investigation,  reviewed all the 
evidence it had and came to a reasonable decision.
Miss Ls policy, like all other car insurance policies, allowed Admiral to conduct the defence  
or settlement of any claim. So it was entitled  to settle the claim on the best terms it thought 
fit and it had the ultimate and final say in how to settle a claim.  But it needed to exercise this 
right fairly and reasonably.
Admiral advised Miss L that the other driver had given a different version of events and 
asked her to contact it to discuss  the claim further. But it appears  she didnt do so. Ultimately 
both parties had given different versions of events and Miss L hadnt  provided anything to 
support her version of events over the other drivers.  So I cant say that Admiral  acted 
unfairly in choosing to settle on split liability basis. And, as its had to settle 50% of the other 
drivers claim, it was entitled to reduce Miss Ls NCD accordingly.
Miss L has also complained that Admiral didnt tell her it had settled the claim. Admiral  says 
that it wrote to her in July 2018 to explain it had done so. I havent seen anything definitive to 
support this. But I dont  think  Miss L has lost out as a result of this because shes ultimately 
unhappy that shes lost her NCD. And, as I said, I dont think Admiral acted unreasonably in 
this respect. I dont think Miss L has lost out from Admiral  not initially  explaining how it had 
settled the claim. So I dont think  it needs to compensate her for this.
Finally, I note Miss L is unhappy with the way A handled her claim. But A was a separate 
company to Admiral.  So Admiral isnt responsible for As actions and shell  need  to complain 
to A directly  if she wishes to take this issue further.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything further  to think  about,  I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached  in my provisional decision. So I dont uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN46352283my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4635228