K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1998. Mr and Mrs B say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold  them  this policy with a 
joint loan they had.
background
This type of PPI policy required the payment to be made up front in one single payment at 
the beginning of the loan.  
Mr and Mrs Bs loan was for £4,000 over 60 months. The PPI cost £754 payable  over the 
same term and both the loan and PPI were then subject to interest. Overall, Mr and Mrs B 
would have been required to pay £1,050 for the PPI policy. It covered Mr B in the event of 
being unable  to work or losing his job. Mrs B wasnt covered by the PPI.
Our adjudicator who looked at this case recommended that the complaint should be upheld 
because they thought  Mr Bs employment status  could have made it difficult  for him to make  
a successful claim for unemployment, in certain  situations.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
These events took place  some time ago but the crux of the matter  is what Mr Bs 
employment status was at the time. Our adjudicator noted that Mr B was self-employed  and 
this is agreed by both the parties.  However he appeared  to also be in a sub-contracting  
situation and on a fixed term contract. Mr B says he was aware  of the end date of the 
contract.
The PPI policy rules  said that You will not receive benefit of unemployment in the following 
circumstances..unemployment after the end of a fixed-term contract; or a contract for a 
specific task.
Nationwide had a duty to present the PPI policy in a way that was clear, fair and not mis-
leading. This included pointing out the main features  of the cover  so Mr and Mrs B could 
make an informed decision about what they wanted  to do.
Although Nationwide was able to send us copies of many  of the documents used during the 
sale, I dont think theres  much evidence that Mr and Mrs B were  told about the policy rules. I 
say this because  neither  the application form nor the loan agreement pointed  out that Mr Bs 
employment might be caught  under the rules. And I think if these things  had been  pointed 
out, I dont  think Mr and Mrs B would have  thought  this type of cover  was right for their 
situation. I think they would have considered it poor value for money.
Nationwide disagreed that the policy rules would have made claiming difficult for Mr B. It 
says all that would have been  required to make a successful claim for unemployment, was 
Ref: DRN45238612that he would have needed to provide  evidence  to show he was unemployed, and that he 
became so not of his own making.
However, Ive looked carefully at what Nationwide has had to say about  the policy and the 
rules. And I disagree. In my view the above  rules were set out in the policy for a reason and 
the information about fixed term contracts  would clearly have been of significant interest to 
Mr and Mrs B. Had Mr B ended his contract and then been unable  to find work,  I think  the 
policy rules would have  meant he wasnt able to make a claim for this.  
The evidence in the case tends to show Mr Bs job situation would have been known to 
those involved in selling the PPI. Theres no evidence this important issue  in the rules was 
discussed or brought to Mr and Mrs Bs attention. So Im upholding their complaint.
what Nationwide should  do to put matters right 
Mr and Mrs B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it should have 
been and they paid more  than they should have each month. So Mr and Mrs B need  to get 
back the extra they paid. So, Nationwide should:
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs B the difference between what they paid each month 
on the loan and what they would  have paid each month without  PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Nationwide  can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide must  give 
Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
Ive upheld this complaint  and I direct Nationwide Building Society to pay the compensation 
Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4523861