K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Insure The Box Limited cancelled her motor insurance policy without 
notifying her.
background
Miss H took the policy out on 22 March 2019. Insure  The Box wrote to Miss H four days later 
saying she needed  to provide documents and other information by 2 April 2019 or the policy 
would be cancelled the next day. It also messaged her by text and by email. Miss H called 
Insure the Box to say she didnt have some of the documents, including  the V5 registration 
document. She said shed just changed  her address, and the amended  V5 hadnt yet been 
sent to her from the DVLA. Insure the Box said she should provide all the information she 
had. Miss H did so. And she said shed  send on the V5 document  as soon as she had it.
Insure the Box wrote to Miss H again on 5 April 2019. It said she must provide the remaining 
documents by 14 April 2019 or the policy would be cancelled the next day. It also emailed 
the message to Miss H and sent her a text message. Miss H said she didnt  get any of the 
messages. So she only became  aware  that her policy had been cancelled  on 15 April 2019 
when Insure  the Box contacted her again to inform her of it.
One of our investigators  considered Miss Hs complaint. She thought  it was reasonable for 
Insure the Box to cancel  the policy. She thought  it could show  that it had given Miss H 
sufficient notice of the pending cancellation.
Miss H said the letter  Insure  the Box sent to her on 5 April 2019 was returned to it and she 
wasnt aware it had been  sent. She explained  the difficulties the cancellation had caused 
her. Miss H said she had struggled to find other insurance and now had problems in getting 
transport to work. She asked for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
I think Insure the Box can show that it made  every effort to contact Miss H about the 
potential cancellation  of the policy. It was only required  to write to Miss H at her last known  
address. Yet I think its shown it also sent her an email and a text message on both 
occasions that it warned her about  a possible cancellation. 
Insure the Box says it got the letter it sent to Miss H on 5 April 2019  back  from the Royal  
Mail. But all it needs to do is show that the letter was sent to the right address. It cant  be 
blamed for postal  failures.  And in this case it also contacted Miss H by other means. It isnt 
clear why Miss H didnt get the email  it sent to her on 5 April 2019, or the text message 
which its system  recorded as Delivered. 
I think Insure the Box acted within its terms and conditions by cancelling the policy  due to 
Miss H not having provided all the documents it needed to validate the policy. I think  it gave  
her sufficient notice of the cancellation. It had already tried to assist Miss H previously by 
extending the deadline for the remaining  documents. I know Miss H is upset because she 
says she would have  contacted Insure the Box before  14 April 2019 had she been aware of 
the new deadline. But I think Insure  the Box did all it could  to make her aware  of it.
Ref: DRN49971962I sympathise with the situation Miss H has found herself in, especially as it seems her health 
has been badly  affected by it. But as I dont think Insure the Box has acted unreasonably, I 
cant uphold her complaint.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4997196