K820x#14complaint
Mrs A is unhappy Legal Quest Plc have  charged a fee for a review of her mortgage.
background
In July 2017 Mrs A appointed Legal Quest to investigate the status of her mortgage with her 
mortgage lender.  She signed  an agreement  that authorised Legal Quest to conduct a Data 
Subject Access  Request  (DSAR). And a retainer fee of £260 was paid in advance.
In August  2017,  Legal Quest  sent the DSAR, along with the required statutory £10 fee to 
Mrs As mortgage lender.  The lender  didnt  respond and so Legal Quest sent another  DSAR  
request in October 2017. Legal  Quest  kept Mrs A updated about what it had done.  After the 
second request  Legal Quest  told Mrs A her mortgage lender hadnt  sent all of the information 
it had asked for, but there was sufficient to show Mrs A could make  a dispute claim.
Legal Quest gave Mrs A a number of options  she could take. One of which  was a No Win 
No Fee agreement  with Legal Quest  to pursue a Mortgage Securitisation  Claim (MSC).
In February 2019  Mrs A said she no longer  had a mortgage and asked Legal Quest to refund 
her the remaining £250  of her retainer fee (£10 of the fee had been paid to her mortgage 
lender for the DSAR).
Legal Quest said its terms and conditions made clear any mortgage  had to have at least  
three years to run for a MSC  to be made.  It said it would withdraw the claim, at no charge. 
But said it has it had done the work it had charged Mrs A for, so it wouldnt refund the £250 
Mrs A had paid.
Mrs A wasnt  happy with Legal Quests response and referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator said Legal Quest had been clear in its terms and conditions about the 
payment and had done some work for Mrs A. So, he didnt think  Legal Quest had done 
anything wrong.
Mrs A didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Legal Quest has already withdrawn the MSC at no charge to Mrs A. So, in considering this 
complaint Im looking at whether Legal  Quest  has acted fairly and reasonably  in not 
refunding Mrs A £250 for the work  it did before it made the MSC, as this is the work Mrs A 
has been charged for and is asking to be refunded.
In July 2017, Mrs A signed an Agent Authority Letter (AAL)  which  instructed Legal Quest to 
act on her behalf in submitting a DSAR  to her mortgage lender. Legal Quest said it sent 
Mrs A its terms and conditions, and I have no reason  to doubt this as Mrs A in signing the 
AAL confirms she had read and understood the terms and conditions. 
Ref: DRN41580652Legal Quest also sent a Pre-Contract  Guide. This guide explained it would submit  a DSAR 
to her lender and would:
review and validate the mortgage  documentation  it received and prepare a formal  report
 
The guide  goes on to explain to Mrs A that she could send the DSAR request herself at no 
cost. But if :
   you  choose to appoint  Legal Quest  Plcthere  is currently  a retainer/contribution of 
£260 payable  in advance. 
This fee it said included  any fees payable, for submitting the DSAR, which  I would 
understand to include  the statutory fee of £10.
In August  2017  Legal Quest  did submit the DSAR  request. And after Mrs As mortgage 
lender responded by sending the documentation, Legal Quest did review  it and sent its 
opinion to Mrs A. So, I dont think Legal Quest  has been unfair or unreasonable in not 
refunding Mrs A the remainder of her retention fee of £250, (Ive accepted  £10 of the fee had 
been paid to her mortgage lender). As I think Legal Quest has done what  Mrs A instructed it 
to do.
In February 2019,  Mrs A said she no longer  had a mortgage and asked for the £250 to be 
refunded. But Legal Quests terms and conditions give a statutory 14 days  to cancel the 
agreement to be able to receive  a full refund. As Mrs A signed the AAL in July 2017 her 
request for a full refund fell outside  of the 14-day cancellation period.
I can understand Mrs As frustration as she has paid a fee that she doesnt feel is justified.  
But as Ive outlined  above Legal Quest has done  what it said it would, so Im not asking  
Legal Quest to refund  Mrs A the £250 fee shes paid.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020. 
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4158065