K821x#15complaint
Miss W and Mr Ss complaint  is about  the handling of a claim made  under their home
emergency insurance cover with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA).
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in September 2019, part of which  is copied  
below: 
On 4 October 2017, Miss W and Mr S made  a claim under their policy with RSA. The
problem was recorded as being an electrical failure affecting the heating...fuse box is
sparking. I understand  they had no heating and no hot water.
An engineer  attended the following  day who said there was also an electrical fault with the
immersion heater. However he told Miss W and Mr S that he wasnt sure what was causing
the issue and could not repair it on that visit.
I understand that Miss W and Mr S had to chase RSA for details of what repairs  were
required and when  they would be carried out. RSA told them that a repair  quote  was being
prepared and this was finally completed on 11 October 2017. The quote  to repair  the system
 a faulty thermostat  and wiring - came  to £492,  Miss W and Mr Ss policy with RSA provides
cover for repairs up to £250 only, so they were  asked to pay the difference  of £242  (which
included the cost of a new thermostat)  which they did on the same  day.
Another engineer  attended on 27 October  2017  to carry out the repairs  but while  he was
there, he diagnosed that the printed circuit board (PCB) also needed replacing. I
understand he left the system  such that they could use the immersion heater to obtain hot
water, while  a further quote was prepared  for the PCB replacement. The final repair was
carried out on 6 November 2017,  apparently without replacing the PCB. Miss W and Mr S
are unhappy  with the way the claim was dealt with and have raised  a number of points,
which Ive summarised below:
As a result  of being without hot water, they had to travel 20 miles  each day to use a
relatives shower during the period when  they had no hot water at all. Apparently,
RSA told them that it would reimburse their petrol  costs but this hasnt happened.
After 27 October 2017, they were able to use the immersion  heater but this meant
they had to remember to turn it on in time before needing to use the hot water.
This caused increased  electricity costs.
They dont understand why the repairs couldnt  be completed earlier than they were.
They had to chase  RSA for updates  and information
They had to buy the thermostat and do not know if it was actually needed or not. The
fact that the PCB needed to be replaced and the thermostat  they paid for didnt fix
the problem, suggests it wasnt necessary.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. He recommended that the complaint be
upheld, as he thought that RSA had not carried out the expected  repairs  within  a reasonable
time and this had resulted in distress  and inconvenience, as well as out-of-pocket expenses
for Miss W and Mr S. The adjudicator recommended that RSA pay a total of £400
compensation (to include the £225 already  offered by RSA) and £15 per day for the days
they had to travel to a relatives house to use their shower facilities.
RSA does not accept the adjudicators assessment.  It says that its service  level agreement
Ref: DRN45617302provides for a claim  response within three days of a claim  being  notified, so while there  was
six days from the date of the first appointment to the second, this was only three  days  more
than its service level agreement would have allowed.
The quote  exceeded the £250 policy limit, therefore the work required became part
insurance claim and part private agreement between Miss W and M S and the contractor.
RSA says the required parts took 15 days to come into stock; on 27 October 2017 it was
established that a gas engineer was required and he went out on 6 November and sorted
the problem.
RSA says that its policy terms and conditions state: "We will not pay for any inconvenience,
loss or damage caused by delay in the provision of spare parts or components by
manufacturers or suppliers". And there's no provision in the policy  to pay over the £250
policy limit, so it wouldn't pay for a policyholder  having to travel  to use washing facilities.
RSA says the £250 already offered (by it and its contractor) is reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint; anything more would not be proportionate.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It took approximately a month for RSA to carry out the repair.  Miss W and Mr S were  entitled
to expect the repair to be completed  a lot quicker than this. After  all this policy is intended  to
cover emergency situations exactly like the one they found themselves in.
RSA says that much of the delay was because it was waiting for parts and its contractual
terms mean it is not responsible for this. I do not agree that this absolves it of responsibility
for the delays. RSA,  like a lot of insurers, uses contractors to fulfil its obligations under the
policy. However, it is responsible for anything done  or not done on its behalf  by any such
contractors as they are acting as RSAs agents. RSA also says that part of the work was
private but I do not consider this changes this.
The contractors took considerable time in quoting for the work required (five days on the first
occasion), didnt send  a gas engineer  when one was required and then waited 15 days for
parts. In my opinion  most  of this time was unnecessary and could have been avoided.  There
seems to me to be no reasonable explanation  why it would take so long to prepare the
quotes and to make sure that a suitably  qualified contractor was available to carry out the
work required. There is also no good  explanation as to why the parts took so long to obtain.
RSAs notes say the part was ordered  direct from the manufacturer  but there is also a note
that the agents had the wrong part numbers and had therefore  ordered the wrong  part. The
part does not appear to have been unusual or difficult to obtain  generally based on the
evidence available.
In addition, there is some doubt as to whether parts that RSA said were needed (i.e. the
thermostat and PCB) were needed at all. The notes  of the attendances are not clear but it
appears the PCB was not replaced  and the repair on 6 November 2017 involved adjusting
the boiler but no new parts. The thermostat  may have still been  required but this is not
entirely clear  from the information available to me.
Ref: DRN45617303For all these reasons, I do not consider that RSA can reasonably rely on the policy term it
has quoted to avoid responsibly  for this. It also does seem to have accepted this itself,  as it
has offered a total of £250 compensation already.
I agree  with the investigator therefore  that some  additional  compensation  is warranted  but do
not agree  that the amount  he has recommended is reasonable. We would not normally
award a daily tariff in the way he has suggested. I do not doubt  that Miss W and Mr S
travelled to relatives to shower on some occasions,  however,  I consider that a global award
to reflect  the distress and inconvenience of the delays, the number of attendances, having  to
chase what was happening and having  to travel to use alternative washing facilities is more
appropriate. I consider  overall that £400  is appropriate and in line with other  awards made in
similar situations.
I also consider that the cost of the thermostat and the amount Miss W and Mr S paid towards
the work  required to fit it, should be reimbursed unless RSA can provide persuasive
evidence that this was required as part of the repair of the heating system. The evidence
currently available to me does not make this clear.
I know that Miss W and Mr S will be disappointed with this decision, having already received
a recommendation  from the investigator  that they should receive a higher award. However,
both parties are entitled to appeal to an ombudsman   the final stage in our process 
and it is my role to review  the matter afresh and make my own decision as to the
appropriate outcome.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc and require  it to
pay Miss W and Mr S the sum of £400 in compensation for the distress  and inconvenience
caused by its handling  of the claim; and unless it can provide persuasive evidence  that the
part was necessary, it should  also reimburse  the amount Miss W and Mr S paid towards the
claim.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further arguments or 
information they want considered. 
RSAs response to my provisional  decision
RSA confirmed receipt of the provisional  decision.  It does not accept my provisional findings. 
RSA says that the repair took longer than usual as the thermostat had to come directly from 
the manufacturer. The matter was escalated to senior staff at the suppliers and it chased for 
updates regularly. The thermostat was fitted on 27 October 2017 and the report  from the 
contractors says: replaced  faulty Stat with new unit, located and sorted wiring fault. PCB will 
require replacing,  partly repaired so tenant can override  for hot water, waiting for quote from 
engineer. RSA has also provided a photograph that it says shows  the newly fitted  
thermostat and cylinder. RSA says therefore  that it is unable  to reimburse the cost of the 
thermostat as this was needed and fitted.  
The engineer attended again on 6 November 2017. It didnt receive a quote for a PCB and 
none was fitted,  as the engineer made  some  adjustment  to the pump  speed  and pressure,  
tested everything and the matter was resolved. 
Ref: DRN45617304RSA and its contractors  agree  that there were delays in obtaining quote and for this reason 
offered a total of £250.00 as a gesture of goodwill. It is still of the opinion that this amount is 
adequate.
Miss W and Mr Ss response to my provisional decision  
They are disappointed that the compensation recommended by the investigator  has been 
reduced. They say it feels  like RSA and its contractors have been let off lightly, despite their 
inconsiderate behaviour at a really  distressing  time for them. I will summarise  their 
submissions below: 
The stress caused by the difficulties they had in their communications  with the 
contractors and in not having any hot water  or heating, has been missed  or forgotten  
due to the significant time passed  since the event occurred. 
I said that apparently  RSA confirmed it would reimburse their travel costs.  This is 
frustrating as it insinuates  that this didnt  happen, when  RSA will have the ability to 
track down this recorded call and if it doesnt, they shouldnt be punished  for that 
failing. It was RSAs  complaints department  that made this offer, who then didnt 
contact them again, which  is yet another failing. 
Being  able to use the immersion heater only did not only mean increased electricity  
costs and remembering to put it on, it meant  broken sleep due to having to get up 
two hours before  they needed  to, to turn it on so they could  wash  prior to going  out to 
work each morning. 
I also mention that there was only a period of six days between  the first and second 
appointment, which according  is incorrect. There  was a period  of three to four weeks  
between the first appointment and the second when  the engineers came out to fit the 
part they had to wait so long for.
I said that it was established  on 27 October that a gas engineer  was required, which 
also isnt correct. On 27 October, they were told the boiler needed a new electric 
circuit board that could cost up to a further £400.  They  still dont know why a gas 
engineer turned up but he resolved the issue by reading through the boiler  manual 
and making some  adjustments.
RSAs terms may state  that they will not pay for any inconvenience,  loss or damage 
caused by delay in the provision  of spare parts or components by manufacturers  or 
suppliers"  however, the delay  was caused by it not ordering the part in a timely  
manner rather than the supplier delaying this. Also, this term was not stated to them  
whilst corresponding with RSAs complaints department so seems they have now 
had sufficient time to dig it out.
The £250 offered by RSA is effectively it waiving the excess, rather  than providing  a 
compensation payment. 
The sentence  that states  there  is no doubt they travelled on some  occasions doesnt 
sit too well as it comes across that our account of what happened is not fully 
believed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have already set out in my provisional  decision that the policy terms which  state that RSA is 
not responsible  for any inconvenience  caused  by delays by its contractors does not, in my 
Ref: DRN45617305opinion, absolve  it of all responsibility. I determined that it was responsible for some of the 
distress and inconvenience caused because  there  were unnecessary and avoidable delays  
in dealing with the claim,  in my opinion.  
Miss W and Mr S have also said that I recorded that there  was only a few days  delay 
between attendances by the different engineers.  This is not correct.  In the first few 
paragraphs of the background section of my provisional decision, I said the first attendance  
was on 4 October 2017; the quote for repair was completed on 11 October  2017 and then a 
further 15 days after that were spent waiting for parts. The next appointment was 27 October 
2017 (i.e. 23 days later)  but further  issues were  diagnosed and the boiler was not finally  
repaired until 6 November  2017. I acknowledged  that it took around a month in total to repair  
the boiler properly  and that this was not done  as quickly  as it should have been and that 
much of this time was avoidable.  This is why I considered that some  compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the time spent dealing with the claim  was warranted.  
I do not doubt that Miss W and Mr S travelled to relatives to use their facilities. But as 
explained in my provisional decision  we do not normally award compensation at a daily rate 
such as was recommended by the investigator here.  Instead, a global  award  to take into 
account all the distress and inconvenience  caused to them is more appropriate. 
I also dont doubt  they were  told RSA would reimburse any additional costs incurred by 
them. This wasnt followed  up as a daily rate either  but they were offered compensation. I 
dont consider this unreasonable overall.  The waiving of the excess  costs still counts as 
compensation, as otherwise Miss W and Mr S would have to pay this amount. 
I have had regard  to all the circumstances and the trouble this matter caused  to Miss W and 
Mr S, including having to use the immersion heater, travel to use bathing facilities,  chase 
RSA and the number of appointments. Having considered everything, I remain  of the opinion 
that the total compensation of £400 is appropriate  to reflect the distress  and inconvenience  
caused to Miss W and Mr S in this matter, and is in line with awards made  in similar cases.  
There was some lack of clarity with regard to the thermostat but I am now satisfied this was 
fitted and there is no evidence that it was not needed or was an unreasonable  repair to carry 
out. I do not therefore propose to ask RSA to reimburse this cost.  
Ref: DRN45617306my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc and require it to
pay Miss W and Mr S the sum of £400 in compensation for the distress  and inconvenience
caused by its handling  of the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W and Mr S
to accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4561730