K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about the transfer of assets from Barclays  Bank  UK Plc trading as 
Barclays Stockbrokers (Barclays)  to the new Smart Investor platform. 
He believes he has suffered financial loss because of the forced sale of his shares in a UK 
telecoms company.  Hes also unhappy about  the overall service provided,  including; the 
incorrect book price  being displayed; his inability  to view previous trades on new platform; 
and problems trading.  
background 
In my provisional decision of 24 May 2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms part of this 
final decision, I upheld  the complaint and thought Barclays should pay Mr M £300  
compensation for trouble  and upset. 
Barclays responded and accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr M responded after being contacted  by our service and disagreed  with my provisional 
decision. In summary,  he said:
His points havent been considered and issues around the book cost havent been 
resolved. As a result  he doesnt  understand the provisional decision. 
Every time he wants to sell his shares he has to re-calculate  the value. 
If hed acted in the same way as Barclays hed be accused of fraud. 
The Version issue didnt just happen to him but many customers.
He wants an explanation as to why we feel an additional £100 is adequate 
compensation. 
He held on to shares  as a matter of principle  and now theyve  reduced  in value so 
how can the ombudsman say hes not suffered a loss. 
He wanted  to know why Barclays had no record of an email  he found dated  18 May 
2017 entitled Transfer of Holdings  to New Platform, but hasnt provided a copy.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of the submissions, Im going to uphold this complaint. 
Im sorry  Mr M feels I havent covered all his points. Ive covered the points I consider to be 
relevant to my decision and therefore  I dont feel it necessary to go over the points again in 
detail.
I appreciate Mr M feels that an additional  £100 compensation, to give a total of £300, is 
insufficient. But in the circumstances, for the reasons Ive already explained in my 
provisional decision, on balance I think its broadly fair and reasonable. 
Whether Mr M chose to hold on to the shares  in question, as a matter  of principle or 
otherwise, is a matter  for him. I understand that he was given the option  to sell but chose to 
stay put. I dont think I can blame  the business  for his decision and the consequences of it. 
Ref: DRN47660302Its likely  that other Barclays customers were affected by similar  issues but that doesnt  
impact on Mr Ms complaint. Its for the other customers  to decide whether or not they want 
to pursue a complaint. Im afraid  it doesnt  make Mr Ms complaint  any more, or less, 
meritorious. 
Im aware of other points that Mr M has made  that are to do with the service hes received 
from us which I dont  need to comment upon in this decision. 
Im mindful of the comments Mr M makes about the email hes just discovered  Im afraid  I 
cant answer for Barclays, and dont  know if it has a copy  or why it hasnt provided a copy.  
This wasnt an issue raised as part of the primary complaint.
Furthermore, Mr M hasnt provided  a copy of the document he says hes found, it might  be it 
doesnt take matters  further or I think its likely he wouldve provided a copy  to refute my 
provisional findings. That notwithstanding, Ive based my decision on a balance of 
probabilities, and on the available evidence, and what I think is more  likely than not to have 
happened. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.  
Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Mr M £300 compensation for trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN47660303COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr M complains about  the transfer of assets from Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as 
Barclays Stockbrokers  (Barclays) to the new Smart  Investor platform. 
He believes he has suffered financial loss because of the forced sale of his shares  in a UK telecoms 
company. Hes also unhappy about the overall service provided,  including the incorrect book price  
being displayed, his inability to view previous  trades on new platform, and problems  trading. 
background
One of our investigators considered the complaint  but initially didnt think it should  be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
In 2014, the UK telecoms company undertook corporate action which affected  Mr Ms 
shareholdings. He was in line to receive a cash payment and a Crest Depository Interests  
(CDIs) in Verizon Communications. 
Although the CDIs are a UK held investment, its listed on an overseas exchange. And 
because of operation restrictions Barclays were unable to hold the CDIs in Mr Ms account.     
In January 2014, it wrote  to Mr M offering  four options, along with the default position  which  
was to sell the CDIs and treat both the CDIs and cash as income. Barclays wrote to Mr M, 
making clear that if it didnt  hear from him itd take the default option on his behalf. 
Mr M is unhappy about the drop in value of his remaining shares, because  the value of the 
CDIs had been removed. But he cant  hold Barclays responsible for a drop in value due to 
corporate action. 
The letter  contained Mr Ms current address, rather than his address at the time,  because it 
was automatically updated by the computer. 
The £100  compensation  offered by Barclays for the way the book costs were shown for some 
of the investments was fair and reasonable. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, he said:
The errors were more serious.  
He wanted more information from the Barclays addressing his concerns. 
Barclays failed to give an adequate answer about what was going  on and provide updates.  
This has been going on for a long time.  
Mr M is aware that the book costs arent a profit and loss calculator. 
Our investigator having considered the issues  was persuaded  to change  his mind only in relation to 
the redress.  In summary he said:
Theres a difference between book costs  and the profit and loss calculator,  which takes into 
account trading history   which  Barclays can send or is available online. 
Barclays said that it had fixed the book  cost issues. 
Having considered  everything, he feels the distress and inconvenience payment should be 
increased to £200.   
Mr M disagreed and in short said:
The information sought from Barclays  was irrelevant to Mr M.
The book costs for some of his shares are still wrong. 
Barclays arent telling the truth or providing  the correct information  its accounting  is poor. 
Ref: DRN47660304Recently Mr M bought and sold some shares in an Australian business, when he queried why 
the book costs  were incorrect he was told this might be because the shares were Australian. 
If that was the case why were his UK share prices incorrect?
Every time he sold something he had to recalculate, otherwise hed be selling at a loss.  
Hed like a conformation of the book costs and wants to obtain all the information  about  the 
dealings. 
Barclays are unable  to provide a copy  of an email it sent. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, subject  to any further submissions, provisionally Im minded to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that the overall redress offered is fair 
and reasonable. I think Barclays should pay Mr M an additional £100  on top of the £200 suggested 
by the investigator  making a total of £300. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ms strength  of feeling  about this matter.  
He has provided detailed submissions to support  the complaint,  which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose  of my decision isnt to address every single  point raised. My role is to consider the 
evidence presented by Mr M and the Barclays  not to obtain what either  party would like me to obtain 
 and reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable  decision based on the facts of the 
case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant  law, regulation and best 
industry practice but Im not bound by it. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Its generally a matter for Barclays - in the exercise  of its legitimate commercial  judgement  - how it 
runs its business. It isnt for our service to tell it how to do this, so I cant realistically say Barclays was 
wrong for choosing to change to a new platform or that it was an error for it to have done so.  
The consequence of migrating to a new platform has caused Mr M some considerable distress and 
inconvenience. I note hes been unable to trade,  unable  to view old trades, and has had to personally 
recalculate values so he doesnt lose out. I dont think this is acceptable. 
Despite what Barclays says,  it seems it still hasnt corrected the book cost values. Whilst  I dont think 
this is an example of Barclays deliberately trying to mislead Mr M I think  its more  likely  (than not) as a 
result of migrating to the new platform. But despite this Barclays hasnt been able to give Mr M a 
satisfactory answer to his queries, effectively leaving  him in the dark.  
I note Barclays already agreed that it should pay Mr M £200 for the trouble and upset caused by the 
incorrect book costs.  But I think  given  the above Barclays should increase its offer of compensation  to 
£300, to take into account the overall distress and inconvenience hes experienced,  which in my view 
hasnt been adequately addressed. 
I note because  of operational restrictions Barclays is unable to hold the CDIs  in Mr Ms account. I 
cant blame Barclays for this, because it seems its only trying to deal with the aftermath of corporate 
action, that it couldnt have envisaged sooner. 
Ref: DRN47660305Barclays gave Mr M options  that he could take, which  I think was reasonable.  It also made clear  that 
in the absence of a response from him itd proceed with the default option, which is what  it did. 
Although Mr M continues to question why Barclays couldnt let him keep his CDIs, in the 
circumstances I dont  think  what  Barclays did was unreasonable.  I also dont think  it can be blamed 
for any drop in share value thats more likely than not due to corporate action.  
On balance Im satisfied that the 2014 copy letter contained Mr Ms current  address, rather than his 
address at the time, because it was automatically updated  by the computer and this was most  likely 
done to prevent the letter  (and other correspondence  in similar circumstances) going to the wrong 
address. 
Im mindful of a number of other issues Mr Ms raised  about the new platform, such  as the extra 
security when contacting Barclays by telephone, removal  of the email contact facility, and sending too 
much correspondence by post.  But I cant blame  Barclays for wanting to keep its customers phone  
dealings secure and wishing to keep customers informed about its migration to a new platform. I dont 
think any of these  issues  have caused Mr M any financial loss or any distress and inconvenience that 
require additional compensation.  
Ive mentioned above that its generally a matter for Barclays how it chooses to run its business.  If Mr 
M has a specific reason  why he would need to email in order to contact the business (rather than call) 
he may wish write to Barclays  so that it may reconsider  this if possible.  
Any other  issues he has about  the shares  he can contact  Barclays  dedicated contact team. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im minded to uphold 
this complaint. 
Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Mr M £300 compensation  for trouble and upset caused.  
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4766030