K820x#14complaint
Miss Ds complains Ramsdens Financial  Limited  (Ramsdens) made mistakes which meant  
she wasnt able to get her pawned jewellery  back.  
background
In 2017, Miss D entered into a loan agreement to pawn an item of jewellery. The loan was to 
be repaid by 13 February 2018. Miss D says a few days after this date passed she went  into 
branch to pay the loan and get her jewellery  back. She says she was told on two occasions  it 
had already been sold. But, in April 2019, Miss D received a letter saying it had just been 
sold. So Miss D says she was given incorrect information in branch. And shes unhappy 
shes not been able to get her jewellery  back.  She says it had sentimental value.
 
Miss D complained to Ramsdens. It said if Miss D had gone into branch in February 2018 
her jewellery  would have  still been there.  It says Miss D was sent a reminder before her 
agreement ended, and following this it gave  her extra time to renew  her loan or by get her 
jewellery before sending  her notice of its intention  to sell it. Ramsden says it acted in line 
with Miss Ds agreement by selling her jewellery. It also says it called Miss D more than 
once. And when she asked it to keep her jewellery a bit longer as her benefits had stopped,  
it delayed putting  it into its sales network  until 24 April 2018. 
Unhappy with this response,  Miss D brought her complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked into it. She said there wasnt enough evidence Miss D visited the branch  asking  to 
redeem the loan in February.  She thought Ramsdens attempted to contact Miss D several 
times after this and agreed to give her further time.  And when it didnt hear back from Miss D 
it sold the jewellery in the way her agreement  allowed it to. 
Miss D didnt agree. She says she recalls  going into branch mid-February  2018  to redeem 
her loan and get her jewellery back,  as it was a few days  after her agreement expired and 
around the time she received an insurance  claim payment that shed wanted to use towards 
it. Miss D also says she didnt receive Ramsdens  letters, as it wrote to her old address when 
shed given it her new one. And she says it knew she didnt have a mobile, as shed been  
burgled. The complaints  been passed to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In complaints such as this, where  what has happened is in dispute, I need  to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. That is, what I think most likely  happened,  given the 
evidence I do have.
Miss Ds given specific reasons why she says shes able to recall  going into branch  when  
she did in February. While Ive taken this into account, she raised her complaint over a year 
after the event  shes complaining about  took place  and Im conscious memory can fade over 
time. Ramsdens contact  notes, which were made at the time, dont show  any evidence a 
branch visit to specifically  redeem  the loan took place,  either  in February  or at a later date.  If 
it had Id expect  the notes  to reflect this considering they show details of visits Miss D made 
on other occasions. 
 
Ref: DRN43653062Contact notes made in late February 2018,  seemingly following Miss D visiting the branch, 
suggest Miss D was aware what was happening with her jewellery and that she wasnt  able 
to repay  the loan at this time. In April 2018  the contact notes show  Ramsdens agreed  to give 
her more time to redeem  the loan at her request when her benefits stopped. These  notes 
were made at the time and as Miss D says she recalls requesting  this it supports that theyre 
accurate, so I think its fair to place more weight on them than Miss Ds recollections.
Ramsdens contact notes show it tried to get in touch with Miss D before and after expiry of 
her agreement, using  different methods. It gave Miss D more time to get in touch with it 
before sending the notice of intended  sale to the address it held for her, giving  14 days  
notice in the way Id expect. While  Miss D says she didnt have a mobile  and had told 
Ramsden shed moved, evidence suggests  she didnt update  her address with it until months  
after it sent the notice. Ive seen  nothing to suggest Miss D made Ramsdens aware  of a new 
contact number. And Ramsdens can only try to get in touch with Miss D using contact details 
its given by her. 
In summary,  I think its most likely  Miss D was aware Ramsdens still had her jewellery  until 
at least April 2018, theres no evidence it heard from her about  it again, except to change her 
address. So I think  Ramsdens acted reasonably by putting her jewellery  into its sales 
network and later selling  it. It may be that she believed the jewellery had been sold,  but I 
havent seen enough to make me think it was Ramsdens which  led her to think this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4365306