K820x#14complaint
Mr W says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a regular payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy to cover  his credit card repayments.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 15 August 2019,  a copy  extract of which is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. Neither HSBC  or Mr W have  given any further information.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained previously, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint against HSBC UK 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
copy extract of provisional decision
background
Following a marketing exercise  Mr W applied for a credit card by post in 2002. At the same time he 
took out a PPI policy to cover his credit  card repayments. The policy cost £0.73 per £100 of the 
balance on Mr Ws credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding  
balance for up to 12 months per claim  if Mr W was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost 
his job.
Ref: DRN44627252Our adjudicator thought Mr Ws complaint should be upheld because he didnt think  it was made  clear  
in the credit card application  that PPI was optional. 
HSBC disagrees.  So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Im currently  thinking of not upholding  Mr Ws complaint.
The PPI was applied  for by post when  Mr W completed a postal application  for a credit card.  HSBC  
havent been  about to give us a copy of Mr Ws application form but it has provided a sample  of the 
application Mr W wouldve completed at the time. 
On this application  form under the section  titled balance protector  protection for just 73p per £100 
the customer  was given the option to take PPI or decline it by ticking a box within the section.  So I 
think because you could select  to take PPI or decline it, it was clear PPI was optional.  And I think that 
Mr W had PPI because he selected to take it rather than it being added  automatically. And I think its 
likely that if Mr W hadnt selected to take PPI he wouldve questioned why it showed  up on his credit 
card statements.
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think HSBC  advised  
Mr W to take PPI. What this means  is that HSBC didnt  recommend  PPI to Mr W, it just gave him 
information about PPI and it was up to Mr W to assess his need in this regard. This information 
needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so he could  make an informed 
choice about buying PPI.
I dont know if HSBC did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if HSBC did give 
all the information Mr W needed to make an informed  choice on taking out the policy, I think he 
wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale: 
He was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the terms and 
conditions of the policy which  couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr W says he wasnt entitled to any sick leave  and besides selling motor  
vehicles he had no other means of making  his credit card payments if he couldnt work  due to 
accident or sickness or if he lost his job. The policy wouldve covered his credit card payments if 
he couldnt work for up to 12 months per claim, so I cant see how knowing this information  
wouldve put him off buying it.
Theres  nothing to suggest the policy  wasnt affordable to Mr W and he could cancel the policy if 
he no longer  wanted  it.
So I dont think it wouldve made  a difference in how the information was given to Mr W on the policy, 
I think  he wouldve still taken  out the policy as it was of value to him.
Which means I currently  dont think HSBC  should pay back the cost of PPI to Mr W.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not think Mr Ws complaint  should  be upheld against HSBC  UK 
Bank Plc.
Ref: DRN44627253Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4462725