K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1997.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Ns credit card account when he applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator who looked at it most recently recommended  that the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary, because Mr N said he was self-employed our adjudicator thought  he 
would've found it particularly difficult to make  a successful unemployment claim on the 
policy. Our adjudicator  said this shouldve been brought to Mr Ns attention before he agreed 
to buy the policy.  As our adjudicator  couldnt  see that this had happened,  and didnt think 
that Mr N wouldve bought the policy if AMEX  had given him clearer  information about  the 
policy terms, he recommended upholding the complaint.
AMEX disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It mainly said the evidence Mr N has 
supplied isnt enough to prove that he was self-employed in 1997.
Weve asked Mr N to tell us a bit more about  his employment circumstances when he took 
out the PPI but we havent heard  anything  further  about this. The complaint came to me to 
decide. I issued  a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr N complained that he wasnt aware  that PPI was optional and could've  been refused  
and he said he wasn't aware he had it on his account.
Mr N applied for his credit  card by filling in a postal application. Its completely 
understandable that Mr N mightve forgotten exactly what happened  so long ago. But the 
way the application is set out makes it clear  that it was up to Mr N to say if he wanted  to take 
out PPI with his credit  card.  And I can see that Mr N ticked  the form he signed to get his 
credit card next to where it says Please enrol  me in the American Express  Credit Card  
Repayment Protection Scheme.... 
So I think Mr N would've seen that it was up to him to say if he wanted PPI  and that he 
chose to have  it. He couldve left this part of the form unticked if he hadnt wanted it.
From what  Ive read and been told I also think its likely AMEX  wouldve written to Mr N 
shortly after hed taken  out the PPI to confirm  the cover hed taken out and explain his 
cancellation rights   so if Mr N hadn't wanted PPI he could've  contacted  AMEX  about it then. 
I've seen nothing  that suggests he did that. 
 
Based on all the information I've seen  so far, I think:
oAMEX made Mr N aware that the PPI was optional
ohe chose to take it out
Ref: DRN46157002othe policy was added  to Mr Ns account  when  he indicated on the form that he 
wanted to have the PPI offered.
AMEX didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr N, so it didnt  have to check the policy was suitable 
for him. But it still had to make sure that it gave Mr N good enough information to make a 
proper decision about whether PPI was right for him. And if that didnt happen, I have to 
think about whether  this makes any overall difference  to the outcome of this complaint. 
Mr N was eligible for the policy when he took it out. 
Mr N told us he didnt have any sick pay and no other way of making  the monthly 
repayments if he wasnt working. The policy covered Mr Ns minimum monthly  repayments  
on his credit card in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment  for up to 24 months 
per claim. So, based on everything hes told us, I think Mr N couldve benefitted  from the 
PPI.   
 
Ive taken into account that Mr N said he was self employed when he applied for this PPI - 
but Ive not seen clear enough information to make me think  hes probably remembered this 
correctly. I say this because when Mr N thought hed been sold the PPI in September 2000, 
he said hed been  in that self-employed  role for 3 years. When  we explained that hed taken 
out the PPI in June 1997 and asked him about  his circumstances then, his representatives 
gave us exactly the same answer - meaning  a different start date. 
So he seems to have  provided contradictory information about  his employment 
circumstances. This means, as things stand, I dont know  when Mr N became self employed 
 and if this happened sometime in 1997 as he first of all told us, then I dont know  if he 
applied for the PPI before or after he became self-employed. So I cant fairly uphold his 
complaint on the basis of the policy terms affecting  self-employed policyholders.
I appreciate this sale was a long time ago and that Mr N probably  needed  some  extra  time to 
obtain the information that shows when he became self employed. But despite our 
adjudicator first enquiring about  this some months  ago, and asking him or his 
representatives again several times since, weve heard nothing at all from Mr N in response 
 so I now have  to decide the case on the available  information. And at the moment,  I cant 
fairly and reasonably say that he was self employed  when he took out the PPI on the 
information Ive seen so far. If Mr N provides  more  information or evidence on this point, Ill 
reconsider his complaint.
Its possible some information AMEX gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. There were some  things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied 
in Mr Ns case if he wasnt self employed when he took out the PPI  and I havent  seen 
enough so far to show me that he was. So, I dont think having more  information about 
things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected  his decision to have PPI.
I dont think the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr N when he bought  the policy. But, from what  
Ive seen, Mr N hasnt  suggested that he couldnt afford the monthly premiums.  And he 
chose to take out the policy when he didnt have  to, so it seems Mr N wanted this type of 
cover at the time. Looked at overall, I think Mr N still wouldve decided  to buy the policy if 
hed been better informed. The policy gave  him worthwhile protection in his particular 
situation. So I dont  think better information wouldve stopped him buying it.
This means  AMEX doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
Ref: DRN46157003But AMEX  has offered (and it looks like it will by now have  already  paid back)  some of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr N because: 
AMEX got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr N about that. Because  AMEX didnt tell Mr N, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, AMEX offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.

So Im planning  to say that:
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr N any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, and if so I dont award any further compensation.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
I havent heard anything  further from Mr N in response to my provisional decision.
AMEX confirmed it has nothing further to add to what it has said already. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that have changed  my view, I still think  that what Ive said in my 
provisional decision is a fair and reasonable outcome, for the reasons I explained. 
Ref: DRN46157004my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr N any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, and if so, I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN4615700