K820x#14complaint
Miss C says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Miss C bought the policy in 2000  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  She applied 
for the credit card and PPI policy through the post.  
At the time,  Miss C was employed as a call centre operator. She told us she was not entitled 
to sick pay from her employer  just statutory sick pay - but wouldve received a redundancy 
payment. She said she had some savings  the amount she mentioned  was equivalent  to 
between one and two months  pay. And she said she was in good health  at the time of the 
sale.
The policy provided  life, accident, sickness, and unemployment cover, subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered a monthly benefit of 10% of Miss Cs credit  card balance 
in the event of a successful claim.  At the time,  it cost 89p per £100  of the monthly 
outstanding balance. The premiums wouldve continued to have to be paid during a 
successful claim  and they incurred interest. 
Capital One has sent us screenshots  to show that the credit card account was still live in 
2015, but the PPI was cancelled in 2003.
Miss Cs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.  
However, for ease  of reference, I will refer to its representations as being  Miss Cs from now 
on.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss C says:
Capital One failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss C wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss C believe  there  
to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Capital One should 
have told Miss C about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Capital One should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss C and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
Ref: DRN47071252The information Miss C received was misleading. These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the mis-sale complaint and both parties have  seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss C disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Cs. I dont intend to set that 
approach out in much detail here, but Ive taken this into account  in deciding  Miss Cs 
complaint.
This sale took place  in June 2000, just after the General Insurance  Standards Council 
(GISC) had published its code of practice  but before the code took effect  in July 2000. It was 
also before  the sale of general insurance  products  like this became regulated by the FSA in 
January 2005.  So, the GISC  Code,  the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching  Principles  for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was still live (although  not being used) in 2015. That means  the 
unfair relationship provisions set out at s140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act, the 
Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 about s140A of that Act and the rules and guidance 
made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission 
in the light of the Plevin judgment, also apply. I will come back to this later on.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014]  UKSC 61
Ref: DRN47071253The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Capital  One at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Cs case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Capital One was required to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Miss Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Capital One gave advice, whether it advised  Miss C with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Capital One gave Miss C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint about  the alleged  
mis-sale in favour of Miss C, I must then go on to consider whether and to what 
extent Miss C suffered  loss or damage  and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
-If I conclude Miss C has not suffered loss or damage and I propose no award for the 
alleged mis-sale, I must  then go on to consider whether, in all the circumstances (and 
Ref: DRN47071254taking into account  sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer  Credit Act, the 
Supreme Courts decision in Plevin , and the FCAs guidance at DISP  App 3), Capital  
One should have disclosed the commission it received - and if it didnt, what would 
be fair compensation in all the circumstances.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss C and 
Capital One, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs alleged mis-sale complaint. I have also 
considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission and Ive decided  that Capital One 
should have disclosed  the commission it received. My findings  are set out below. 
did Miss C know  she had a choice?
Capital One had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  It sent in a copy of Miss 
Cs credit  card application form, and I can see that there are equally prominent yes and no 
tick boxes on the form in relation to the PPI. Miss C ticked  the yes box to say that she 
wanted PPI  she couldve ticked the no box if she didnt want  the cover. So taking  
everything into account, I think its more likely that Miss C knew  the policy  was optional and 
she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Capital One provide  advice?
Both Capital  One and Miss C agree that advice  wasnt provided during  this sale. This means  
Capital One didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Miss C. Instead, it had to give 
her sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable Miss C to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Capital One provided us with Miss Cs application form showing that PPI had been  selected. 
It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says she wouldve received, including  
the policy terms and conditions and summary  of cover, which  I accept - on a balance of 
probabilities  applied to policies like Miss Cs. 
Looking at the documentation provided to Miss C at the time,  I dont  think  Capital One gave  
Miss C the information she fairly and reasonably needed to make  an informed decision 
about whether  or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. The application form didnt give Miss C any information about 
the PPI, but it referred her to a leaflet about  it. I think its unlikely Miss C would have agreed 
to take it out without at least having a broad  understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. And I think its unlikely Miss C would have 
thought it was free.
But it was Capital Ones responsibility to draw to Miss Cs attention the important information 
 i.e. the key information about  the nature of the cover and any significant exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded Capital One did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost 
of the policy  was made clear to Miss C, including the need  to maintain premiums during  a 
claim or that the premiums would incur  interest. In addition,  I cant see that Capital One 
Ref: DRN47071255adequately drew to her attention the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  
and exclusions.  
So I dont  think Capital  One gave Miss C sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing to her attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss C has raised  a number of general 
points with regard  to the requirements on a business  when providing information in PPI 
sales. she suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints, like hers. Ive considered these  
carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss C considers to be poor  value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss C about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Cs views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in insurance  law 
imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract to disclose material facts and not to make  
material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what a court would  say  I think  its 
unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose the claims ratio 
information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the way Miss C 
has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards of good 
industry practice applicable  to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude 
that Capital One ought  to have done either.  
what effect did Capital Ones shortcomings  have on Miss  C? To what extent did Miss  
C suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Capital  One didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Miss 
C. So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss C 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss C 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Capital One done things properly. 
Miss C says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Miss C had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Miss C chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable 
to conclude she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Miss C thought she was 
Ref: DRN47071256getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Miss C has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Miss C ought  reasonably to have known  she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  10% of her outstanding balance  this 
was set out on the policy summary. But, I accept that Capital  One didnt make clear  the on-
going cost information. So while Miss C didnt  know some  things,  the ultimate position in the 
event of a successful claim was not dissimilar  to what she would reasonably have thought  
from the information she based her decision to take out the policy  on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss C thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any medical condition  which  was existing or 
which Miss C knew about at the starting date, or of which  she was exhibiting the 
symptoms whether specifically diagnosed or not, or for which  she was receiving 
medical treatment or advice during  the 12 months preceding the starting date;
The policy excluded claims relating to some  mental health conditions,  and contained  
limitations on claims relating to back conditions, placing  more onerous evidential  
requirements to support  a claim on those grounds.
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss C 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that, in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Miss C be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do. 
The accident, sickness  and unemployment cover ended  when Miss C turned  65 (or 
earlier if shed retired).
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
given Miss C pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss C from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Cs circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. she was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss C didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems. In this case the 
policy excluded claims for certain mental  health conditions and the steps required to make a 
disability claim for back related conditions were more onerous than Miss C might reasonably 
have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a disability 
claim without  having  to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
exclusion and limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
Ref: DRN47071257circumstances to Miss C from taking out the policy, Miss C, in her circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out.
If Miss C had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any similar work, which, in the insurers view, she might  reasonably  be qualified for, it 
might have played into her thinking  about what she would have done. And I accept  it may 
have given her pause  for thought  although  its possible she may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Miss C was unable (through disability) to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Miss C has complained that she reached  65 while the policy was in place - and she wouldnt 
have been able to claim on it at that point. But Miss C was 52 when she took out the PPI, so 
I think its more likely than not shed have thought shed still get some value out of having the 
PPI, as it would  have covered her for a reasonable period of time before she turned 65. And 
in any case the PPI was cancelled  after three years.
 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Miss C would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting, and she didnt have any means of meeting her credit card 
repayments if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness (she said she wouldve 
received a redundancy payment but didnt say how much this wouldve been). And in those 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not that she would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Miss C says the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make it clear  that, 
where a significant  failing is identified,  it should be presumed the consumer wouldnt have 
taken out PPI, unless  there is evidence to outweigh the presumption.  They  say we should 
follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss C would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss C 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss C believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN47071258Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss C in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Capital One should  pay Miss C compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Miss C thinks Capital One misrepresented the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Capital Ones statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Capital  
One failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Capital One gave Miss C, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 2000 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Miss C says a court might  take if it were  to find Capital 
One negligently misrepresented the contract  to Miss C and about the remedy  a court  might 
award if it were to find that Capital One had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss C in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done.
So I dont  uphold the mis-sale element  of Miss Cs complaint.
However, having considered the overall mis-sale, I must now go on to consider whether the 
non-disclosure of commission  resulted  in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what compensation  it would be fair to award to Miss C to 
remedy that unfairness.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive considered the effect of section  140A  and B of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court decision  in Plevin v Paragon and the FCAs rules and guidance for businesses about 
handling PPI complaints  set out at DISP App 3 (as I referred to earlier)  in the light of that 
case.
Section 140A (1) and (2) of the Consumer Credit Act states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising  out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair  to the debtor  
because of one or more  of the following:
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
Ref: DRN47071259(b)the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf  of, the creditor (either before or 
after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement) .
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the creditor  and 
matters relating to the debtor).
Miss C has made a number of representations about the impact of the Plevin judgment and 
sections 140A and 140B  of the Consumer Credit Act on her complaint. In summary, Miss C 
said that:
-Capital One failed to tell her about the high commission and profit-share rates paid,  
the low claims  ratio (the proportion  of the premiums  paid by policyholders  used to 
pay claims), and the restrictions  and exclusions on cover; and
-If Capital One had told her about  those things, she would not have  taken out the 
policy, so she should get back all the money  she paid by way of premium for the 
policy.
Ive considered those  representations carefully.  In doing so, Im mindful  of the following:
-When selling insurance,  the relevant insurance  codes  did not specifically require 
Capital One to tell Miss C about  commission or about the claims ratio (nor, for 
reasons Ive already explained,  did the duty of utmost good faith require that). As the 
FCA said when introducing its rules and guidance to businesses  for the handling of 
PPI complaints in the light of the Plevin judgment, the failure to disclose commission 
was not in breach of the industry  codes and would not  in and of itself  have  been  a 
breach of FCAs Principles for Businesses. Those Principles  include a requirement 
on businesses to pay due regard to the interests  of its customers and treat them  
fairly(albeit as I set out earlier the Principles are not relevant in this case.)
-Where a court determines under section 140A that the relationship between the 
creditor and the debtor  arising out of a credit  agreement (or the agreement taken with 
any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of (among other things) 
anything done,  or not done, by or on behalf of the creditor,  the court  has a range of 
powers available to it under section 140B. Those powers include altering the terms of 
the credit  agreement or any related  agreement,  requiring the creditor  to repay  sums 
paid by the debtor, and to reduce  or discharge any sums  payable.
-The Supreme  Court considered whether the non-disclosure of high commission  
levels might  produce  an unfair  relationship in the case  of Plevin. In that case,  the 
Supreme Court  concluded that that the non-disclosure of commission  could lead to 
an unfair relationship.
-Following the Plevin judgment (and the uncertainty  that it created), the FCA issued 
rules and guidance to businesses for the handling of PPI complaints that included a 
complaint about undisclosed commission. That guidance (which is contained in DISP 
App 3) came into force  in August  2017 and was preceded by a policy  statement 
(PS17/03, issued  in March 2017) and two consultation papers (CP15/39  and 
CP16/20). The respondents to those consultations included consumer groups, 
Ref: DRN470712510businesses, claims management companies  and trade associations, and the final 
rules and guidance took account of their views.
-In PS 17/03, the FCA said that in publishing  this guidance for firms, it had used [its] 
regulatory judgement to create  a framework  that [it] believe[s]  will reduce uncertainty  
and enable firms to take a fair and consistent  approach to handling  PPI complaints. 
This will help ensure the best outcomes for consumers  at the earliest  stage in the 
complaints process [Page 6 para 1.8]
-In broad terms, the FCAs guidance and rules  for businesses  handling PPI 
complaints require businesses to consider complaints about PPI using  a two-step 
approach as set out in DISP App 3. Broadly speaking, at step 1, the firm should first 
consider whether the businesss conduct of the sale failed to comply with FCAs 
rules or legal requirements.  Where failings are identified,  the business  should 
determine the way the consumer would have acted if the breach  or failing had not 
occurred (i.e. whether  or not the consumer  would  have  bought the policy) and then 
determine appropriate redress - if any. It is at this step, for instance, where the 
presumption in DISP  App 3.6.2E  which I have  already addressed  above   may 
apply.
-Where the business concludes   as Capital One did in this complaint  that the 
consumer would  have  bought PPI, it must  then go on to assess, at step 2, whether 
any failure to disclose commission and profit share gave rise to an unfair relationship  
under section 140A, in which case the business  should go on to determine the 
appropriate remedy - if any.
-As a starting point,  the FCAs rules  and guidance require businesses to presume  that 
the failure to disclose  commission  gave rise to an unfair relationship where  the 
business expected commission and profit share to be more  than 50% of the cost of 
the policy (the FCA referred to this as the tipping point in its consultations  and 
policy statement). Usually, in those  circumstances, the FCAs rules and guidance 
require businesses to refund the amounts paid by the consumer  in commission  and 
profit share above 50% of the policys cost,  plus interest. While  this presumption of 
an unfair relationship  is rebuttable, I note that Capital One has not sought to rebut  it 
in Miss Cs case. In fact, Capital  One made an offer of payment to Miss C in 2018, 
calculated in line with the FCAs guidance.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Given that Capital  One didnt tell Miss C about the high levels  of commission and profit share  
paid in this case, I think  its likely a court would determine that the relationship  between  
Capital One and Miss C was unfair  under section 140A.  As Ive mentioned above, the FCAs 
rules require Capital  One to determine  appropriate  redress in those circumstances, and I 
have had regard  to those rules below in deciding what  compensation it would be fair to 
award Miss C in order to remedy  that unfairness. 
With respect to the claims ratio, I cant say with any degree of certainty  whether a court  
would conclude that Capital Ones failure to disclose information  about the claims ratio also 
meant there  was an unfair relationship. But in some respects, commission  and the claims 
ratio are two sides of the same coin  the fact that a relatively small amount of the premiums 
is required to pay claims is what permits the high commission and profit  share payments.  
Ref: DRN470712511And I accept   although I cant be sure  theres a possibility that a court might take a similar 
view about the claims  ratio when considering a claim  under section 140A. But since  Ive 
already found  that its likely a court would say that Capital One should have told Miss C 
about commission, and the claims ratio involves a similar concept, I dont think  the failure to 
disclose the claims ratio as a separate matter affects my overall conclusion about whats fair 
in this case.
So, taking into account:
-the likelihood (in my view) that a court  would  determine the relationship  between  
Capital One and Miss C was unfair  under section 140A  because  it didnt tell her 
about the high levels of commission and profit  share  paid in this case; and
-the regulators complaint handling  guidance  for businesses, 
I dont think Capital One acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss C insofar  as it 
failed to disclose  the high commission  and profit  share  paid out of the premiums  in this case. 
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.  
Ive thought carefully about whether fair compensation means Miss C should get a full refund  
of the premiums she paid to put her in the position  she would have been in if she hadnt 
taken the policy out, or a full refund of the commission  and profit share Capital One received, 
or a refund of the commission  paid above  a certain  point  for example by taking the 
approach set out in the FCAs rules  and guidance (as has already been offered by Capital 
One).
As Ive mentioned  above, Miss C says that she should get a full refund of all the PPI 
premiums she has paid.  In summary, Miss C says that the high level of commission (and/or 
the low claims  ratio)   together with the policys limitations and exclusions  meant  that the 
PPI policy  generally  represented poor value for money for her. I should therefore  find that 
Miss C would not have  purchased the policy had she known of the level of commission  
and accordingly,  she should receive  a refund of all the PPI premiums she paid.  
I have thought carefully about these representations  and am mindful  of Lord Sumptions  
observation in Plevin (at paragraph 18 of his judgment) where he said:
Any reasonable  person in [Mrs Plevins] position  who was told that more than two thirds  of 
the premium was going to intermediaries,  would  be bound to question whether the insurance 
represented value  for money, and whether it was a sensible  transaction to enter into. The 
fact that she was left in ignorance in my opinion made the relationship unfair.  
However, I note that the Supreme Court made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case (Mrs Susan Plevin) would (or would not) have purchased  the PPI 
policy had the commission  been disclosed to her at the time of her purchase. The Supreme 
Court simply did not address the question of causation. I do not therefore consider that the 
Plevin judgment necessarily drives  me to the conclusion that Miss C suggests  it does  i.e. 
that she necessarily would not have purchased the policy had the level of commission been 
disclosed to her at the time.
Ref: DRN470712512I have also borne in mind  that the overarching question for the court would be what  steps are 
required to remedy the unfairness, and that, under  section 140B, the court would have a 
wide range  of powers available to it in order to do so under the lending  relationship  in 
question. It does not, for instance,  follow that because Capital One did not disclose the high 
level of commission to Miss C, the court would necessarily order Capital One to return  all the 
premiums Miss C paid for the policy. Nor does it follow that the court  would necessarily find 
that Miss C would not have purchased the policy but for Capital Ones failure to disclose the 
high commission. 
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Miss 
C in order to remedy the unfairness  arising  from the fact Capital  One did not disclose the 
high level of commission to her before she purchased the policy.
the FCAs  guidance to firms following the Plevin  judgment
In considering what would represent  fair compensation for Miss C, I have, as I stated earlier,  
had regard to the FCAs guidance  to firms for handling PPI complaints involving a complaint  
about undisclosed commission. I think the FCAs guidance is an important consideration for 
me to take into account, and I will now explain  how I think  the FCAs guidance affects my 
decision on this issue.  
As I explained above, the FCA consulted extensively between 2015 and 2017 on the 
question of how firms should handle PPI complaints involving a complaint  about undisclosed 
commission in the light of the Plevin judgment. In the exercise  of its regulatory judgment,  the 
FCA established the two-step approach  I summarised above. According to the FCA, the 
purpose of this approach was to allow firms to take a fair and consistent approach to 
handling PPI complaints  involving undisclosed commission. 
The FCA explained why it decided to exercise its regulatory judgment  in the way it did in 
paragraphs 4.68  4.70 of PS17/3.  These paragraphs state as follows:
The two-step approach 
The approach to assessing merits  
4.68 Some responses  from industry, and from CMCs and consumer bodies, maintained their 
broad support for our proposed structuring  of the new rules  and guidance  concerning Plevin 
as a separate second step within our existing PPI complaint handling  rules and guidance, 
seeing it as a sensible and proportionate approach. 
4.69 However, some  industry respondents maintained and amplified their concerns about  
our view (at paragraph 5.69 of CP15/39)  that, in some marginal cases, a firm may conclude  
at Step 2 that not disclosing  commission over 50% was the straw that broke the back  of the 
sale as a whole, and that, overall, the customer would not have bought the PPI if given 
better information, including about the commission, at point of sale. These  responses argue 
that our view: 
inappropriately blurs the lines between two very different sets of circumstances
is confusing and contradictory from the consumers perspective
Ref: DRN470712513will result in uncertainty and disorderliness, as CMCs will use it to try to get any Step 
2 uphold  upgraded to a Step 1 uphold, increasing the length and complexity of 
handling for firms and delaying redress to consumers
imposes disproportionate  costs on firms  and the Financial Ombudsman Service  who 
will need  to operationalise such hybrid  assessments as standard  in their processes 
despite the small number, we say, whose outcomes will change  in practice 
4.70 Conversely, some  responses from consumer  bodies  and CMCs maintained  and 
amplified their previous  concerns that we are artificially and wrongly separating  the issues at 
Step 1 and Step 2, when these should be considered together. Specifically, they said that: 
We had mis-understood the relevant case law and disregarded relevant 
considerations from the Plevin judgment, and ignored the findings  of the Competition  
Commission that the non-disclosure of commission was a central  plank of the sales 
strategy employed by most lenders.
The question of unfairness under s.140A is not a narrow  test of commission.  Instead, 
it is a wide one in the round,  so any sales failings  at Step 1, or other issues of 
unfairness or inequalities of knowledge  such as poor value from a low claims ratio,  
should also be considered at Step 2, in particular by the Financial Ombudsman  
Service, which has to consider all the circumstances anyway, not just s.140A. 
Conversely, Plevin says failure to disclose commission is unfair  which  presumably 
also makes  it a breach of FCA principles 6 and 7  and that the customer did need to 
be told about poor value, and it explicitly cites unfairness arising from undisclosed 
poor value. So it is wrong  for our proposed structure to imply (and Financial 
Ombudsman Service decisions to assert) that the non-disclosure of high commission  
and poor value was not relevant for causation and potential mis-selling or 
assessment at Step 1. Our proposed approach  paid lip service  to this, allowing that 
undisclosed commission may be the straw that broke the back of the sale as a 
whole, but said these  are marginal cases that will be few and far between   
whereas in reality,  they are the norm.
As proposed, Step 2 assumes Step 1 has been fairly carried out, but we cannot 
reasonably assume  that, given  the continued  poor complaint handling by firms. And 
the approach itself incentivises lenders not to concede a mis-sale,  and to instead 
redress more cheaply at Step 2. 
Our response
We have carefully  considered this feedback. However,  we see no reason to change our 
previous views or position.
Plevin deals with the specific question of whether an unfair relationship between lender and 
borrower was created by undisclosed high commission on the PPI. This question  is different 
from, and narrower than, the principal question behind our existing rules and guidance for 
firms, which  is: did the conduct of the firm that sold the PPI fall so short, at point of sale,  of 
what we would expect  under our Principles and ICOB(S) rules,  that it made the sale 
substantially flawed?  
Ref: DRN470712514We still believe the two-step approach reflects this difference appropriately and fairly for 
complainants and firms.  An alternative approach which  merged considerations about  
undisclosed commission  into the existing rules  and guidance about  mis-selling to create a 
single test would not be appropriate because:  
We do not consider the non-disclosure of commission in PPI sales to have been a 
breach of our ICOB(S) rules,  and it is unlikely  in and of itself to have been  in breach 
of our Principles,  whereas we do consider the various  sales failings set out in the 
existing rules and guidance to be so.
It would  lead us, and firms, into difficult considerations  of whether a consumer would 
still have bought  the PPI if they had been  told about the level of commission. This 
difficulty is compounded by the fact that complaints about PPI increasingly involve 
older, pre-2005  sales,  of which some will be eligible to be considered at Step 2.
Additionally, if we were to force  firms  to make these assessments  it would result in 
complaint outcomes  which would  be both arbitrary  and inappropriately all or nothing. 
It could give too little  nothing  to many  consumers  who had suffered an unfair 
relationship, and too much  full return of premium and interest  to many consumers 
who had benefitted from the PPI cover. (See paragraphs 4.87-4.105 below for further 
discussion of our approach to redress.) 
We would, anyway, have to leave scope for a PPI complaint where undisclosed  
commission may be relevant to be assessed  by a lender  that did not sell the PPI and 
could not assess  if it was mis-sold under  our existing rules..
This extract makes it clear that the FCA specifically considered  representations  from 
consumer bodies  and claims management companies which are very similar to the 
representations which Miss C is now making   i.e. that the existence of an undisclosed high 
level of commission means that I should find that Miss C would not have purchased  the 
policy had she known  about the level of commission at the time she bought the policy.
However, I note that, in the exercise of its regulatory judgment,  the FCA decided that it 
would not be appropriate to merge considerations about undisclosed commission into the 
existing rules and guidance about mis-selling. This is why it created the two-step approach  
for firms handling PPI complaints summarised above. And as part of that two-step  approach, 
the FCA said that impact  of the undisclosed commission  and the compensation required to 
remedy the unfairness caused by that undisclosed  commission  should generally be 
considered at step 2. 
Turning now to consider  what  the FCAs guidance says about  how firms should calculate fair 
compensation to remedy the unfairness caused by undisclosed commission at step 2, I am 
mindful that the FCAs guidance on this issue was also the product of extensive  consultation  
and deliberation. The following extract from para 4.104 of PS17/3  (omitting the footnotes)  
explains the FCAs position:
Concerning the core logic of our proposed approach to redress, we note [] the 
courts might take a variety  of approaches to redress on individual  cases. However, 
we remain of the view that our approach,  centred  on the return of that portion of 
undisclosed commission plus profit share that exceeded  the tipping point, is fair and 
appropriate. As we have  explained  (see our response under paragraph  3.27 above), 
we are exercising  our regulatory  judgement  about appropriate assessment and, 
Ref: DRN470712515where appropriate, redress of relevant PPI complaints in light of s.140A-B, taking 
account of Plevin. In doing so, we are seeking  to ensure fair and consistent complaint 
handling. We consider our approach to redress to be a reasonable starting 
presumption, which fits well with the central importance Lord Sumption gave to the 
notion of a tipping point.  
For these reasons, although  it was the remedy in Plevin ordered by the Manchester  
County Court, we do not agree that our general  approach to redress should be the 
return of all the commission that was not disclosed. Also,  the consumer,  who,  as 
would generally  have been established at Step 1, was not mis-sold, had a need for 
the protection offered  by the policy and enjoyed the benefit  of that protection  before 
complaining. So it is fair and reasonable for the lender to keep some of the 
commission from the policys distribution (i.e. the portion under the tipping point).
 
Nor do we agree that our approach to redress should  be the return  of all the 
premium(s) paid by the consumer. Adopting  this approach would dissolve any 
meaningful distinction between  a mis-sale and an unfair relationship  under  s.140A, 
and thus between our existing Step 1 and proposed  Step 2. In our view, it would 
(even more than the return  of all commission) give excessive redress to the 
consumer who had enjoyed the benefit of that protection  before complaining. We 
consider it is fair and reasonable for the consumer to have still paid for the 
underwriting of the policy  and for some of the commission  from the policys  
distribution (i.e. the portion  under  the tipping  point).
 
We do not agree that our approach to redress at Step 2 inconsistently evokes 
hypothetical scenarios  or, in general  or for historic interest specifically,  implies  any 
assumption that the customer would have  searched for or bought  an alternative  PPI 
policy that was cheaper by the amount of the excess  commission over the tipping 
point. So we do not need to take into account whether such  alternative cheaper PPI 
policies existed or were  available to the consumer.  
Rather, as stated above, our approach simply seeks to redress  the customer  for that 
element of undisclosed  excess commission  and profit share which created the unfair 
relationship under s.140A. It is in that specific sense, of our approach  not second 
guessing what  the consumer would have done had they been told of the commission,  
that we meant that our approach was different from the but for logic at Step 1. We 
did not mean that our overall approach to redress had no element of restoring the 
consumers financial position to what  it would  have been without the undisclosed 
excess commission.
 
Lastly, we note that our approach  to redress has to be viewed in the round, as a 
package. Responses from CMCs  and consumer bodies have focused on aspects 
which they believe depart  from Plevin and are ungenerous to complainants,  such  as 
the presumptive  50% tipping point and redress based on the excess over it. 
Responses from industry have focused on aspects which they believe depart from . 
So we consider that, overall, our approach is balanced and will give redress,  in 
aggregate and to individuals, that is fair and proportionate in light of the detriment 
identified and described by the Supreme Courts judgment.  ..
In essence, therefore,  the FCAs guidance  to firms for calculating fair compensation in a 
case like Miss Cs (involving a regular premium policy) is that a firm should pay a sum 
equivalent to the commission and profit share that is in excess of 50% of the policys cost, 
Ref: DRN470712516together with interest. According to the FCA, compensation calculated in this way would 
fairly remove the element of unfairness caused  by the existence  of the undisclosed high 
commission. 
my conclusion
Taking all these considerations  into account,  and having carefully  considered Miss Cs 
representations, my conclusion is as follows:
-Where a court determines that the relationship between a creditor and debtor is 
unfair under section  140A,  the court is empowered  to make a variety of different 
types of orders under  section 140B in order remedy that unfairness.
-Miss C has urged  me to conclude that because Capital Ones  failure to disclose the 
high level of commission (and/or profit  share) made her relationship with Capital One 
unfair, I must  find that she wouldnt have purchased the policy  had she known about 
these matters at the time she purchased the policy.
-However, I do not accept Miss Cs suggestion.  As I said above, I recognise  it is 
possible that had the level of commission been disclosed to Miss C at the time of the 
sale, she might have  decided not to purchase the policy. At the same time,  however, 
I am mindful of:
i. the FCAs observation in PS17/03  (which  I have  quoted  above) that the 
existence of undisclosed  commission question raises difficult considerations 
of whether a consumer  would  still have bought the PPI if they had been told 
about the level of commission; and
ii. the fact that there are a variety of other ways to fairly  remedy  the unfairness 
caused to Miss C by the failure  to disclose the high level of commission   I 
am not, as Miss C suggests,  driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Capital  Ones failure to disclose the level of 
commission.
-I am also mindful that the FCAs guidance  to firms for handling complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission  requires a firm to refund some of the money paid for 
the PPI policy  in order to remedy the unfairness  caused by the failure  to disclose the 
level of commission. I also think that refunding  some of the money paid for the PPI 
policy in this way is an order which the court could,  in the exercise of its discretion, 
make under  section  140B in order  to remedy any unfairness.
 
-Overall, and on balance, I therefore  think it was fair for Capital One to calculate 
compensation in line with the FCAs guidance for handling complaints about the non-
disclosure of commission and profit share,  and thus return  some of the money Miss 
C paid for her PPI policy. This is because, in my view, this:
i. fairly removed the source of the unfairness; while:
ii. leaving  Miss C with the policy Ive concluded  above she would have taken out 
if Capital One had met its obligations  when acting as an insurance seller   but 
with lower commission and profit share  levels.
   
Ref: DRN470712517-In other  words, by compensating  Miss C in line with the FCAs guidance  at step 2, 
this effectively reduced the overall cost of the policy by an amount equal to the 
excess undisclosed high commission  (and/or profit share) which  is the very source of 
the unfairness for the purposes of section 140A.
  
-I think that compensating Miss C in this way was a fair and reasonable outcome 
because it left her with the policy I believe  she would have still taken out (for the 
reasons I explained above) while fairly compensating  her for the unfairness caused 
by the existence of undisclosed high commission. 
Taking all of this into account,  I therefore  consider that Capital Ones offer of payment of an 
amount equivalent  to the commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy  
costs, in line with the FCAs  guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.  
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Miss Cs complaint  or make any award  in 
her favour for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that Capital 
One (Europe)  plc should pay Miss C an amount equivalent to the commission  and profit  
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost, if it hasnt already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 August 2021.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4707125