K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about problems he has had using his Clydesdale Bank Plc banking  
application. He also complains that the application doesnt allow him to enter full amounts.
background
Mr P says he keeps getting locked  out of the application when using his mobile  phone. He 
says hes called Clydesdale on a number of occasions about the problem. Mr P also 
complains that the application doesnt  allow him to enter the full value of money  as it doesnt 
allow him to enter pence. He says he was promised calls back  from Clydesdale  but he didnt 
receive them.
Clydesdale says Mr P entered the wrong  details and that is why the application was locked. 
It also says Mr P failed its security questions and it offered to help Mr P reset the application  
by re-registering it. Clydesdale says full amounts can be used on its application and it 
advised Mr P that he needed to change the settings on his mobile phone. It accepts Mr P 
didnt receive the call back as promised and has offered him £25 compensation.
Mr P brought his complaint to us but our investigator  thought  Clydesdale had dealt fairly with 
it and had offered  a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. He thought Mr P had 
entered incorrect details  on a number of occasions  and so Clydesdale hadnt made a 
mistake. He also thought it had tried to help Mr P with that problem and with the problem 
about entering full amounts including pence.
Mr P is unhappy with that view and believes  the compensation should  be higher.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for largely  the same reasons.  I realise Mr P will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked through Clydesdales records and I can see that Mr P was locked out of the 
application as a result of what  I think was him entering incorrect details.  In those 
circumstances Im satisfied that Clydesdale didnt  make a mistake  and is entitled to take 
security measures that it thinks appropriate. Ive also listened to the calls between the 
parties and Im satisfied  Clydesdale  fairly  offered to reset Mr Ps details but he didnt wish to 
do so. So I think Clydesdale has tried to help Mr P. And whilst I accept he called it on a 
number of occasions, I think the problem  was caused by Mr P and by him failing 
Clydesdales security.
I also think it unlikely that the application wouldnt allow a full amount including  pence to be 
entered. I think on balance the problem was more likely  to have been with Mr Ps phone. Im 
satisfied Clydesdale  explained that and fairly  offered to help Mr P change his phone settings.
There is no question here that Mr P didnt receive  a promised  call back  from Clydesdale.  I 
have no doubt  that caused  him frustration  and inconvenience. But Im satisfied Clydesdale 
has apologised and offered what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation of 
£25. I think that offer fairly  reflects the level of its mistake and the inconvenience caused  to 
Mr P. I can see that offer remains open to Mr P but I appreciate  in the circumstances why he 
may not wish to accept  it.
Ref: DRN44832312Overall I dont think Clydesdale was at fault or made a mistake by blocking the application. 
And Im satisfied its made  a fair and reasonable offer of compensation for the phone  call 
problem.
my final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable offer of 
compensation. Mr Ps acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4483231