K821x#15complaint
Mr E on behalf of Mrs E has complained  about the way a claim under her home insurance 
policy for an escape of water was handled  by Ageas  Insurance  Limited.
background
Mrs E made a claim to Ageas for an escape of water in 2013.  Ageas accepted  the claim and 
instructed its contractor to carry out repairs. As part of the repairs it installed a washing 
machine.
In 2015 Mrs E contacted Ageas to say that damp  had reappeared and she thought  that was 
linked to the works carried out by Ageas. Ageas sent a contractor to inspect the damage. It 
said there was either a pre-existing  damp  issue or a leak. It said the claim wasn't covered by 
her policy.  Mrs E had her property  damp proofed in 2015 but that didn't stop the damp.
In 2016 Mrs E contacted Ageas again  because she'd found a leak behind her washing 
machine. Ageas accepted  that it had probably  been leaking due to a poorly  fitted connection 
when it was installed in 2013 and so it was responsible for repairs.
When the property  was being dried  by Ageas, Mrs E told it three times that the dryers 
weren't working  properly. Ageas apologised for the delay this caused.
Ageas appointed its contractor to strip the property out. Ageas accepted that the contractor 
took little care when  carrying out this work. In August 2016 it replaced the contractor.
Mrs E says the works  were eventually finished in early 2018.
Ageas paid Mrs E £4,000 compensation. It told our investigator £2,500 was for distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs E and £1,500  was for her expenses. As Mrs E didn't think  this 
was enough, she complained to this service. She wanted Ageas to pay the further expenses 
set out below:
£
satellite tv subscription cost   1649
satellite tv refit     110
tv and phone socket refit       70
plants and garden reinstatement     400
household plants     100
replacement toilet seat       30
bedding     100
gym membership     240
contribution towards  bed for the spare  room      150
train fares     150
Total £2,899
She also thought  Ageas  should cover certain further costs. These were:
increased gas and electricity bills
increase in home insurance due to property being unoccupied
damp proofing in kitchen  before leak was discovered £300
emergency plumber  for toilet £75
Ref: DRN46762652Ageas said the £1,500 already paid was in respect  of satellite tv costs (other  than the 
subscription fee), garden plants, house plants, travel and other unsubstantiated costs. It 
thought £1,500 was generous  for this. It said it would consider paying  for the bedding, 
increased utility costs, any increase in insurance premium  charged by Mrs E's new insurer 
due to the property being  empty,  unnecessary  damp proof work and the emergency plumber 
if Mrs E could  supply evidence regarding these. It didn't  think  it should have to pay towards a 
replacement bed in the spare room because this hadn't been mentioned before and the old 
bed had now been disposed of. It also didn't think it should pay for costs  which  Mrs E would 
have incurred anyway  such as the satellite  tv subscription and gym membership.
Mr E thought  Ageas should also pay for the following:
£420 for a new washer dryer that he said Mrs E had been promised would be reimbursed 
by Ageas
lost earnings on his part while hed been  helping Mrs E with the claim
£480 for unnecessary damp  proof  work.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I was minded to uphold  the 
complaint in part. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
It's clear that Ageas  is responsible for causing Mrs E significant avoidable trouble and upset 
by not installing the washing machine correctly in 2013, not diagnosing the cause of the leak 
promptly, the poor workmanship of its contractors  and delays. She's had the inconvenience 
of moving out of her home for about  17 months and the stress  caused by damage  to her 
home caused by Ageas' contractors. There's good  evidence that this has had an impact on 
Mrs E's health. But in my view, the compensation of £2,500 paid by Ageas is reasonable in 
the circumstances to compensate Mrs E for this and in line with what I'd probably have 
awarded.
I've looked  at the financial losses Mrs E is claiming for. Before I require Ageas to pay these, I 
must be satisfied that the losses were incurred as a direct result of the claim or failings on 
the part of Ageas and/or its suppliers. I don't think Mrs E's satellite television subscription  
and gym membership fall into this category  because  these were expenses she'd have had 
anyway regardless of the claim. I've also taken  into account the disruption she suffered  
which meant she didn't  have the benefit  of these when I looked at compensation for trouble 
and upset.
There's no dispute about the tv wiring, garden reinstatement and plants.  In relation to the tv 
and phone socket, replacement toilet seat and bedding, Ageas thinks Mrs E should provide 
invoices for these. But I don't think the amounts claimed for these items are excessive. In the 
circumstances I think putting  Mrs E to the trouble of proof would be unfair and unnecessary. 
To avoid  further  inconvenience to Mrs E I think Ageas should pay these.
Ageas accepts that its contractor left the bedrooms unsealed and that caused  damage to the 
contents. I agree that it should  have  had the opportunity  to inspect the damage  to the 
original bed but in the circumstances think a contribution of £150  is reasonable which  brings 
the total so far to £960.
Ref: DRN46762653That leaves £540 out of the original settlement (of £1,500) for unsubstantiated travel costs.  
Mr E says Mrs E made about 30 journeys at £11 from her temporary accommodation and a 
return journey to his home at the other  end of the UK while she couldnt stay in her own 
home. I think  its reasonable to allocate the majority of the remaining £540 to these journeys. 
Mr E should  provide evidence to Ageas of any additional journeys he wishes  it to consider.
Ageas has already paid Mrs E for electricity used when drying  the property. Mr E says its 
too difficult to show  that Mrs E is out of pocket  for her utility  costs as a result of the claim. So 
I cant reasonably require Ageas to pay any more in respect of this.
Its also not clear whether  and if so, by how much  Mrs E is being charged more  by her new 
insurer because of the property being empty  for so long. I think Ageas has treated Mrs E 
reasonably by saying it will consider  any evidence  shes able to provide  regarding this.
Mrs E has now been able to find an invoice for half of the initial damp  proof treatment. I am 
minded to require  Ageas  to pay Mrs E £150  for this unnecessary work she had done to her 
kitchen following the initial failure to find the leak and to consider any further evidence Mrs E 
may be able to provide of the remaining cost.
I dont think it was unreasonable  of Ageas to ask Mrs E to provide an invoice from her 
emergency plumber  or other evidence of work carried  out by them.
According to Ageas Mrs E asked its contractor to provide a new washer  dryer  as part of a 
private arrangement  between her and them (during the course of the repair  works). Im not 
persuaded that Ageas ever agreed  that Mrs E wouldnt have to pay for this or that theres 
any reason it should do so.
I can see that Mr E has provided  a large  amount of support to Mrs E during the course of this 
claim and this has taken a lot of his time.  Unfortunately for them, however, home  insurance  
policies dont cover  loss of earnings by someone  who isnt the policyholder. Although Mrs E 
no doubt greatly appreciated his help,  I cant say that it was essential for him to be present 
when he was and so it wouldnt be right for Ageas to be required to pay his loss of earnings.
Mr E had shown that Mrs E felt she had no option  but to pay for further damp treatment 
costing £480 because Ageas suggested  that this work had to be done  before it would carry 
out further repairs. The work turned  out to be unnecessary. I think  in order  to treat Mrs E 
fairly Ageas should pay for this.
responses to my provisional  decision
Ageas accepted that it should  pay £150  towards the damp work in the kitchen. But it didnt 
think it was liable to pay a further £480 for damp-proofing works.
In summary  Mr Es response was as follows:
He forwarded receipts for train journeys totalling  £574.90 which he thought Ageas should 
pay.
He said Ageas loss adjuster had agreed in conversation to reimburse him for lost 
earnings and train fare for him to remove  and reinstall furniture in three bedrooms. In 
addition to his train fare hed lost wages  of £1,357  but Ageas had only paid him £500.
He also provided evidence of the revised insurance premium.
Ref: DRN46762654Mrs E would  have cancelled her gym and satellite  tv subscription if shed known shed be 
away from home for so long. 
There were ongoing issues of cracking  in the walls and ceilings of Mrs Es property.
We forwarded Mr Es evidence to Ageas. It commented as follows:
It examined the individual train receipts for long cross-country journeys and found that 
with one exception  they were all for journeys when according to its records  Mrs E was 
either staying in temporary accommodation in her local area or at home. It didnt think it 
was liable  to pay Mr Es travel costs.
It agreed to pay Mr E £500 to help move  furniture. It didnt say it would pay him for lost 
wages.
Mr E has shown what  the revised  premium was but its not clear how much of the 
increase was due to the property being unoccupied.
It said the cracking  was due to normal thermal movement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas told Mrs E if she didnt have  the damp proofing injections to the internal  wall it would 
refer back to its contractor to see whether they would still carry out the works but without the 
standard guarantee theyd  normally issue for works. I can understand why Mrs E felt 
pressured into getting this work done  she naturally  wanted her property to be repaired 
without any more delay  after the damage had been  going on for so many years. 
Her damp-proof specialist  found  evidence of damp in some  walls. He said this might  be due 
to excess groundwater.  It seems likely that this was connected to the leak from the washing 
machine. He didnt  say that there was any problem with the existing damp proof  course. Im 
not persuaded that there was a pre-existing issue highlighted by the claim that required 
attention. So I remain of the view that to treat Mrs E fairly Ageas should reimburse her for 
the cost of this work.
Mrs E did make one long train journey to stay with her son while  the repairs  were being 
carried out. After deducting  the cost of 11 shorter journeys I dont think Mrs Es travel costs  
exceed the £540 left in the original settlement for unsubstantiated travel costs. I also dont 
think Ageas  has acted unreasonably in refusing to pay Mr Es travel  costs since  it wasnt 
necessary for him to be at the property.
Im not convinced Ageas agreed  to pay Mr Es lost wages for removing and reinstalling 
bedroom furniture.  I think it unlikely that it would  have agreed to pay him substantially  more 
than it would have  cost it to appoint another  contractor to do the same work and £500 
sounds to me a reasonable sum for this job.
Mr E has provided evidence of the premium paid but unfortunately its still not clear how 
much of the increase in premium  is due to the property being unoccupied  as opposed to 
other factors such as the claim. If he can obtain  any further information from Mrs Es insurer  
regarding this, I think Ageas should  consider it.
Ive explained  in my provisional findings why I didnt think Ageas was liable to pay Mrs Es 
gym and satellite tv subscription costs while she wasnt living at home.
Ref: DRN46762655I appreciate that hairline  cracks often  appear  in new plastering work but Mrs Es cracking 
appears more unsightly  than this. Ageas contractor has a vested interest in saying that there  
was no poor workmanship  on its part. Ageas  has offered  to refer Mr Es photos to its loss 
adjuster for comment. I think thats a reasonable next step. If Mrs E still isnt happy with the 
outcome of that, shes free to bring  a further  complaint  but I hope that wont be necessary.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
reimburse Mrs E £630 for the various damp proof works (costing £150 and £480) plus 
simple interest*  at a rate of 8% from the date of payment;
consider any evidence Mrs E is able to provide regarding the increase in her insurance 
premium due to the property being empty; and
instruct  its loss adjuster to consider whether the cracking in Mrs Es re-plastered walls is 
due to poor workmanship on the part of its contractor. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E on behalf  of 
Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*If Ageas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs E how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs E a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN4676265