K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains that a car he financed through an agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS)  was not of satisfactory quality. He also disputes the end of 
contract charges  that MBFS have made.
background 
I issued my provisional decision in June 2019.  I explained why I was planning to uphold  
Mr Ps complaint. An extract of that provisional  decision  is set out below:
Mr P took receipt of a new car in April 2016.  He financed the deal through  a one year hire 
purchase agreement  with MBFS. 
In September  2016 Mr P says the brakes  failed whilst his wife was driving the car and she 
had a minor  crash which resulted in some denting to the doors.
Three days later he says the brakes  failed again when he was on the motorway travelling at 
some speed.  He returned the car to the dealership  and was provided with a courtesy car 
whilst they replaced  a brake booster  servo. The car was returned to Mr P about  five days 
later.
In February 2017  Mr P was disappointed to detect a gearbox oil leak on the car which  he 
says caused damage  to his driveway.  The leak was fixed but Mr P says in early March 2017  
it was back again  and he had to leave  the car on the street  instead  of his driveway.
He provided a quote to clean the damaged  driveway  for £350 and he wanted  MBFS to pay 
for the clean  up as he said the broker had promised him they would. 
Mr P says he stopped  driving the car in March  and it was collected in April at the end of the 
contract period.  The end of contract  inspection  highlighted  damage that MBFS said Mr P had 
a contractual obligation to pay for as he needed  to return the car in a satisfactory condition. 
The damage and costs were listed as follows:
left hand front door dent £310
left hand rear door dent £260
right hand  rear door dent £310
quarter panel  chip £210
Mr P says the dents  were  caused  when his wife crashed the car and as this was due to a 
fault with the vehicles  brakes, he shouldnt be held liable for the charges. He said it was also 
possible that the car was damaged when it was parked on the road and again, he says he 
shouldnt be held liable for that as it wouldve been  on the drive if it wasnt leaking oil.
Mr Ps finance agreement was due to finish at the end of April 2017 but he says the broker  
convinced him to sign up for a new deal to start in March 2017;  telling him the April 
agreement would be terminated early. But that wasnt the case and Mr P says that he was 
therefore left to pay for two agreements at the same time. Hed like the final monthly 
instalment for his April agreement refunded,  as he says the broker was acting on MBFSs 
behalf. 
Ref: DRN47667342Mr P also noted that the hire company, who provided a courtesy  car when his was being 
repaired, had charged him for valeting and he wants MBFS to refund this charge to him.
In response, MBFS noted that the broker appeared to have promised Mr P that the two 
finance agreements  wouldnt  run in tandem. But they said the broker wasnt  their agent  and 
couldnt speak  for them.  So they didnt think it was fair to hold them responsible for any 
overlap. They couldnt see that the broker had told Mr P that theyd pay to clean his driveway 
but they said that, even if the broker had, it would be unfair to expect them to refund the 
costs as the broker wasnt their representative  in this matter.  
They said Mr P hadnt  reported the re-occurrence of the oil leak to them, and the first oil leak 
was completely unrelated to the brake  failure  theyd repaired. They  said the seal failure that 
had caused the leak was an example of normal  wear and tear. 
They said Mr P hadnt  reported the minor  accident  to them  or the dealership and had ample  
time to make  a claim to MBFS if he thought the damage was a result  of a mechanical  fault 
as the issue had happened in September 2016. They  explained that in a text message with 
the broker Mr P had said there was a dent in the car that he should  fix and they thought this 
was evidence Mr P was willing to complete the repair himself.  
But they did agree  to refund the charge for the courtesy car valet  as they accepted  this 
would usually be absorbed by the retailer. They said theyd add 8% simple interest to this 
refund from the time of payment to the date of settlement.
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator reviewed the evidence.  She 
thought MBFS should  have allowed Mr P to reject his car after hed experienced a further  
failure with it (the oil leak). And she thought the subsequent issues  could have been avoided  
if thatd happened.
She thought  it fair to suggest MBFS were responsible for the actions of the broker  who she 
said was their agent in this transaction. She reviewed the text messages exchanged  
between Mr P and the broker  and was persuaded that thered been  agreement to pay for the 
damaged driveway  and terminate one agreement before  the other started. So she thought 
MBFS should honour this and refund  the clean-up cost of £350  and the overlapping final 
finance instalment  of £299. She also thought  MBFS should waive the end of contract  
charges theyd asked  Mr P to pay and that they should pay him £400 to compensate him for 
the distress and inconvenience  hed experienced.
But MBFS disagreed.  They  stressed  that the broker wasnt a representative of MBFS and 
that they couldnt be held responsible for his promises or any miscommunication, and they 
therefore asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the adjudicators view of this complaint and Im only expecting  to 
uphold it in part. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN47667343Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
section 56 of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974)
I can see that this section of the Consumer Credit Act has been relied on to suggest MBFS 
are responsible for the actions  of the broker.
Section 56 says that the finance  company  (MBFS) are responsible  for what is said by a 
credit broker  or supplier before the consumer takes  out an agreement.
But it doesnt apply  to anything said after the credit  agreement is formed, so here I dont 
think it would  be fair to hold MBFS responsible for the brokers  promises or any post 
agreement miscommunication.
Any complaint Mr P has about the brokers conduct  should, in the first instance, be directed 
to the broker. But if Mr P remains dissatisfied with the broker he can then refer his complaint 
to this service.
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
Mr P acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MBFS are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put things right.  
The car first failed five months after receipt and under the relevant  law, MBFS were entitled 
to attempt to repair the car  which they did. The brakes  didnt fail again, so I think its 
reasonable to suggest the repair was satisfactory.
But the car suffered a further  problem in February  2017 when there  was a gearbox oil leak.  
Relevant legislation does not give a business  one chance to repair each  separate fault that 
may occur. Whether a vehicle is of satisfactory quality when supplied refers to the vehicle as 
a whole, not each separate component. Indeed the greater number of  separate  faults - the 
more likely it is the vehicle  isnt of satisfactory  quality.
MBFS have suggested  that this subsequent  fault was normal  wear and tear but I dont think  
a reasonable person would expect  to experience a leaking  gearbox on a brand new car after 
only ten months; so I dont accept their argument.  MBFS  had their opportunity  to repair  the 
vehicle, so in February  2017 I think it would have been fair for them  to allow Mr P to reject 
his car and terminate  his finance agreement.
But they didnt  and as a result Mr P had to pay finance instalments in March  and April 2017 
for a finance  agreement  he should have been allowed to withdraw  from. Although Im 
conscious he did have  use of the vehicle  during  this period, it seems  his mileage during April 
was limited, or nil, as hed secured his new car by then and didnt want  to drive the old one 
because of a reoccurrence of the leaking gearbox. So I think its fair for MBFS to refund the 
April instalment and I think they should  also refund half of the instalment Mr P paid in March 
as I think, whilst he had use of the car, his enjoyment would have been impaired by the 
persistent oil leak.
Ref: DRN47667344Ive seen pictures of the oil-stained  driveway and Im persuaded this was most  likely to have 
been a result of the leak that developed on Mr Ps car. I say that because its consistent  with 
the text messages he was exchanging with the broker at the time, in which  the driveway  
damage was referred to. I think its very likely that a gearbox leak would result  in some 
staining to the area that the car was parked in, so I think it would be fair for MBFS to refund 
the £350 cost Mr P has provided an invoice for, as the damage wouldnt have happened if 
the car was of satisfactory  quality.
Theres no dispute that the courtesy  vehicle charge of £60 should be refunded by MBFS, so 
I would expect them to honour this payment.
end of contract charges
Mr Ps finance agreement explained  that the car would need to be returned in a good 
condition. The industry guidelines are provided by the British  Vehicle Rental and Leasing  
Association (BVRLA), and having reviewed the damage in the inspection report I agree that 
the dents and chips identified are beyond  acceptable wear and tear and are chargeable 
under the terms  of Mr Ps contract  with MBFS. 
Mr P doesnt  dispute the dented doors  and the chipped quarter panel.  But he says the dents 
were incurred during  a minor accident and damage could also have been incurred when the 
car was, unnecessarily,  parked  on the road.
Ive not been provided with any evidence of a crash or a brake  failure before 23 September.  
Mr P suggests his wife crashed on 20 September but Im not persuaded the damage  was 
most likely to have occurred then because:
Mr P has explained his wife paid a cash settlement to the other driver  to cover 
damage to that vehicle. I dont think shed have done that if the accident was a result 
of brake  failure.  I think its more likely  she wouldve disputed  liability  and talked to 
MBFS  but she didnt
the text records Mr P provided  included a text where he explained there was a dent 
to the car that he was going to fix. I think its likely Mr P understood this was 
something he could  be charged  for and that he understood it was his responsibility  to 
fix. Im supported in that view as I see Mr P has had previous  lease agreements and I 
think its therefore reasonable to suggest  hed have known about potential  end of 
contract refurbishment liability and charges.
I think its unlikely Mr P would have driven  the car again if he knew the brakes  were  
suspect. But its clear  he did a few days after he says his wife crashed. I think  its 
more likely that it was during  this subsequent journey that the brakes first failed.
Im not convinced the pattern of damage, to both sides of the car, is consistent with a 
crash as described.
Regardless of whether  the car was on the road or on a driveway, it was Mr Ps responsibility 
to ensure it was returned in the requisite  condition.  I can understand that he wouldnt want to 
park it on a driveway if it had an oil leak, but I think its fair to say it was his responsibility to 
ensure it was parked in an area where it was unlikely to be damaged. I think its therefore fair 
for MBFS  to hold him accountable  for any damage  thats occurred outside  of normal  wear  
and tear.
Ref: DRN47667345So I think the end of contract  charges  have  been applied fairly  and I dont intend  to ask 
MBFS to waive them.
compensation
Our adjudicator considered that MBFS had been  wrong to make  end of contract charges but 
I dont agree. So whilst I think that Mr P should be compensated for the distress  and 
inconvenience hes experienced, I think £400  is excessive in these revised  circumstances 
and instead I intend to ask MBFS to pay him £200  to reflect  the problems hes experienced 
as a result  of the quality issues hes had with his car.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited to:
refund  the finance instalment for April 2017 and half of the March  2016 instalment 
and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
pay Mr P £350 to fund the quoted driveway clean-up
refund  £60 courtesy car charge and add 8% simple interest from the point of 
payment to the date of settlement
pay £200 to compensate  Mr P for the distress and inconvenience caused by their 
actions
remove any adverse credit records that have been made to Mr Ps credit file in 
relation to any item in this redress.
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision and I believe MBFS have already arranged to 
make payment. So Ive seen no reason  to change my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN47667346my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Mercedes-Benz  Financial 
Services UK Limited to:
refund  the finance instalment for April 2017 and half of the March  2016 instalment 
and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
pay Mr P £350 to fund the quoted driveway clean-up
refund  £60 courtesy car charge and add 8% simple interest from the point of 
payment to the date of settlement
pay £200 to compensate  Mr P for the distress and inconvenience caused by their 
actions
remove any adverse credit records that have been made to Mr Ps credit file in 
relation to any item in this redress.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4766734