K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Telefonica  UK Limited, trading as O2, shouldnt have lent him money 
because he couldnt  afford to repay  it. His accounts went into arrears,  he was disconnected  
and charged fees. He wants  the outstanding balance written off and all negative markers 
removed from his credit file.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 12 June 2019, a 
copy of which is attached.
I set out why I thought the four loans,  which  were  made so that Mr M could obtain  two mobile 
phones and two tablets, shouldnt have been agreed.  I concluded  O2 should buy back  the 
debt from the debt collection agency and, on receipt of the four devices  from Mr M, write off 
the outstanding balance.  I also thought the account  should be removed from Mr Ms credit 
file.
O2 said it couldnt  buy back the debt until the devices had been returned.
Mr M responded to say, in summary,  that he would prefer to keep the first mobile phone  
and that O2 had previously agreed to buy back the debt without that phone being returned.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
O2 has agreed it will buy back the debt. Ive found that all four loans  were  mis-sold, so O2 
should buy back the debt for all four loans.
Before O2 is able to write off any of the outstanding  lending, it will need Mr M to return  the 
devices. If Mr M returns all four devices, O2 should write off the outstanding debt. As I set 
out in my provisional  decision, I dont find O2 would then need to refund any of the payments 
Mr M has made because hes had use of the four devices  and its fair that he pays for that 
use.
Mr M says he would like to keep his mobile  phone (the one he obtained using the first loan in 
June 2017). And I can understand why. But if he chooses to keep the phone and only return  
the three other  devices, he would still like O2 to write off the entire  debt  including the £420 
he still owes for the mobile  phone.
I need to be fair to both parties. And, whilst I have found O2 mis-sold the loan, I dont think 
its fair that Mr M should be able to keep something  that he hasnt paid for. So if he chooses 
to keep the phone, he will need to repay  the sum he still owes  for that device. As noted 
earlier, although Mr Ms paid some money  towards  the other devices, this reflects the use 
that hes had of those devices.
I would remind O2 of its obligation to treat Mr M positively and sympathetically if he is 
experiencing financial difficulties, particularly bearing in mind  it mis-sold these loans. It may 
wish to consider accepting a reduced  sum for the mobile phone, or agreeing an affordable 
repayment plan.
Ref: DRN45365032O2 should also arrange to remove the lending accounts from Mr Ms credit file.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Telefonica UK Limited, trading as O2 should:
1. Buy back all four debts from the debt collection  agency.
2. On receipt of the devices  from Mr M, write  off the outstanding balance  on each loan.
3. If Mr M decides  to keep one of the devices, O2 may continue to pursue Mr M for 
repayment of that debt, agreeing a repayment  plan which  is affordable  for Mr M.
4. Remove the loans from Mr Ms credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019. 
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN45365033copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr M complains that Telefonica UK Limited, trading as O2, shouldnt have lent him money  because  
he couldnt afford to repay it. His accounts  went into arrears, he was disconnected and charged  fees. 
He wants the outstanding balance written off and all negative markers  removed from his credit  file.
background
Mr M took out the following fixed sum loans  with O2:
11/06/2017 Phone £720
22/11/2017 Tablet £288
22/11/2017 Tablet £288
16/01/2018 Phone £240
All of the loans were interest free and repayable over 24 months.
By March  2018, Mr Ms account was in arrears  and in or around July 2018  the debt was sold to a debt 
collection agency.
Mr M complained to O2 saying  that the loans  for the two tablets and second phone  had been mis-
sold. He said he shouldnt have been allowed to add three  further device plans to his account  
because he couldnt afford to repay them.
O2 said Mr M had applied for the loans  online  and itd carried out a credit check  for each  application, 
which Mr M had passed. Hed agreed to the terms and conditions of the loans so, when he failed to 
make payment and the account  went  into arrears, O2 sold the debt to a debt collection agency.
Our adjudicator concluded  that the loans shouldnt have been agreed, based on Mr Ms credit file at 
the time which showed  he already had seven defaulted accounts which he was trying to repay. But, 
because the loans were  interest free, she didnt  think O2 was obliged to refund any sums or to write 
off the remaining balance as Mr M had had use of the devices. But she thought the reporting  of the 
account should be removed  from Mr Ms credit file.
O2 said it couldnt do this because the account had been sold.  It said it could buy back the account, 
write off the outstanding debt and then remove the entries from Mr Ms credit file. And it would do this 
if Mr M returned the devices.
Mr M didnt agree. He said, in summary  that:
 He shouldnt have to pay anything if the loans were mis-sold. 
 He didnt agree  the balance that had been sold to the debt collection  agency.
 Hes paid off the majority for the first handset, so its not fair he should have  to return it.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
When Mr M applied for each of the four loans,  O2 said it checked his credit history to make sure he 
would be able to repay the loans. O2 said Mr M passed its checks. But I agree with our adjudicator 
that, based  on the content of his credit  file, it looked more  likely than not that he would struggle to be 
able to afford  to repay new lending - he had seven accounts in default  which he was trying to repay.
Ref: DRN45365034So I dont think O2 acted  reasonably when it agreed to each of the loans.
In the circumstances,  I would usually ask O2 to refund any interest charges but in this case the loans 
were interest free. 
If Mr M wants  to keep the devices, its only fair that he pays for them.  But it doesnt look like he is in a 
position to do this. So I think, in these circumstances, O2 has made  a fair and reasonable offer  it will 
arrange to buy the debt back from the debt collection  agency and write it off, on receipt of the devices 
from Mr M.
Mr M doesnt agree  this is fair. Hes pointed out that he made 10 months payments for the first phone  
 so hes paid £300. He made  some  payments towards the other devices  so hes paid £388 in total. 
But hes had the first phone for nearly  two years, the second phone  for around 16 months and the two 
tablets for around  18 months. Hes been able to use those devices. And they must still have some 
value should Mr M keep  them and then subsequently sell them. So I think the amount hes paid is 
very fair for the use that hes had of each of the devices.
Mr M disputes the balance of the account that was sold to the debt collection agency. To clarify, a 
total of £1,394.31 was sold, made up as follows:
11/06/2017 Phone £420.00
22/11/2017 Tablet £256.00
22/11/2017 Tablet £232.00
16/01/2018 Phone £240.00
Airtime bills £246.31
Total: £1,394.31
The airtime bills are not consumer credit  accounts so are outside of our jurisdiction and do not form 
part of my decision. I include them here simply  to help Mr M reconcile the figures.
Finally, Mr Ms credit  file has been affected. O2 should arrange  to remove the account from his credit 
file when it writes off the outstanding balance. To be clear,  this doesnt include the airtime bills.
Should Mr M decide he doesnt want to accept  my decision, the debt will remain with the debt 
collection agency. He will need to complain to it if he wants his credit file to be amended.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Telefonica UK Limited, trading as O2, should:
1. Buy back the debt from the debt collection agency and, on receipt of the four devices from Mr M, 
write off the outstanding  balance.
2. Remove the account from Mr Ms credit file.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4536503