K821x#15complaint
Miss Y says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about eight payday  loans Quick Quid provided  to Miss Y from December 
2010 onwards.  Miss Ys last loan was provided in November  2012.  
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ys complaint and thought that the loans from loan 
three onwards shouldnt  have been  given.  
Quick Quid didnt agree with our adjudicators view in full. As the parties havent been able to 
agree on a resolution the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Miss Y could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ys complaint.
Ref: DRN48605892As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans three and four would more 
likely than not have  shown that:
the loan repayment required represented  a significant proportion  of Miss Ys monthly 
income. In these circumstances, there was a significant risk that Miss Y wouldnt 
have been able to repay these loans without undue difficulty  or borrowing further
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Miss Y, I also think  
that Quick Quid should  reasonably have seen that Miss Y was unlikely to have been able to 
make her loan repayments in a sustainable  manner by the time it provided loan five. I say 
this because:
by this stage, Miss Y was into her seventh month of owing Quick Quid money. In my 
view, Miss Ys loan history up until this point was in itself a clear  demonstration of her 
inability to settle his loans  over the life of the credit agreement.
Miss Y continued to be provided with new loans  shortly after having repaid previous 
ones. And these loans  were for substantial amounts  too. So Quick Quid  ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Miss Y was having to borrow further to cover 
the hole the repayment of her previous loans left in her finances  and that Miss Ys 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
Miss Y wasnt making any real inroads into what she owed Quick Quid and her 
indebtedness was being prolonged for an extended  period of time. Loan eight was 
provided almost a year and a half after Miss Ys first. And the total amount advanced  
was for almost four times the amount of Miss Ys first loan.  This meant  that Miss Y 
paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service  a debt to Quick Quid  over an 
extended period.
I think that Miss Y lost out because  Quick Quid provided loans three  to eight because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ys indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the extended period of time Miss Y owed Quick Quid money was likely to have  had 
negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept her in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im partially upholding Miss Ys complaint and Quick Quid should put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss Y paid on loans three to seven;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN48605893the debt Quick Quid sold on for loan eight included interest and charges  that Miss Y 
shouldnt have  to pay. So Quick Quid should either contact the third party  debt 
purchaser and pay it an amount  to reduce whats due to the amount of what was 
borrowed, or buy back the debt from the third party and do this. Either way Quick  
Quid needs to ensure  that Miss Y paid, or pays, no more  in total than the amount she 
was lent
the period  of time Miss Y owed Quick  Quid money means that any information still 
recorded about loans five to seven is adverse. So all entries about these loans 
(where they remain) should be removed from Miss Ys credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Miss Y a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ys complaint.  Casheuronet  UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Miss Y compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4860589