K820x#14Complaint
Mr C has complained that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a fee-
paying Royalties  Gold packaged account.  He says that he was made to have one as a 
condition of him working for RBS.
Background
Mr C opened a fee-paying Royalties Gold account on 14 October 1999 which was later 
downgraded to a fee-free  current  account  on 26 May 2006.
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Cs complaint  and concluded that it hadnt been mis-
sold. Mr C disagreed and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  mis-sold packaged  bank  accounts  on our website and I have taken this 
into account when  considering this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is 
available and the wider circumstances at the time. Having considered everything that Mr C 
and RBS have  said and provided, I dont  uphold this complaint.  I will explain why.
Mr C says that he was told he had to take out a packaged  account as part of his 
employment. However RBS says that having  a packaged account wasnt  a requirement for 
Mr C. As the sale took place many years ago there  is little evidence  available  from the time. 
So I have  carefully  considered what  Mr C has said and compared this with the evidence that 
is available to determine what I think was likely to have happened.
Having weighed up what both parties have said, I think its more likely than not that Mr C 
was aware that he didnt  have to have a fee-paying  Royalties Gold  account. 
The reason  I say this is because  Mr C says he had a fee-free  account  before, so I think  he 
was aware that fee-free  accounts were generally  available. And given that this Account was 
being offered  at a discount  of only £3 per month  (reduced from £9 per month) whilst  he was 
a member of staff I think he may have thought it would work out as value for money rather 
than he thought he had to have  it.
At the time the Royalties  Gold account  provided  worldwide  travel insurance, accidental  death 
cover, purchase protection, card protection, extended warranty cover  and up to £250  interest  
free overdraft facility,  with preferential interest  rates on balances  overdrawn by more  than 
that amount   amongst  other benefits. 
When Mr C opened the account he applied for a £100 interest  free overdraft facility. And he 
says that he travelled occasionally. Therefore, by agreeing to the Royalties Gold account he 
was able to get an interest  free overdraft facility and worldwide travel insurance  for £3 per 
month. So I think its likely that he agreed  to the account as he was interested  in these 
features. 
Ref: DRN46516632Furthermore, if Mr C didnt want the Royalties Gold account, but was led to believe he had to 
have it whilst he was a member of staff, I wouldve expected Mr C to have downgraded his 
account to a fee-free  account as soon as he was no longer a member of staff.  But Mr C left 
in December 2001, yet kept the account  until May 2006. This is not consistent with the 
actions of someone who only agreed  to have a fee-paying account because  they thought 
they had no choice. On the contrary, Mr Cs actions are more consistent with someone who 
was interested  in what the account  offered,  especially as Mr C was then charged the full 
monthly fee after he left and still kept it.
Mr C has said that the reason why he kept the Royalties Gold account for so long was 
because he forgot he had it. But I can see that he paid RBS £10 on 20 February 2002 to 
obtain a copy  of his bank  statements. This makes me think its likely that he wouldve looked  
at the transactions on his account  and wouldve seen  that he was still paying a monthly  fee 
for his Royalties Gold account. I say this especially as there were periods when he was 
paying the monthly fee when hed not entered an overdraft  so I dont  think  he couldve  
mistook the fee to be an overdraft charge. 
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  than not that Mr C agreed  to open a 
Royalties Gold account because he was interested in the features that it offered and 
possibly, because he was able to get a discount on the monthly fee - rather  than because he 
was led to believe that he had to have  it.
I understand that with the benefit of hindsight Mr C may regret  his choice  to agree to this 
account especially  as he does not seem  to have used the insurance benefits  that the 
account came with. But this on its own does not mean that the account was mis-sold in the 
first instance  and for the reasons set out above  I dont think that it was. I appreciate  that this 
may be disappointing for Mr C and I can see his strength of feeling on the matter. But I hope 
I have been able to explain the reasons  why I have reached this outcome.
My final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4651663