K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Lloyds  Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs W bought a MPPI policy which started  in May 1995 to protect their mortgage 
repayments. The policy was added during a meeting with an advisor  from Lloyds.               
Mr and Mrs W were jointly covered against accidents, sickness and unemployment.   The 
policy and mortgage  ended in June 2003.
Mr and Mrs W believe Lloyds mis-sold  the policy. They say they were never offered the 
policy as optional and Lloyds did not explain what the policy  covered. If it had done, they say 
they would  have declined having it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr and Mrs W dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint because  of the following reasons:
I cant be sure how or if the policy was presented to Mr and Mrs W during the meeting 
and a lot of time has passed since they were sold it. Ive looked  at what  they said about 
how the policy was sold  including that they were not given a choice to have  it. But 
I think, after considering the documentation  provided  and what I know  of how Lloyds 
sold policies  at that time, it is most  likely that they were advised it was a good idea to 
have the insurance to protect their mortgage repayments, and they took it on that 
advice.
I have come to this conclusion  because  the sales documentation  I have suggests to me 
that the policy was presented as optional.  I can see on the mortgage application form 
that a box is ticked  agreeing to the MPPI policy. This would suggest to me that a 
conversation was had between  the advisor and Mr and Mrs W regarding  the cover and 
Mr and Mrs W then chose it by signing the application  form. So although it is possible 
the sale took place as Mr and Mrs W recollect, I have not seen enough information to 
support what they say so that I can safely conclude  anything  other  than they were given 
a choice to have the policy.
Moving on, I think Lloyds recommended  the MPPI to Mr and Mrs W, but it doesnt look 
as if it was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs W based on what Ive seen of their circumstances 
at the time. The benefits provided by the policy would have paid out in addition to the 
provisions they had (6 months full and 6 months half sick pay), in a difficult  time. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  have enough provisions  that I can see at the time of sale that would 
have meant they wouldnt have  had at least some use of the benefit offered by having 
Ref: DRN42759782the cover. I can also see no other reasons such as a significant  or restrictive term that 
would make the policy unsuitable.
Im unsure as to whether Lloyds clearly disclosed the costs of the policy  to                   
Mr and Mrs W. But even if it did, it wouldnt have changed  Mr and Mrs Ws decision to 
have the policy  for the reasons I have already given. It was reasonably priced compared 
to similar policies available at the time and to the monthly  mortgage  repayment. And   
Mr and Mrs W could  have cancelled the MPPI  if it did become unaffordable.
I consider that the policy provided  Mr and Mrs W with a useful additional benefit (over  
and above their provisions) for a reasonable cost to protect  their home  in the event that 
it was necessary for Mr and Mrs W to make a claim. Its possible Lloyds didnt  point out 
the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its unlikely Mr and Mrs W wouldve been 
affected by any of these  based on their circumstances  at the time.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs W, but on balance,  I do not uphold 
their complaint for the reasons that I have given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4275978