K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited has recorded an incident  and 
charged him an additional premium for his car insurance policy after he enquired  about a 
possible claim.
background
When Mr G had his car serviced  in March 2018  he was told that his air conditioning (AC) 
system was low on refrigerant due to a puncture to the condenser unit. He was told that this 
was most likely caused by a small stone and he had this fixed  in May at the cost of £811. 
Mr G asked Admiral  (his insurer) about  the possibility of making  a claim for the damage to 
the AC. No claim was made but Admiral recorded  this as a fault incident and charged Mr G 
an additional  premium  of £166.88  the difference between the premium  he was charged at 
the last renewal and what  he wouldve been charged if Admiral  had known about the 
damage to the AC. Admiral took this money  from Mr Gs credit  card,  despite Mr G telling 
them he didnt agree to paying  this.
Our investigator found that Admiral  hadnt acted reasonably.  He felt it was reasonable for Mr 
G to consider the damage to be maintenance  related so he didnt need to report this to 
Admiral - this wasnt a qualifying misrepresentation under the Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA). Because of this, Admiral werent able 
to take an additional premium without  Mr Gs consent and shouldnt  have recorded this as an 
incident. He recommended  Admiral refund the additional premium  to Mr G, remove the 
incident from the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE),  and pay Mr G an additional 
£100 to reflect the unnecessary distress and inconvenience this caused.
Admiral didnt agree with the investigator. Theyve  said a stone puncturing the AC unit is an 
incident under the insurance  policy, and isnt wear and tear. Because  of this they didnt 
agree to removing  the incident  from the CUE.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive listened to the call between Mr G and Admiral,  which took place on 15 May 2018.  In this 
call Mr G said he wasnt able to report the damage to the AC to Admiral when it happened, 
as he didnt know when  the damage had happened. He dealt with this as a maintenance 
issue when he became aware  of it, and only told Admiral because  a friend said to him that 
he may be able to make an insurance  claim. Mr G referred to this damage as being  caused 
by a stone chip,  and mentioned other  stone  chips on his car. Although  Admiral  recorded the 
damage, they also said in the call that stone chips were usual wear and tear.
Mr Gs insurance  policy  says that he must report any incident or accident  involving your car 
to Admiral immediately. But Mr G didnt  know when or where the damage to the AC unit 
happened, or that any damage had been  caused  until his car was serviced. At that point he 
considered this to be a maintenance issue, and there was no requirement for him to refer 
maintenance issues to Admiral. Because of this I agree  that there was no qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA.
Ref: DRN42246342Where a consumer hasnt made a claim and misrepresentation was discovered for some  
other reason (as was the case with the damage to Mr Gs car) CIDRA says the insurer can 
either choose to cancel  the policy or keep it going and settle  any potential future claims 
proportionately. Theyre not allowed to charge an additional premium  without  the consumers 
consent. I havent seen any evidence that Admiral discussed possible cancellation with Mr 
G, and he didnt give consent for the additional premium to be taken.
Given this I agree that Admiral should  refund the additional premium to Mr G, as they 
shouldnt have taken  this. Mr G has had to deal with this matter and wouldve been shocked 
to find out that his premium has increased. Because  of this I think  its fair that Admiral  also 
compensate Mr G £100 for the trouble and upset  this has caused him.
 While  Ive not seen  anything conclusively stating that the damage was caused by a stone,  I 
accept that all parties believe this was the cause. Admiral initially  told Mr G that stone  chips 
were wear  and tear, but they are now saying they arent. And given the uncertainties of 
when, where and how the damage happened, its arguable that any claim wouldve been  
rejected on the basis of wear and tear. 
Its my understanding that the CUE isnt for recording maintenance or wear and tear issues  
and, because of all of the unknowns, the information  Admiral  recorded on the CUE (an 
incident whereby  Mr G was at fault)  is almost  certainly factually incorrect.  Because  of this I 
also agree  this incident should be removed.
putting things right
Admiral should:
Refund Mr G the additional  premium plus 8% simple interest from the date the 
premium was charged to the date of the refund.
Pay Mr G £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Remove the incident from the Claims and Underwriting  Exchange.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Gs complaint about Admiral  Insurance 
Company Limited.  They must follow the directions above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4224634