K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that TSB Bank  plc hasnt refunded transactions he says he didnt make or 
otherwise authorise.
what happened
In July 2018, Mr P signed up for a free trial of diet pills. His card was charged £1.25 and 
£3.75, then a further payment of £24.95  was taken shortly afterwards. The next week, Mr P 
was charged another £99 and £94 by the merchant.
Mr P says he didnt authorise these  payments.  He thought he had only agreed to pay for the 
initial postage and packaging. He says he wasnt shown  any terms and conditions or asked  
to consent to future payments.
Mr P raised a dispute with TSB. They asked him for more information by email. Mr P phoned  
TSB to say hed replied, and asked  if theyd received it. TSB said theyd reply  soon,  but now 
say they didnt get the email. He later chased TSB again, and they told him to go back  to the 
merchant or to come to our service. Mr P came to our service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. He said it was for TSB to show  
that Mr P had authorised the disputed  payments, and they had not. He explained the 
relevant regulations and good practice,  including that the merchant needed Mr Ps explicit 
permission to take later payments and couldnt  hide them in the small print. While he 
accepted Mr P had authorised an initial payment, he hadnt seen enough  evidence  to show  
that the further payments  were brought to his attention  sufficiently.
TSB didnt  agree. They said they didnt police merchants,  and that the merchant probably 
wouldve clearly laid the terms  and conditions out. They felt Mr P had authorised all the 
payments involved.  They  didnt respond to our investigators request for them to get 
information from the merchant. They said theyd blocked any future  payments from the 
merchant, and felt theyd done  enough. They asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And I agree  with our investigators  
conclusions, for much  the same reasons.
Under the Payment  Services Regulations,  the payments  were  only authorised if Mr P 
consented to them. It isnt enough for TSB to rely on the fact that the card details were used.
It looks like when Mr P made his original payment, the merchant used his card details  to set 
up a continuous  payment  authority (CPA) for future payments. The Office  of Fair Trading 
(OFT) had guidelines about how these should be set up. The Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) has said the guidelines  still apply, and I think they reasonably set out what  good  
practice looks like. Among other things, the guidelines say:
It should be made clear when  the merchant is using a CPA;
The customer should actively agree to the amounts and frequency of the payments. 
Its not good enough to only have an opt-out clause.
Ref: DRN46072572The key parts of the CPA (such as dates and amounts) must be displayed clearly  
and not just hidden in the small print.
TSB say these guidelines  are for merchants, not banks. That may be the case, but theyre  
relevant in trying to understand if a customer really authorised a CPA or not.
Mr P says he wasnt told thered be future payments, or shown the terms and conditions. He 
says he didnt consent to future payments. His testimony has been  consistent and credible, 
and seems to fit with the way his card was used. The £1.25 and £3.75 were paid using the 
entry of Mr Ps card details, and appear to fit with what he said about  paying for postage and 
packaging; while it seems  the £24.95, £99, and £94 payments were taken using a CPA.
I tried to find the merchants website,  but could not see any trace of it, and it appears their 
phone has been  disconnected. This does not seem to support the merchant being genuine. 
And when  searching  for the company,  I found testimony from a number of consumers who 
also said the merchant  had taken their card details for postage and packaging  and then later 
made unauthorised charges of up to £99.
We asked TSB to get information from the merchant, but they have not done so. So theyve 
not provided any substantial evidence to show that Mr P actually consented  to the disputed  
transactions. Its not good enough for them to simply assume that the merchant would have 
clearly displayed the terms and conditions or got Mr Ps explicit informed consent for a CPA.
TSB say they had a broad mandate to accept payments  from merchants, and that they 
werent able to do more  under the chargeback  rules.  I understand their argument. But 
chargebacks are just one mechanism thats open to a bank to try and get a customers 
money back from a merchant. Under the Payment Services  Regulations, TSB are still 
required to refund unauthorised transactions  even if the bank didnt know  they were 
unauthorised at the time.
Taking into account everything  thats  been  said and provided, Im not persuaded that Mr P 
consented to all the disputed transactions or that TSB are entitled  to hold him responsible for 
them. I think its most likely that the initial £1.25  and £3.75 payments were authorised for 
postage and packaging, and that the rest were  unauthorised.
Lastly, TSB have accepted that they could have  been more helpful  in dealing with Mr Ps 
complaint, and I agree. Our investigator  recommended they pay £50 compensation, and 
I think thats fair in the circumstances of this case.
putting things right
TSB Bank plc should:
Refund the £24.95,  £99, and £94 transactions,  if theyve  not already been  refunded;
Pay simple interest  at the rate of 8% a year on those transactions, payable  from the 
date they were last debited until the date theyre  returned.
Pay Mr P £50 compensation for the trouble and upset they caused in the way they 
handled his complaint.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires TSB to take off tax from this simple  interest.  TSB must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax theyve  taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN46072573my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ps complaint, and direct TSB Bank  plc to put 
things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4607257