K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE cancelled her pet insurance policy whilst 
she had an ongoing  claim for one of her pets. 
All references to Great Lakes  include  the broker which administers this policy on its behalf.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 29 October  2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  Both sides to the dispute have seen my 
provisional decision on this case. I wont repeat all the details here, but will give a brief 
summary.
Mrs A was unhappy Great Lakes cancelled her lifetime policy.  Great Lakes  felt Mrs As 
behaviour was unreasonable and they had to protect their staff.  
In my provisional decision I was minded to uphold  the case. So I asked Great  Lakes to re-
instate the policy until it was due to renew in 2019  and assess  any treatment  Mrs A has had 
to pay during this period. Great Lakes could  consider the policy  renewal in line with its 
underwriting guidance  at the point  of renewal and it could deduct any premiums Mrs A 
should have paid for the policy from the date of cancellation for any payment Mrs A was due 
to receive. I also asked it to add 8% interest  to any possible payment Mrs A made  for 
treatment since the policy was cancelled. 
Since I issued my provisional  decision neither  Mrs A or Great  Lakes have accepted my 
findings. 
Mrs A says she doesnt agree that Great Lakes  should be able to consider her policy  in line 
with their underwriting criteria when  the policy was due to renew in 2019. She said she will 
not be able to get three out of her four pets insured elsewhere and wants this to be 
considered. Mrs A has also said she might not be able to get a third party  to talk to Great 
Lakes on her behalf. 
Great Lakes said Mrs A didnt have any outstanding claims when her policy was cancelled.  It 
feels it made various adjustments for Mrs A before it cancelled  the policy. It added its aware 
it needs to treat customers  fairly  but felt it needed  to protect its staff.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im still going to uphold 
it. 
Great Lakes hasnt been able to provide any further calls for me to consider. Based on what  
Ive listened to, I still think the policy  shouldnt  have been cancelled  when it was. 
Great Lakes has also said it did try and make reasonable adjustments before it decided to 
cancel the policy.  As I said in my provisional  decision, I note it tried to help Mrs A and that it 
also needs to protect  its staff. But I still believe  from the evidence  Ive reviewed Mrs As 
behaviour hadnt been  so challenging it couldnt  reasonably be expected  to continue with the 
cover at the point it decided to cancel the policy.
Ref: DRN44643882Mrs A has questioned why Great Lakes has the opportunity to review  the cover for her pets 
at renewal. I accept what Mrs A says about  getting  her pets insured with other insurers  and I 
understand she is finding this stressful. But Im not able to ask Great Lakes to insure her 
pets indefinitely.  Although  Mrs A has a lifetime policy, Great Lakes does have  the option of 
reviewing her cover in line with its underwriting  guidance at renewal. This includes its right to 
cancel the policy in line with the terms and conditions due to any behaviour from Mrs A it 
feels is unreasonable in the future. 
Mrs A has said she doesnt have anyone else who could act as a third party to talk to Great  
Lakes about her policy and any claims she may have. I dont have the authority  to tell Mrs A 
she must ask a third party to represent her. This is her decision to make. However, it is still 
my opinion that a third party  would be the best option here and would help Mrs A with the 
stress she experiences  when trying to deal with her claims. 
Great Lakes has said when the policy was cancelled it wasnt  aware of any ongoing  claims 
at that time. Ive reviewed the evidence and Im satisfied there werent any outstanding 
claims when the policy  was cancelled. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that Great Lakes Insurance  SE should  do the 
following; 
1.reinstate Mrs As policy from the date of cancellation to the date her policy was due to 
renew in 2019.  Mrs A will need to pay any premiums due from the date of the 
cancellation to policy renewal. 
2.consider her policy renewal in line with its underwriting guidance.
3.assess any treatment Mrs A has paid for within the timeframe set out in point number 1 
and any possible policy renewal in line with the terms and conditions of the reinstated  
and the renewed  policy.  
4.Great Lakes can deduct from the total amount any premiums  Mrs A would have paid 
from the date of the cancellation to policy renewal.  
5.where Great Lakes  has to make any payment to Mrs A it should add 8% simple interest 
per year from the date Mrs A paid for the treatment to the date this is paid. 
6.Great Lakes should remove any records  of the policy being cancelled.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4464388