K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs representative, a Claims Management  Company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited, 
trading as Positive Solutions Financial  Services  Limited  (the business). 
The CMC says that the investment carried a greater risk than Mr B was aware of or willing to 
take so wasnt  made aware of the downsides of investment.  
background
In February 2001,  Mr B was advised to invest £322.41 a month  into a Synergy Plan 
provided by a third-party, which  was to be used to pay for his £110,000 interest only 
mortgage, over a 20-year  term. 
The premiums were  invested through a Maxi-ISA  into four available  funds with the aim of 
steady capital growth. The performance  was determined by the performance of the units that 
were linked to the investment itself. The plan also included life and critical illness cover (CIC) 
with waiver of premium contribution. 
In May 2012   having contributed a total of £43,202   Mr B surrendered the investment for 
£39,211 (which  included deductions  for life cover  and CIC), to help pay part of his mortgage. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
short, he said:
The recommendation was suitable for Mr B. It met his objective for tax efficient 
savings, mortgage  protection  in the event of death or being  diagnosed with a critical 
illness, and premium  protection in the event  of long-term sickness  or disability. 
The contributions  were affordable, and the policy documentation  made  clear   in a 
fair and non-misleading way  the nature and operation of the investment. 
The Illustration  document made  clear  that in order  to repay the £110,000 mortgage at 
the end of the 20-year term, the investment would need to achieve a growth  of 7% 
but gave no guarantees that it would   with a premium of £322.41   be able to repay 
the mortgage.   
Mr B agreed that he was a medium risk investor and was aware that the investment  
could result in gains as well as losses. 
Mr B decided  to encash the investment early  11 years into the investment   and 
thats probably why he didnt achieve greater gains or be able to pay off his interest 
only mortgage that was set up for 20 years.  
The CMC disagreed with the investigators  view.  In short, it said:
Mr Bs primary objective was to borrow money to purchase  a new home based on a 
single income having  recently  divorced. 
The adviser provided the loan and repayment  advice together, and Mr B was pushed 
towards the interest only route, without  any consideration  to the previous mortgage 
and endowment plans he had in place. 
The adviser didnt  discuss  the re-assignment  of his endowment plans, Mr B thought  
they had to be split with his ex-wife. 
In 2001, Mr B held no other investment, and had no previous equity-based 
knowledge or experience of offshore investments and had no capacity for loss. 
Ref: DRN44426382The ISA funds recommended  significantly raised his risk exposure  from two With-
Profit endowments with guaranteed sum assured to funds with no minimum value 
guarantee. 
After 11 years he was left with a shortfall of 75% (or £60,000) of the principle amount 
borrowed which isnt a medium  risk at all. 
The adviser recommended that Mr B terminate his existing decreasing  term 
assurance (DTA)  policy for the current plan,  the only reason for this is commission.  
Mr B was already  in a mortgage  shortfall position  with a lower risk-based payment 
vehicle, to recommend  a similar  route with a higher risk was unsuitable. Mr B  aged 
50  was left with half his mortgage unpaid. 
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he said:
He agrees with Mr Hs overriding objective to buy a home, but hes considered the 
recorded objectives set out for the investment/repayment part of the agreement.  
Alternative loans  were considered  and illustrations produced  so Mr B wasnt 
pushed towards  an interest only mortgage. Mr B favoured the actively  managed  
multi-fund Maxi-ISA  product.  
Despite what the CMC says about  the DTA, Mr B wished to rationalise  his holdings in 
his sole name following  the split from his wife. The positives and negatives of selling 
two endowment policies were  discussed  and Mr B took this into account before 
agreeing a way forward. 
The investment  had every chance of success, but Mr B decided to encash early. He 
decided to cash in early, despite  the risks being made clear to him. 
The documentation  made clear that if Mr Bs investment wasnt on track, hed be 
contacted directly. 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators  view.  It said that whilst the investigators rationale 
was acknowledged,  he wanted a second opinion regarding Mr B being advised to take 
greater risk. 
The CMC felt that the adviser stressing  that his own mortgage  was linked to the repayment 
vehicle persuaded him that it was suitable  advice. It feels that the adviser was in breach of 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules 9.2.1, 9.2.2, and 9.3.4 and The Mortgages 
and Home Finance:  Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
One the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says Im not 
persuaded that the recommendation was unsuitable  in the circumstances. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Bs strength of feeling about  this matter. The CMC  has provided 
Ref: DRN44426383submissions to support  the complaint, which Ive read and considered  carefully. However, I 
hope Mr B wont take the fact my findings  focus on what I consider to be the central issues,  
and not in as much  detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by the CMC  and the business, and reach what  I think  is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  the CMC  says Im satisfied the 
recommendation met Mr Bs objective for tax efficient savings, mortgage protection  in the 
event of death or being diagnosed with a critical illness, and premium  protection in the event 
of long-term sickness or disability.
Im satisfied that his new circumstances were considered by the business  before making  the 
recommendation.  In  other words, Im satisfied the business offered Mr B advice based on 
what he wanted, and the information provided,  which I dont think is unreasonable.   
Despite the absence of a fact find, which given the passage of time I cant  blame the 
business for (and I also note the investment was surrendered in 2012), I think  its more  likely 
(than not) that Mr B was aware of the risks involved and was prepared  to take a greater risk 
given his objectives, even though there  were  no guarantees. 
I note the Illustration document provided  made clear that in order to repay the £110,000 
mortgage at the end of the 20-year  term, the investment would need to achieve a growth of 
7%, but no guarantees that it would (with a premium of £322.41)  be able to repay the 
mortgage.   
Im aware of the point the CMC makes about  the shortfall of almost  75% or £60000 of the 
principle borrowed which it says isnt a medium risk approach. But in the circumstances,  
Im unable to agree  that the recommendation or the risk was unsuitable. The investment was 
designed for a 20-year  term and not 11 years, so Im not surprised that Mr B has 
experienced a significant  shortfall  having  surrendered the investment halfway through its 
investment term. 
In my opinion this isnt of itself evidence that Mr B was advised  to take too much  risk. If hed 
kept the plan till maturity,  and then suffered a significant loss, the situation  would  be 
wouldve been different. 
So whilst I appreciate  that Mr B wasnt an experienced investor, Im persuaded that in this 
instance  given his objectives  he was willing to take a greater risk to be able to pay off his 
mortgage in 20 years time. So, Im unable to say that the recommendation was unsuitable in 
his circumstances.  
Im also satisfied that alternative loans were considered  and illustrations produced  so Mr 
B wasnt pushed  towards an interest only mortgage. On balance  I think  its more likely  (than  
not) Mr B favoured  the actively managed multi-fund Maxi-ISA product rather  than the 
alternatives discussed.  
Despite what the CMC says, in the circumstances Im unable  agree that the new plan was 
sold just to make commission. I note that Mr B was recently divorced and looking to buy his 
own property. So, I cant say that the business  has done anything  wrong  by offering advice 
based on his new circumstances  and needs.  
Ref: DRN44426384I note the CMC says Mr B thought his existing endowment plans had to be split with his ex-
wife  but he mightve had a good reason  for thinking this. Im mindful he just wanted his 
own policies  in his own name and splitting  the plans was a probably reasonable way 
forward.   
In any case, whilst I appreciate an alternative option  wouldve  been  to re-assign the 
endowment plans, I dont  think the business has done anything wrong in the circumstances 
just because Mr B wasnt advised  to so instead  of doing what  he thought was the correct 
course of action. 
Whilst Im aware of the concluding  points made by the CMC about potential  breaches of 
COBS (Rules 9.2.1, 9.2.2, and 9.3.4  and MCOBS  regarding suitability, in the circumstances 
given the reasons set out above, Im unable to agree that the business is in breach these.  
I dont think the adviser couldve foreseen Mr B encashing the policy  after 11 years  rather  
than keeping it to maturity. And for that Im unable to blame the adviser  or conclude that the 
advice was unsuitable because he inevitably experienced a shortfall.  
I appreciate Mr Bs overall  concerns with the situation and recognise  he will be disappointed 
Ive reached the same  conclusion as the investigator.  But having given the matter careful 
consideration, I dont  feel able to conclude that this complaint should be upheld. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4442638