K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about a renewal quote UK Insurance Limited, trading as Green Flag,  sent to 
him in relation to a breakdown policy. 
background
Mr D first took out breakdown cover with UKI in May 2017. The premium in 2017  and 2018 
was around £90 but in 2019, the renewal quote  was over £900.
Mr D says that the renewal quote  was set ridiculously high to deter him from taking out cover 
at all. He says that hes had poor customer service.  Mr D says that at the end of year one, 
he told UKI to renew his policy  automatically.  
Mr D wants UKI to give him a fair renewal premium,  proper customer service and 
compensation of £50 for the time hes spent  on this matter. 
In response to Mr Ds complaint, UKI said that it hadnt offered to renew  the policy 
automatically. It said that the renewal quote  of over £900 was correct, in line with its 
underwriting criteria and took into account the claims  Mr D had made previously. UKI 
apologised for its handling  of one of Mr Ds calls. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She said that in the particular 
circumstances here,  the renewal quote  wasnt unreasonable.  The investigator said that she 
hadnt seen evidence to show that Mr Ds policy should have renewed  automatically but that 
wasnt the best option for him, as he didnt accept UKIs  renewal quote.  She said that UKI 
had apologised  about poor customer service,  which she thought  was sufficient. 
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the extent  of the increase  wasnt  
justifiable. Mr D didnt  accept that UKI had done  enough  in relation to poor service. He says 
that UKI agreed  in 2018 to renew his policy  automatically. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt the regulator, so we cant direct UKI generally about how it conducts its 
business or sets its premiums. But I can look at whether it has treated Mr D fairly.  I think  it 
has and Ill explain why. 
UKI has provided me with confidential,  business  sensitive information  to explain how it 
calculated the renewal quote  it sent to Mr D in 2019.  Im afraid I cant share  that information 
with Mr D but Ive considered it carefully.  Im satisfied the price Mr D was quoted in 2019 
was calculated correctly  and that all of UKIs customers in Mr Ds position will have been 
charged a similar premium.
Ref: DRN44477842When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large  number of factors. 
In this case, UKI considered that Mr Ds circumstances presented a higher risk than some 
other customers. Its not down to me to tell UKI what factors it should take into account when 
assessing risk, nor how to go about its assessment. Different insurers will have different 
views on what  presents  a risk and the extent of that risk. Thats  essentially a matter  of 
commercial judgement and not something with which we would usually think  its fair to 
interfere.
Mr Ds 2018 policy didnt  limit the number of claims he could make,  as long as it wasnt  a 
repeat call-out  for the same problem. But the policy also said that the number of call-outs 
could affect future premiums, the type of cover offered or whether cover was offered at all. 
So, UKI was free to take into account  the number of claims Mr D had made previously when  
setting the 2019 premium.  
I can quite understand  why the 2019  renewal quote wasnt  acceptable to Mr D. As hes 
aware, it was open to him to decline  the renewal quote and look for a policy with another 
provider. 
Mr D says that in 2018, UKI agreed that his policy would renew automatically. UKI disputes  
that. I dont  think that I need to reach a conclusion about that, as Mr D didnt accept UKIs 
renewal quote, so he presumably wouldnt want his policy to renew automatically at that 
premium. 
UKI apologised for its handling of one of Mr Ds calls and said that it had provided  feedback  
to the manager concerned. I think thats sufficient. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr D but, for the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold  his complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4447784