K821x#15complaint
Mr Ps complaint is that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) mismanaged the 
administration of US Withholding Tax that was applied to his dividend income from a US 
shareholding (Somero Enterprises  Inc (SOM))  traded on the UK market   held within his 
Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP).  He says HSDL was/is  obliged to ensure the dividend  
was received gross or to reclaim any US Withholding  Tax applied to it.
background
Mr Ps complaint to HSDL initially referred to a total of $1,353  in US Withholding Tax 
deducted from his SOM dividend payments on 14 April 2017, 14 August 2017, 18 October 
2017 and 20 April 2018. His assertion that the tax ought to have  been  avoided or reclaimed 
by HSDL is based on the following:  
A term within the SIPP administration agreement which  says the administration  
service includes  Recovery  of any allowable tax deducted at source on investment 
income received  by your SIPP.
Article 10 (Dividends)  Paragraph 3(b) of the 2001 USA-UK Double Taxation 
Convention (DTC) which says  dividends shall not be taxed in the Contracting 
State of which the company paying dividends is a resident if the beneficial  owner of 
the dividends  is a resident of the other  Contracting State  and  a pension scheme, 
provided that such dividends are not derived from the carrying  on of a business, 
directly or indirectly, by such pension scheme.
Documentation from SOM which says US Withholding Tax applied to dividends  from 
its shares could be reduced  or reclaimed on the basis of an applicable tax treaty.
Mr Ps SIPP  account has distinct dealing and administration components, with reference  to a 
third party (AJ Bell) in relation to the latter. However, HSDL confirmed to this service that it 
holds responsibility  for the administration component relevant to the complaint. Its position  
on the complaint  has been as follows:
SOM is traded on the UK market but it is a US company with its income  primarily 
generated in the US, so dividends from it are subject to 30% US withholding tax.
For dividends from companies  traded on the US market  it has an arrangement  with 
its third party non-UK  custodian whereby,  based  on the shareholders completion of 
the W8BEN form, the tax rate can be reduced to 15%.
Initially, it considered  that this reduction  was inapplicable to Mr P because SOM was 
not traded  on the US market and because it does not have  an arrangement with its 
UK custodian to reduce or reclaim  Withholding Tax on dividend  from a US company  
that is traded on the UK market  regardless of having a W8BEN form in place. 
Upon review, it confirmed that reference to allowable tax in the term refers to the 
reduction to 15% achievable from having  a W8BEN form in place. It said Mr P had 
his W8BEN form in place from 12 October 2018;  that it expires on 31 December 
2021; and that in the future, whilst the form is valid, 15% of the 30% US withholding 
tax applied to his dividends will be reclaimed for him. 
It then corrected this position  and appears  to have reverted to its initial stance   that 
is, not being in a position to reduce or reclaim  US Withholding Tax for Mr P in the 
absence of a custodian arrangement to do so. It said it  is unable to deliver the 
benefits associated  with SIPPs and Withholding Tax to customers  but this is not a 
regulatory obligation  and that  AJ Bell do not offer a reclaim service either but 
Ref: DRN40729572instead rely upon a W-8BEN-E  which allows for custodian arrangements  to deliver 
SIPP benefits which HSDL is unable to. 
The matter  was referred to this service and considered by one of our adjudicators. Her 
conclusions were shared  before HSDL corrected its position and reverted to its initial  stance. 
She considered that the term and DTC provisions cited by Mr P were binding  on HSDL  in 
terms of recovering all of the US Withholding Tax deducted from his dividends. However, 
she sought to reflect what she understood from HSDL as being  its limit on recovering no 
more than 15%, so she proposed that Mr P should be compensated with the amount from 
the deducted tax that could have been  recovered within  its limit  in addition to £350 for the 
trouble and upset  caused to him.
Mr P responded to the adjudicators view and to HSDLs corrected position by insisting that 
the term and DTC provisions that bind HSDL entitle  him to compensation in the full amount 
of the US Withholding  Tax deducted  from his dividends  which  he updated to be a total of 
$1,980 after the addition  of a deduction applied on 26 April  and, as HSDL concedes, it is 
an entitlement arising from his SIPP and not one related to having a W8BEN  form in place. 
He also requested fair compensation  for the trouble caused by his pursuit  to resolve  the 
issue, as well as HSDLs  agreement to a free transfer out of his SIPP  to a new provider.
The matter  was then referred to me. Before issuing  this decision, the adjudicator  assisted 
me in sharing with HSDL,  and in requesting its response to, Mr Ps recent  comments and my 
observations (based  on available  evidence) on his comments and claims. HSDL  disagreed  
with Mr Ps comments  and with my observations. It said there is no regulatory obligation 
upon it to have done what Mr P says it was obliged  to do and that there  is no contractual  
obligation either, as reference to allowable tax in the term relates to tax that its 
infrastructure allows to be reclaimed and its position  remains that it was/is beyond  its service 
to reclaim the US Withholding Tax that Mr P seeks to recover.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am not persuaded, by HSDLs response, 
to depart from the observations that were put to it. The summary  (of my observations)  that 
was put to HSDL  was as follows:
The ombudsmans  observation so far in reviewing the case is that if the SlPP terms and 
the relevant  terms of the double taxation apply in [Mr Ps] favour, then he should be 
entitled to a full 30% refund; another  observation  that follows  is that Halifaxs  inability to 
uphold the relevant  SIPP terms, by recovering tax on income  deducted at source,  could 
mean the account is not what  was agreed  with [Mr P], so a free transfer  out could  be 
justified .
I am satisfied that Article  10 (Dividends)  Paragraph 3(b) of the DTC is as applicable  as 
asserted by Mr P and I do not consider that there  ought to be a dispute  in this respect. I do 
not suggest that it creates a regulatory obligation upon HSDL. It does not, but it does create  
the basis for Mr P to assert an entitlement to reclaim the US Withholding Tax that has been  
applied to dividends  received in his SIPP. The exception  in the DTC provision does not 
appear to apply to him. I have not seen evidence that the dividends  were derived from a 
business carried on by the SIPP.
I am also satisfied that the SOM documentation  cited by Mr P reflects  that the DTC is 
applicable to its dividends.
Ref: DRN40729573The next consideration is whether (or not) HSDL  was obliged to either ensure the dividends 
were received, gross, by Mr Ps SIPP or that the US Withholding Tax applied  to them  were  
reclaimed. I am persuaded that the contractual provisions are sufficient to determine  this 
matter, so I do not address HSDLs argument  about not having a regulatory  obligation.
The relevant  SIPP administration  term, as quoted in the background section above, appears 
to be reasonably clear. The administration service  to which Mr P was/is entitled 
includes/included the recovery of allowable tax deducted at source from income received in 
the SIPP. The agreement  does not appear to define  allowable or allowable tax distinctly, 
so I have given  the entire sentence of the quoted term its ordinary meaning  in the context  
of the overall SIPP administration service  that Mr P received. 
One of the benefits within a SIPP is the capacity  for protection of investment income from 
domestic taxes. This does not necessarily and/or automatically extend  to non-domestic 
taxes so there can be a possibility of such taxes  being applied  or allowed. I consider that 
the quoted term sought to confirm a service in which such allowable taxes will be recovered 
for the customer.  
In addition, US Withholding Tax was a deduction from the SOM dividends that was allowable  
and its recovery, because  the dividends were paid into a SIPP, is allowable under the DTC. I 
consider that either or both also probably  relate to what the quoted  term meant by allowable  
tax. The notion asserted by HSDL, that it meant tax that its infrastructure allowed it to 
recover, is less plausible.  If the term sought  to say this it would have done so in words  that 
made it reasonably  clear  that any such recovery depended on HSDL having the required 
infrastructure. Furthermore, it appears reasonable to question  why the quoted  term would 
exist in the agreement without meaningful qualification if, as it asserts, HSDL is unable  to 
recover any tax deducted at source on investment income received by a SIPP  such  as its 
claim that it is unable to recover US Withholding Tax for SIPP  customers.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I am persuaded that Mr Ps complaint 
should be upheld.  His entitlement  to compensation for the total US Withholding Tax 
deducted from his SOM dividends has been  established. In addition,  the message from 
HSDL to him at present  appears to be that it does not consider itself bound  to reclaim such 
deductions for him in the future. I am persuaded that the agreement upon which he engaged  
its service entitles him to expect such future  recoveries, so it appears from what HSDL says 
that the service  is not what was agreed  with him. On this basis,  it is fair for him to be granted 
a free transfer out of his SIPP.
what must  HSDL  do? 
Pay Mr P compensation  in the amount of the total US Withholding Tax deducted from 
his SOM dividend payments on 14 April 2017,  14 August 2017, 18 October  2017,  20 
April 2018 and the latest payment he referred to as taking place on 26 April 2019. Mr 
P says the total is $1,980.  HSDL must conduct  a clear and simple calculation  to 
reflect the compensation due. This compensation should  be paid into Mr Ps SIPP 
unless such payment will have a detrimental effect   if so, it should  be paid as 
instructed by him. Interest, at the rate of 8% simple per year,  will apply to this 
compensation if it is not paid to Mr P within 28 days of HSDL being notified  of his 
acceptance of this decision. Income  tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Pay Mr P £350 for the trouble and upset caused  to him in this matter.
Ref: DRN40729574Arrange, for Mr P, a free (free of charges) transfer out of his SIPP  from HSDL  to a 
new firm of his choice.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint. I order Halifax Share Dealing 
Limited to redress his complaint as detailed above and to give him a calculation  of the 
compensation amount in a clear  and simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4072957