K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the time it took to get through to Santander UK plc (Santander) on the 
telephone during December 2018  and January 2019. He would like compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience.
background
Mr B says he primarily uses telephone  banking services. He is happy  overall  with the service 
from Santander but says he experienced delays in getting through to the bank by phone in 
December 2018  and January 2019.  He says on one occasion he had to wait over seventy 
minutes which he doesnt think is acceptable.  
He says when  he raised  this with Santander  he wasnt  happy  with the response.  He didnt 
feel the bank took him seriously. He is also not happy with the service from Santanders 
Executive Communications team. He thinks a small amount  of compensation for the 
inconvenience would be reasonable.
Santander acknowledged that it can be frustrating  for customers if call wait times are longer  
than expected. But it explained that there  are times  when its call centres are busier than 
expected. At those  times  customers  have the option  of calling back at a later date or
arranging to access their account by other  means,  such as online banking. It didnt feel any 
compensation was appropriate.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He felt that Santander had treated Mr B fairly 
and had shown  it had taken Mr Bs concerns  seriously by assigning  its Executive 
Communicators team  to deal with Mr Bs complaints. He didnt feel any compensation was 
necessary as he didnt  feel Santander had any control over how busy its phone lines were
.
Mr B didnt accept this view. He felt Santander had set up its Executive Team to make  sure 
compensation isnt paid to consumers. He felt he did deserve compensation. He also 
disagreed that Santander couldnt  help how busy its phone lines were.  And said he had just 
had a further call with Santander  where a member  of staff had been  rude to him when he 
said offered to  drop his case if Santander  offered him a gesture of goodwill. He asked our 
investigator to get a copy of this call.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view.  He decided not to 
request the phone call Mr B referred to since  it he felt it was outside of the time frame of the 
original complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B feels  strongly about this so I appreciate he is going to be disappointed  as Ive reached  
the same  view as our investigator.
Ive considered Mr Bs response to listen to his last phone call with Santander but have 
decided not to ask for this call. Mr Bs complaint is specifically  about the time it took to deal 
with his calls in December  2018  and January 2019  so this last call isnt relevant to that part 
of his complaint.  In terms of how Santander has treated  Mr B I felt I had enough information 
Ref: DRN48834972to make my view already  without listening to one specific phone  call. I have however read all 
of the documents Mr B submitted after our investigators view.
Santander records its phone calls so can tell the duration of actual calls.  But it doesnt record 
waiting times. So I have no way of knowing just how long Mr Bs calls have  taken. 
I can appreciate its frustrating not to be able to speak to someone immediately when a call is 
made. But unfortunately thats not always possible.  Mr B thinks Santander should be able to 
manage its phone lines.  I believe in, as much  as it can, it does. It has explained that it 
monitors call volumes to try to ensure that staffing volumes are adequate .But that isnt an 
exact science  so, being realistic, there  will be times  when volumes  are either  unpredictably 
high or low. I think that has to be expected.
. 
We dont routinely award compensation  because a consumer has been kept waiting. I have 
noted however  that Santander did credit  Mr Bs account with £25 in September 2018 for the 
same issue   time taken  on the telephone. But just because a business  pays compensation 
for one problem on one occasion it doesnt mean its always  appropriate to always  pay 
compensation  even  if the same problem  arises.
On this occasion I dont believe compensation is appropriate  Mr B could have chosen to 
have called back at less busy times. And ultimately if Mr B is finding Santander too 
frustrating to deal with he can of course  chose to bank elsewhere.
When looking through all the information I have I was pleased  to see however that at one 
point Mr B acknowledged to our investigator that the time taken  to answer calls had 
dramatically improved
His main issue  then seemed to be what he felt was the poor attitude of the complaints team 
he was dealing with including, if I have understood correctly, having  to wait over seventy 
minutes on the phone  on one occasion to this team. 
In terms of the time Mr B said he had to wait on the phone the same  points I have already 
made about Santanders response times apply here so I am not going to repeat those.
In terms of the attitude of the Communications  Team  I have  read all of the correspondence  
Mr B has sent me most of which I had already  seen  as it had been  provided by Santander. I 
agree with our investigator that its a measure of how seriously Santander  took Mr B that it 
has had it Executive Communications Team dealing  with his complaints.
I found all the correspondence I read to be polite, professional and in many cases  very 
detailed in its responses to Mr Bs complaints.   I dont feel I have seen  any evidence of the 
poor attitude that Mr B refers to.
I have also seen no evidence to show that Santander set up this team  up simply to avoid 
paying compensation to consumers as Mr B suggests. Its a business  decision for Santander 
to take as to how it deals  with complaints.
I dont believe Mr B has given me any evidence  that Santander has done  anything wrong 
and therefore  that compensation might  be appropriate. 
Ref: DRN48834973my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombusman
Ref: DRN4883497