K820x#14complaint
Miss Ms unhappy that Calpe Insurance Company Limited has asked her to pay the third 
partys claim  costs  and with the way its dealt with her when she made a claim on her motor 
insurance policy.
background
Miss M had a motor  insurance policy with Calpe. In December  2016 a third party  made a 
claim against her. She said she put her foot on the accelerator not the brake at a petrol  
station, the incident was minor and the third partys  car wasnt apparently damaged.
Calpe subsequently settled the third partys claim by paying £2,671. It considered  the 
evidence it had  including from the third partys engineer, photos and what the parties had 
said  was consistent with what the third party alleged and claimed. As Miss Ms Calpe 
policy had a £3,000 all sections policy excess and the amount it had paid was less than that 
it asked her to pay that amount. 
Miss M wasnt  happy with having to pay this. She said this was minor accident  and she 
considered the third partys claim to be false.  She questioned  the evidence  and amounts.  
She also questioned why some documents sent to her had been redacted  and was unhappy 
with the way Calpe had dealt with her.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. In summary she said:
Miss Ms policy says she must pay the first £3,000 of any claim regardless of who is 
to blame. Calpe also has the right to defend and settle a claim. Miss Ms car hit the 
third partys vehicle and she was at fault for the accident. Calpe has an obligation  to 
deal with any claim that is made. That is what it did.
Calpe  examined  all the available evidence and tried to minimise  the amounts paid 
out. But it was threatened  with legal action and to minimise what  was paid out it had 
to settle the claim  including hire car costs.  Some details in documents  were  redacted 
for data protection reasons. Theres nothing to support Miss Ms contention  that the 
third party  vehicle  was only worth £1,400 and shouldve been written  off. Theres also 
nothing to suggest the third partys claim was fraudulent  or overblown. The damage  
was assessed  by an engineer and the amounts claimed were consistent with the 
evidence and parties versions  of events. 
Calpes decision to settle the third partys claim, as it did, was fair and reasonable. It 
was also in line with Miss Ms policy terms and conditions.  Its request for Miss M to 
pay the third partys claim costs  totalling  £2,671 is fair as this amount falls under the 
£3,000 all sections  policy  excess outlined in the policy terms and conditions.
Calpe  did significantly delay responding in full to Miss Ms complaint. But this hasnt 
impacted on the outcome of the claim, the complaint or the amount  Miss M is being 
asked to pay.
Miss M doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  In summary she says there 
was minimal to no damage  to the other  vehicle and the claim costs arent warranted. She 
doesnt agree with the amounts Calpe has agreed to pay the third party. The other cars 
£1,400 value is readily available  on the internet. Theres no evidence of the other  partys  
Ref: DRN45597002engineers qualifications. She doesnt  think she should have to pay £2,671. Calpe hasnt 
acted in line with the policy terms and conditions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has very strong views about  what has happened and has provided detailed  
submissions to support  her complaint. Ive read and considered them all. But my findings are 
expressed in considerably  less detail. And they focus on what I think are the main  issues.
Under the terms of Miss Ms policy Calpe is obliged to deal with the third partys claim.  And it 
is entitled to defend and settle a claim as it sees fit. It also doesnt need Miss Ms approval of 
any decision  to admit liability, settle  a claim or make a payment to a third party.
In this case Calpe considered what the parties  said, the alleged damage  to each vehicle, the 
engineers view obtained by the third partys insurer and some photos taken after the 
incident. Miss M said she was in a petrol  station and when  too far from a pump  she moved 
her car but put her foot on the accelerator  rather than the brake.  There was a minor collision.
Overall I think  Calpe was entitled  to take all of this into account and it was reasonable for it 
to rely on the engineers report as an expert view which indicated  the third partys car should 
be repaired. 
Calpe clearly tried to minimise the amounts being claimed and agreed to pay the claim in a 
total of £2,671 when  threatened with legal proceedings which  wouldve considerably 
increased the potential costs  of the claim. Theres also no evidence especially from the 
engineer that the third partys  car shouldve been  written off.
Miss M may disagree with what Calpe has done  but I dont think  its failed to comply with the 
policy terms or exercised  its discretion unfairly  or unreasonably when deciding to settle  the 
third partys  claim  for the amounts its done. Its also entitled to ask her to pay £2,671  as its 
less than her £3,000  all sections  excess on the policy.  
I understand Miss Ms frustration at the way Calpe handled her particularly with the delay in 
responding to her complaint. But I dont  think this delay affected the outcome of the claim or 
the amount she is being asked to pay. And I dont  think this warrants any payment of 
compensation as all consumers experience some inconvenience in dealing with a claim on a 
motor insurance policy.
Taking everything into account  I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require  Calpe to do 
anything more. And I dont see a compelling  reason to change the proposed outcome in this 
case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2020.
Ref: DRN45597003Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4559700