K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr R bought the policy in May 1989  at the same time as taking out a secured loan. Mr R 
says the PPI was sold to him over the telephone. But Halifax  told us it thought it sold the 
cover in one of its branches. 
The loan was repayable over a 20-year term. The monthly loan repayment was £105.91 with 
the PPI costing an additional  £4.36  making  the total monthly repayment  £110.27.  The policy 
didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either party  with 30 days notice without 
penalty. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr R for accident, sickness,  unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr Rs monthly  loan repayment  for up to 
24 months in the event  of a successful disability  claim  and 24 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr R was employed.  He told us he was entitled to six months full pay and six 
months half pay if he was off sick from work.  In his PPI questionnaire, he told us he had a 
medical condition,  but he did not give any further  details about  that. Following further 
enquiries by our adjudicator, it is understood that the onset of Mr Rs medical condition was 
December 1997.   
Halifax sent us screenshots to show that the loan account was closed in September 2006. 
Mr Rs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Rs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr R wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Rs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr R about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr R and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN45967462Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Rs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs complaint
This sale took place  in 1989 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for  Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN45967463I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Rs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr R with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr R sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr R, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent he suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr R and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr R know  he had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
It was not argued  on behalf of Mr R that the optional nature of the policy was not made  clear.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld on that basis.  And although  a 
Ref: DRN45967464detailed reply was received  to our adjudicators view, those representing Mr R did not take 
issue with what he said on this point.  
For clarity,  I can see that PPI would  have been  set out as a separate  transaction  on Mr Rs 
mortgage statement. And if he hadnt agreed to buy PPI, I think  he would have questioned 
what those transactions  were for. The evidence doesnt suggest he did. As I said above, this 
loan was secured  on Mr Rs home. He had taken out a first mortgage  with Halifax in 1988 
and didnt buy PPI cover. So I think  its most  likely to have been clear that PPI wasnt  a 
requirement of taking out borrowing with Halifax.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr R knew the policy was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Mr R says this PPI policy was sold to him over the telephone and that Halifax did not advise 
him to buy the cover. However, the evidence  Ive seen suggests  the cover  was sold in a 
Halifax branch. With that in mind, I think its most likely that Halifax  did advise Mr R to take 
this PPI policy out. This means it had to advise Mr R with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given his needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr R. Given he wasnt able to recall how the cover  was sold, it seems  
Mr R cant remember  clearly what happened. There is no record of what  the adviser 
discussed in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. 
The adviser had some limited information about  Mr Rs financial circumstances, but there  is 
no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps  to establish whether Mr R would  have 
been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  
did not fully meet his needs. For example, there is nothing to suggest  Halifax considered 
whether Mr R had any pre-existing medical conditions.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr R, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr R met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr R had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Rs ability  to continue to meet 
his loan repayments would have been  put under strain if he was not working for an 
extended period  of time  even  allowing for the redundancy  benefits and sick pay he 
says he would have  been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr R.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr R. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Rs employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  
for him to claim. I can see that in his PPI questionnaire, Mr R said he had a pre-
existing medical condition at the point of sale. However, the onset of that medical 
condition appears to be December 1997,  which is eight years after the cover was 
Ref: DRN45967465sold. I am not aware that Mr R suffered from any other medical  conditions.  And I note 
that those representing Mr R did not dispute  what our adjudicator said about the 
medical condition  presenting  itself after the date of sale. There  were also no 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr R sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what Halifax  
was recommending to him and make an informed  decision about whether  to follow  that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr R was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr R was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr R would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr R agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr R Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr R. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr R all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Rs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Rs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Rs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr R about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Rs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
Ref: DRN45967466way Mr R has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
What effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings have  on Mr R? To what extent did Mr R suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr R. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr R suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr R would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Halifax done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr R, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr R has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things properly, 
Mr R would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr R says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr R had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Rs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr R knew  he would have to pay something 
for the policy, its not clear whether Halifax told him the exact  premium  at the point he 
applied for the policy. As Ive set out above, the cover cost £4.36 per month.  It seems  most 
likely Mr R would have been told the cost before the policy started  and he paid for the policy  
for a number of years. So if the costs were significantly at odds with his expectations at the 
point of sale, its possible he might  have raised  that with Halifax at the time, or reconsidered 
his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr R would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
Ref: DRN45967467In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr R would  get back in return 
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Rs expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his loan 
repayment) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr R thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr R was aware  of in 
the 12 months before the policy started and which recurred in the first 12 months  
from the start date of the cover. 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr R 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr R be unable  to 
do his own job or a similar  job which his knowledge  and training reasonably qualified  
him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr R pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr R from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I must reiterate that Mr Rs loan was secured on his 
home, so the consequences of him falling behind with his loan repayments could have been 
significant. The PPI would  have covered his mortgage repayments for considerably longer 
than the means  he already had in place. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions. Although I accept he became 
unwell in December  1997, Im not aware  that Mr R had any pre-existing  medical  conditions  
at the date of sale and he was in permanent employment. So, I still think  he had some good  
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr R would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr R had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  have been 
able to undertake,  it might  have played  into his thinking about  what he would have done. 
And I accept  it may have  given him pause for thought  although its possible he may not 
have been overly concerned given that if Mr R was unable (through disability) to carry on his 
own occupation the chances  that he would be able to take up a similar occupation  would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr R would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for him, was 
Ref: DRN45967468sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  were  Mr R made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr R 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Rs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr R would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr R 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr R believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr R in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr R compensation,  as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Rs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade 
me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr R in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN45967469my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2020
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4596746