K821x#15Complaint
Miss H complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited (Red Sands) 
treated her unfairly by declining her claim under  her pet insurance  policy.
Background
Miss H had a lifetime pet insurance  policy with Red Sands for her puppy  which  she took out 
in April 2017. Between January 2018  and February 2018, the puppy was treated for a 
problem with his right front leg and diagnosed with a limb deformity. The vet recommended 
the puppy should have  surgery,  so in March 2018 Miss H claimed on her policy.
Red Sands  wouldnt  pay the claim. They explained  that on the claim form Miss H submitted, 
shed noted the puppy had an issue with his right front leg. And when theyd received further 
details from the vet, these  confirmed there had been  previous discussions about the same 
leg before  Miss H had taken out the policy. Red Sands felt the puppy was suffering  from a 
congenital condition  which  wouldnt  be covered under  the policy.
Red Sands  also said the policy terms and conditions  noted if the puppy had any clinical  
signs, accident, injury or illness before the policy had started, or within the 14 day cooling off 
period they could apply an exclusion to the policy. Following the declined  claim, they added 
exclusions on all claims for the puppys right and left fore legs in their entirety, to 
retrospectively take effect from the start of the policy.
Miss H didnt agree with the declined claim. She said the notes initially received from the vet 
were incorrect and gave  Red Sands a report from a different vet stating the puppy was 
suffering from a growth plate injury. She said that because the previous  vet had said there 
were no issues,  this meant there were no conditions or symptoms. So she complained and 
asked Red Sands to reconsider the claim.  
Red Sands  didnt uphold the complaint. They  said although they didnt dispute the puppy 
wasnt suffering from a congenital condition, he was over eighteen months old when the 
policy had been  taken out with them. And the vets records  showed Miss H had already 
raised concerns  with them about the puppys leg. So Red Sands said it was likely the injury  
causing the condition had happened before the policy had started. They  explained that 
Miss H had also spoken to the vets about the condition within fourteen  days of the policy  
start date, which meant the puppy  was suffering from a pre-existing condition.  So they 
couldnt pay the claim as pre-existing conditions werent covered under the policy.     
Miss H didnt think that was fair. She said when shed  previously  been  to her vets theyd said 
there were no issues with the puppys  leg so she wasnt  concerned as he was still growing. 
She said shed previously had an insurance  policy with another provider, so it wasnt that 
she was just trying to get Red Sands  to cover the cost of the treatment. So she asked this 
service to look into her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She said both vets had said the 
puppy was suffering with his condition before Miss H had taken out the policy. And she 
thought it was reasonable for Red Sands  to rely on this information. So she felt Red Sands 
had declined  the claim fairly as the puppy  was suffering from a pre-existing condition.  
Miss H didnt agree. She felt shed  been mis-informed  by the original vet and not everything  
had been recorded. She also felt it was unreasonable shed been given several different 
Ref: DRN46958822reasons for declining the claim and that her personal  circumstances  hadnt  been taken into 
account. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the case has been passed  to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 August 2019. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
claim part of the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.  However,  I 
have thought more widely about  the complaint and I think the exclusions applied by 
Red Sands  also need  to be considered.  So Ill be upholding the complaint in part. Ill explain 
why.
The claim 
Miss H feels Red Sands  have declined  her claim unfairly as theyve given her different 
reasons each time shes claimed  and I dont disagree. However,  Ive seen that Miss H was 
given a policy schedule  and terms and conditions which say under the exclusions section 
that any pre-existing condition or claims for costs  relating to an injury  or illness  that relates 
to or results  from an accident,  illness or clinical signs  your pet had before the 
commencement date wouldnt be covered. So I dont think in this case  it was relevant what 
Red Sands  actually called the puppys  condition. I think  the issue is whether that condition  
had occurred before the policy had been  taken  out and if Miss H was aware there  was 
something wrong which could likely lead to some  investigation or treatment. 
Miss H disputes Red Sands view that her claim was related to a pre-existing condition  as 
she said there wasnt an issue  with the puppys  leg before she took out the policy. She also 
feels the vets records  arent a full account of what was discussed when the puppy was 
assessed by them. She said the vets had told her there were no issues with the puppys  leg 
and nothing could  be done until hed finished  growing  anyway.  
Ive seen the vets notes  from May 2016  which says the puppys  foot seems  to turn out 
significantly, and I recognise Miss H felt it was unfair for Red Sands to rely on this note as it 
was recorded  by a nurse  not a vet. However,  I think  the note is clear  this could be a bigger 
issue which is why it was recommended  Miss H make  another appointment to see a vet. I 
recognise Miss H said she didnt attend the follow-up vet appointment due to her personal 
circumstances, but I think  its reasonable for Red Sands to rely on the evidence presented to 
them that the puppy already had a condition which required  investigation  at this point. 
Ive also seen that on several  occasions Miss H discussed the puppys condition  both before 
shed taken out the policy and within fourteen days of the policy starting.  The policy wording  
says a pre-existing condition means  any condition, symptom or sign of a condition  occurring 
or existing  in any form and at any time prior to the commencement date or any illness,  
symptom or sign of an illness occurring or existing in any form during the first 14 days of the 
commencement date. 
So even if Red Sands had discounted  the comments made by the nurse  initially, the vet 
notes which  were recorded within eight days of the policy being taken out said fore leg very 
turned out, has been mentioned before. Which meant this condition  still wouldve been 
declined as pre-existing  as the vets had made  reference to it in their notes as having  been 
previously discussed.  Im satisfied based on the evidence Ive seen that the claim Miss H 
Ref: DRN46958823subsequently made  was related to this condition and so it was fair for Red Sands to decline 
the claim.  
Overall, based on the circumstances  of this case, I think  its fair and reasonable for 
Red Sands  to rely on the policy exclusion mentioned above to decline Miss Hs claim. 
Id like to reassure Miss H that Ive carefully  read all the information shes provided and I 
understand why she feels  strongly about  what happened.  I realise this wont be the outcome 
Miss H was hoping for, but I think Red Sands made  a decision which  was in line with the 
policy terms and I think that was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her case. So I 
wont be asking them to do anything more.
Exclusions
Red Sands  didnt ask Miss H about pre-existing conditions when she bought  the policy. If it 
had, and Miss H misrepresented the answers,  it might be fair to apply exclusions 
retrospectively  if thats what they would have done, had they known the true position.  The 
law allows this in some circumstances  where  theres been a relevant misrepresentation. But 
Red Sands  hasnt shown me they asked  Miss H those questions so there  isnt an issue  of 
misrepresentation.
When Miss H bought the policy  Red Sands  only asked her to tick a box to say shed  read the 
Terms and Conditions, Policy Terms and Assumptions made about the policy. One of those 
Assumptions is that Red Sands reserves the right to apply  an exclusion to the policy in 
respect of any illnesses, injuries, symptoms or conditions it subsequently learns were pre-
existing or existing at the start of the policy (or within the first 14 days). The relevant 
condition was a Limb Deformity RF Secondary to Growth Plate Injury as a Puppy. But 
Red Sands  have imposed exclusions that are very broad in scope which I dont think  is fair 
or reasonable.
The way the Assumption is worded allows Red Sands to impose  any exclusion whether it 
relates to the specific condition or not, effectively allowing Red Sands complete discretion to 
exclude anything   which I feel theyve done in this case. The exclusion Red Sands have 
applied for Miss Hs puppy  relate  to claims  for the right Fore Leg in its entirety and the Left 
Fore Leg in its entirety, which I dont think is fair. 
Red Sands  should  remove  the exclusion on all claims with respect to the Right  Fore Leg in 
its entirety and the Left Fore Leg in its entirety with effect from the start of the policy. They  
cant rely on the exclusions to decline future claim which werent  related to the pre-existing  
condition mentioned earlier in this decision.  They also cant fairly add the exclusions that Im 
asking it to remove at a later date when Miss Hs policy terms are renewed,  as this is a 
lifetime policy  not an annual one.
I invited Miss H and Red Sands to give me any more evidence  and information  they wanted  
me to consider before issuing my final decision. Red Sands didnt say whether or not they 
accepted the provisional decision. Miss H didnt accept it.  
She said in summary:
She was told by the first vet her puppy  was seen  by, that there  was no issues with his 
leg and it was normal for his paw to turn out slightly due to his breed and if any 
treatment was required this should be done  when  he was fully grown;
Ref: DRN46958824She was initially told the puppy was suffering from the congenital condition,  Angular 
Limb Deformity   but this was later misdiagnosed;
It was only after being referred  to a consultant  vet at a different surgery that x-rays 
were taken  and the puppy was diagnosed as having  a growth  plate injury  - which 
ideally wouldve been treated before he was fully grown;
Shed  always had pet insurance since owning the puppy - even though  she has 
changed insurance company, so the policy wasnt taken out just to pay for this 
treatment;
She is aware the policy  would only pay part of the vets bill, but it would  contribute  
towards the loan she had to take out to pay for the treatment. As this has caused  her 
financial difficulty and had a negative impact on her health. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken Miss Hs comments into account,  but Ive come to the same conclusion  to the one 
I reached in my provisional  decision.
The claim
Miss H feels she was given incorrect information by the vet she originally saw so she wasnt  
aware there  was an issue with her puppys leg  but I dont agree. As I mentioned  above, the 
issue here is whether  a condition had occurred before the policy  had been taken out and if 
Miss H was aware there  was something wrong which  could likely  lead to some investigation 
or treatment. And I think based on the evidence  Ive seen, Miss H was aware  that her puppy  
was suffering from some form of condition relating to his foot  regardless  of what the 
condition was called.  
Miss H argues she has always had insurance  for her puppy since  she got him so this policy 
couldnt have  been taken  out just for this condition. I do have some sympathy for Miss H 
here as she had a policy  with another insurer who she may have been able to pursue a 
claim for at the time. However, I think the policy wording is clear that pre-existing conditions 
(including accident, injury,  illness and clinical signs)  arent covered under this policy. And Im 
satisfied based  on the evidence available,  that Miss Hs puppy was suffering  from a pre-
existing condition - which  shed discussed with a veterinary practice both before shed taken 
out the Red Sands policy, and again within  the first 14 days of the policy  commencement  
date. So I dont think Red Sands treated Miss H unfairly by declining  her claim under the pre-
existing condition policy exclusion.
I recognise Miss H has told us about  the impact this situation has had on her health, but I 
have to consider  whether Red Sands acted in a reasonable  way towards her. I acknowledge 
Miss H feels shes  been caused  additional stress  because her claim was declined.  And I 
realise this will be disappointing  for her as its not the outcome she was hoping for. But 
based on everything Ive seen,  I dont agree Red Sands should pay her claim.
Exclusions
As neither party responded to say they disagreed  with this part of my provisional  decision, I 
see no reason to reach a different conclusion. 
Ref: DRN46958825So this final decision confirms the findings and proposed  settlement as set out in my 
provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is I partially uphold this complaint. 
I direct  Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
remove the exclusion for cover on all claims with respect to the Right  Fore Leg in its 
entirety with effect from the start of the policy;
remove the exclusion for cover on all claims with respect to the Left Fore Leg in its 
entirety with effect from the start of the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October  2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4695882