K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr S says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him the PPI. 
Ill refer to the business as Barclays in my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has said that this policy was taken  out during a telephone call. But based on everything 
Ive seen I think its more  likely that it was taken out during a meeting.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he might not remember  this.
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mr Ss credit card application form. Section 9 
of this from had the heading Payment Protection  Insurance. This section had 
options to accept or decline  PPI. A tick has been placed next to the Yes option  
and Mr S has also signed separately in this section to take PPI. 
Although Mr S has said he was pressured  into taking PPI, Ive not seen evidence  to 
support what hes said. In addition, its a possibility  that Mr S is recalling another sale 
of PPI as hes referred to a telephone call. Theres nothing  on the application form 
that, in my opinion, could  reasonably be interpreted as pressure to take PPI.  
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Although Mr S has said hed only been employed  for 11 months at the time of sale,  
but he was still eligible  for the policy and given that there was a waiting period before 
any claim could be made  and no claims could be made within 90 days of the start 
date, I dont think that Mr S would  have had to wait very long to be able to claim.  
So I dont  think hes lost out and I still think that the recommendation  to take PPI was 
suitable.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
Ref: DRN40581622But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what hes said about not needing PPI 
because of his existing means.  But even  if Mr S was entitled  to the sick pay he says he was, 
the PPI policy  could have paid out for longer  than his sick pay would have lasted. 
Having the PPI policy would also mean that Mr S wouldnt have to sell his assets which  may 
not have a guaranteed  value and he may not have been easily  able to convert them into a 
means for making his repayments when needed. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) does have to pay back  to Mr S any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4058162