K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr H bought the policy in 2004 at the same  time as taking out a loan. He applied  for the loan 
and PPI policy in branch.  
The loan was repayable over a 48-month  term. The monthly loan repayment was £178.55 
with the PPI costing  an additional £22.94  making the total monthly repayment £201.49. The 
policy didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either  party with 30 days notice 
without penalty.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr H for disability, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  Mr Hs monthly loan repayment up to the end 
of the loan term in the event of a successful disability  claim  and for up to 12 months in the 
event of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr H was employed  as senior  operator.  He has told us he was entitled  to full pay 
for at least 12 months if he was off work sick, redundancy  pay worth at least 6 months  pay 
and death in service  benefit. Mr H also said he had savings of around  £1,000  and existing 
disability and unemployment cover. Mr H has said he had a medical  condition  at the time of 
the sale. 
The sick pay benefits Mr H has described  are unusually generous. We asked him to provide  
further evidence  to show he was entitled to as much  as he says and for as long, but he 
hasnt provided  anything.  Given  that, and that he gave his length  of service as 13 years  
when his credit agreement shows it was 7 years, I think it unlikely his entitlement was so 
generous. Mr H was also unable to provide evidence to show  he held disability and 
unemployment cover  at the time of the sale.
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2006. 
Mr Hs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Hs representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr H wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Hs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN41485972claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr H about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr H and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs complaint
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN41485973The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Hs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Santander gave Mr H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr H, 
I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr H suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr H and 
Santander, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN41485974did Mr H know  he had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Unfortunately, there are some gaps in the information thats still available  from the time of 
the sale. Santander hasnt been able to provide a copy  of Mr Hs signed  loan application  
form. But it has provided a sample  of the application it says he would have seen and signed, 
which asked the applicant to either accept or decline  PPI. From experience of how 
Santander generally sold these policies at the time, I believe its likely Mr H would have seen 
that application form or something very similar. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr H knew the policy was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Both Santander and Mr H agree that advice  was provided during this sale.  I think thats  likely  
to be the case.
This means  Santander  had to advise Mr H with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr H. It seems  Mr H cant remember  clearly what  happened and there  
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mr Hs 
financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mr H would have been caught  by the significant  exclusions and limitations  
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs.  For example, there  is 
nothing to suggest Santander considered whether Mr H had any pre-existing medical  
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr H given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Santander advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr H, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr H met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr H had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Hs ability  to continue to meet 
his loan repayments would have been  put under strain if he was not working for an 
extended period  of time  even  allowing for the redundancy  benefits and sick pay he 
says he would have  been entitled to. The disability and unemployment elements of 
the PPI worked  differently to Mr Hs death in service cover,  which would have paid a 
lump sum benefit on his death as opposed to a monthly benefit. As Ive said,  he 
hasnt provided  evidence to show he already held disability and unemployment 
cover.
Ref: DRN41485975-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr H.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr H. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Hs employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  
for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mr H has told us about 
his peptic ulceration but that arose around eight years before the sale. He says he 
only missed the odd day of work because of it. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems. 
 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr H sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what 
Santander was recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr H was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr H was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability) and of the cost and benefit. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr H would have taken out the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was for and because the monthly premium and benefit 
was set out in the credit  agreement he signed.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr H agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr H Im not persuaded Santander 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mr H. Im not persuaded Santander gave Mr H all of the information 
he needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Hs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Hs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Hs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr H about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Ref: DRN41485976Im not persuaded by Mr Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr H has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
What effect did Santanders shortcomings have on Mr H? To what extent did Mr H 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr H. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr H 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr H 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Santander  done things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr H, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr H has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Santander had explained things 
properly, Mr H would have acted  differently,  or whether he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.
Mr H says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr H had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Santander advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his loan payments in the event he was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Hs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr H was given about the cost and benefit 
was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policy, such as limitations  and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr H thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN41485977The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr H had on the start 
date of the policy or was treated for or advised about in the 12 months  before the 
start date of the policy unless  hed been  symptom-free and hadnt consulted  a doctor 
or received treatment  for the condition in the 24 months before claiming; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr H 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr H be unable  to 
work at his normal occupation or any employment which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr H pause for thought   and may well have  caused  him to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr H from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to him should 
the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr H says he had a medical  condition  
some time before the policy was taken out and the policy wouldnt have provided cover had 
he needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think  better information about this 
exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. 
I say this because  Mr Hs peptic ulceration arose several years  before he took the policy  out. 
Given the relatively conservative treatment he received for it and that it only caused him the 
odd day off work, I dont  believe the condition was a significant factor by the time of the sale.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mr H would have been caught by any of the 
other significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out. 
If Mr H had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any employment which in the insurers  view he might reasonably  become qualified  for, it 
might have played into his thinking  about what he would have done. And I accept it may 
have given him pause for thought  although its possible he may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mr H was unable (through disability) to carry on his own occupation 
the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr H would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  were  Mr H made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr H 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Hs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN41485978That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr H would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr H 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr H in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr H compensation, as that would put him 
in a better position  than he would have been in if everything had happened as it should  have  
done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Hs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Santander  had been in breach  of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr H in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN41485979Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2021.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4148597