K821x#15Mr C is unhappy that Honeycomb Finance Limited (Honeycomb) applied an interest  charge
when he paid off his loan early. In summary,  he says this is a breach of contract and he 
shouldnt have to pay it. He is also unhappy  with the information which  Honeycomb  gave  him 
about the charge.
Mrs Z complains on Mr Cs behalf.
background 
Mr C entered into a loan with Honeycomb  in 2016. In May of last year he contacted
Honeycomb for an early settlement figure to repay his loan in full. At the time he spoke  to an 
advisor on the phone about the figure and the interest charge for early settlement.
A regular payment was then taken,  so Mr C called back in June. He was told the revised 
repayment figure and the interest  charge that had been included in this amount. Mr C asked 
to be sent a copy of his loan agreement and asked the advisor  whether this interest charge  
was mentioned in his contract. The advisor said it should be. With this information, Mr C 
went and paid off the loan in full that day including 56 days  of interest for early  settlement.
Mr C says that once  he received his loan agreement he realised the 56 days of interest  was 
not mentioned  anywhere. And all the agreement says is that a customer  should contact 
Honeycomb should they wish to settle  their loan early.
Mr C doesnt think Honeycomb  are able to charge him the interest on early  settlement and 
says it is in breach  of contract  by doing  this. Mr C also thinks  if he was going to be charged 
interest on early settlement this should  have been  pointed out at the time he took out the 
loan.
Mr C is also unhappy with what the advisor  told him on the phone  about the information in 
his agreement. He said that had he known the 56 day charge wasnt  a written  term, he 
wouldve sought advice  and taken the time to ask questions. Instead he feels he was
deprived of his chance to make an informed decision.
Mr C complains that he wasnt sent the settlement figure in time,  and that he was told the
charge was in line with the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA), when its actually the 
Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations  2004. Hes also unhappy as he wasnt told 
he could pay at the end of the 28 days. If hed known he would  have earned  further  interest 
on the total settlement amount.
Honeycomb said the interest charge  was correctly applied in line with the CCA,  but 
apologised for a number of admin  errors. They didnt send Mr C his credit agreement  when 
requested, they delayed  his subject access request, they didnt acknowledge his complaint 
when it was first raised, and they didnt send him a closing statement or a settlement 
confirmation letter. For these errors  Honeycomb offered Mr C £100.
Our investigator was of the opinion  that while Honeycomb had added the correct amount of 
interest, they couldve provided  a better  service.  He felt the offer of £100 should  be 
increased to £150.  In relation to the interest  he felt Mr C wouldnt have done anything  
different had he known  it wasnt specifically set out in the agreement.
Mr C didnt agree, and Honeycomb  felt their offer of £100 was fair so the case was
passed to me for review.
Ref: DRN47458412I issued a provisional decision on 10 April 2019 and explained that I agreed  with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
Both parties  replied and accepted my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  decision, I see no reason to change my 
original findings  which Ive set out below.
The Consumer Credit  (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 apply here. These  say that when
a loan is repaid  early,  consumers are entitled to a rebate of interest. When  calculating  any 
settlement figure, a lender  will initially work  out the total interest payable as if the loan had 
remained outstanding  for its full term. That amount is then reduced by an interest rebate, to 
reflect that the loan is being repaid early.  The regulations  do allow  lenders  to defer  the date 
of the calculation by a sum equivalent to 58 days interest where the loan is for more than a 
year  which is the case here.
Mr C has said this information  wasnt made clear in his contract. Ive had a look at the 
contract and while  it doesnt  specifically say the number of days  interest the business  will 
charge, it does refer to the right to repay  early in accordance with section 94 of the CCA
1974. This part of the act explains that the customer has the right to repay the full amount 
early, subject to a rebate of charges for credit. Section 95 then goes on to say that the early  
settlement regulations (which I have mentioned above) explain how the rebate is calculated.  
So really,  the core information is not absent from the contract. And there  isnt anything that
says there  wont be a charge for early settlement.
For this reason I dont  think there  has been  a breach of contract as Mr C has indicated.  In
addition to this, even if it wasnt made clear exactly what the charge would be at the time of 
taking out the agreement, I havent  seen anything to suggest it would have changed Mr Cs 
mind about  going  ahead with the loan.
Putting this point to one side, I know a significant  part of Mr Cs complaint is that he feels  he 
was misled by what he was told on the phone by Honeycomb. Mr C has explained that had 
he known the specific interest information  wasnt set out in his loan agreement, he wouldnt 
have gone and paid the full amount on that day. He said he wouldve done something  
different. He also said he was under the impression that only 28 days  interest would be 
charged.
I have listened to the phone calls Mr C had with Honeycomb. During the second call, the 
advisor said the interest would be calculated at one month and 28 days.  Mr C also mentions 
and refers to 56 days twice during the call. So Im not satisfied he was misled to think  that he 
would be charged  28 days  of interest  instead.
Ref: DRN47458413However, it does sound like Mr C was possibly led to believe the 56 days  would be 
specifically referred to in the contract, when in fact they werent. But the advisor wasnt 
definite about this. I agree  it would have  been better customer service  for him to go into
more detail about the actual wording of the agreement, but this wouldnt have changed  what
Mr C owed if he wanted to pay off his agreement early.
Because of this, while I agree the call led to some confusion about whether the charge was 
specified in the contract,  I dont think Mr C would have acted any differently had the advisor
been more specific.
Mr C said he wouldve  asked more questions and sought advice  had he known the contract
didnt provide the specific details mentioned above. He said he may have  paid the loan off 
that day, or he may have  waited. However I have taken into account that before deciding  to 
pay it off Mr C did know the correct settlement figure and the fact there  was going to be a 
charge of 56 days interest included. I dont see how Mr C was misled about the terms of the 
early settlement. To me, the confusion  was more about the wording of the contract. And had 
this been clarified  at the time I think Mr C would like have acted in the same way, because 
this other  information  didnt impact what he already knew about the cost of the early 
settlement.
Mr C has also said he wasnt told he could pay at the end of the 28 days. But Ive seen a 
letter dated  16 May to Mr C which states:
This quotation  was prepared on 16th May 2018 and is valid up to and including  13th June
2018 and has been calculated  in accordance  with the Consumer Credit  (Early Settlement) 
Regulations 2004.
So Im satisfied Mr C was made aware  he could pay at any point up until the 28 days  had
expired.
Taking everything into account,  Im of the opinion that Honeycomb has treated Mr C fairly
regarding the early repayment of his loan.  I know theyve agreed their customer service 
should have been better,  and I agree. They shouldve acknowledged Mr Cs complaint, sent 
him his credit agreement  and settlement  confirmation letter  sooner, and the advisor  couldve  
given clearer information over the phone.
For these reasons I feel the increased amount of £150 recommended  by our investigator is
fair and reasonable, and reflects the inconvenience  and stress  caused to Mr C.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Honeycomb Finance Limited should pay 
Mr C £150. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Danielle Padden
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN47458414
Ref: DRN4745841