K821x#15Complaint
Mrs W says Abana Unipessoal Lda (Abana) gave her unsuitable  advice about  switching her 
personal pension  funds into a Self-invested Personal Pension with unregulated investments, 
which caused her to suffer a loss.
background
Mrs W and her husband were re-mortgaging in 2013  and during the process it was 
recommended they talk to an adviser  about  their pension arrangements.
Mrs and Mr W subsequently met Mr F2 in the spring  of 2014 to discuss their pension 
provisions, and he arranged for them to meet Mr F who gave them advice about Self-
invested Personal Pensions (SIPPs) and investment matters. Both individuals  represented 
themselves as working on behalf of Abana.
Although meetings between Mrs and Mr W and the advisers took place at the same time, 
and the documentation was completed  together, my decision will focus  on Mrs Ws pension  
arrangements. A separate complaint  has been set-up to address Mr Ws situation.
Mrs W had four personal pension plans,  two with Aviva Life and two with Scottish Widows.  
Shed started making contributions to these when  she was 19. The funds were  built up over 
a decade of her early  working life with different companies. Her pensions were  worth about 
£22,500.
Over the course of several  meetings  Mrs W was persuaded to switch her personal  pension 
provisions to a SIPP  with Avalon Investment Services Limited (Avalon). Investments were 
made via a bond with a business  called ePortfolio Solutions in two unregulated funds. These 
were called the Brighton SPC - Kijani Commodity Fund (Kijani);  and the Swiss  Asset  Micro 
Assist Inc Fund (SAMAIF).
Unfortunately, in July 2015 Mrs W was informed by Avalon that one of her funds had been 
suspended and that requests from customers for redemption of other funds within  the same 
portfolio were on hold while the platform administrator was trying resolve the issue  with the 
Kijani fund. She was facing substantial losses.
I understand the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  became  involved with Abana when it 
was made  aware  the firm may have  been  operating in the UK outside  of its permissions. At 
the relevant time, Abana was an EEA authorised firm and passported into the UK under the 
insurance mediation directive (IMD). However,  it appeared  to be providing services  in the 
UK, namely  giving advice  and making  arrangements in relation to pensions, without the 
required top-up  permissions it required from the FCA.
Abana has told us the FCA directed that an independent third party  should  review the advice 
the firm had given  UK consumers to determine whether it had been suitable, and if not, to 
assess any detriment. Abana has said that a consultancy service specialising  in regulatory 
compliance was appointed  to carry out this review.
Ref: DRN49005222Mrs W was asked by the specialist consultancy to complete  a questionnaire related to the 
switch of her personal pensions in October 2015. It wrote to her on 2 February 2016 with its 
conclusions. It said the advice shed been  given by Mr F had been  unsuitable.  And on 2 
August 2016 it set out how Mrs W should  be put back into the position  shed have been in 
had the switch not taken place.
Although I note Mrs W wanted a small adjustment to the redress proposed, this doesnt  
appear to have been at the heart of the lack of substantive progress in her receiving  the 
compensation.
Mrs W brought her complaint to this Service in September 2017. She had various concerns 
about what had happened. She said she had been given poor advice, the investments made 
through her SIPP were  inappropriate  and she wanted redress  based on the offer shed 
received in August 2016.
Initially, Abana confirmed  Mrs W had accepted the offer of redress detailed in the review  
carried out by the regulatory compliance consultancy. It said the matter was being  dealt with 
by its professional indemnity insurer. But later it changed its position and argued  it wasnt  
responsible for the advice shed received, so it wouldnt pay her compensation.
Abana submits  that the individuals  involved in this transaction with Mrs W werent  its 
appointed representatives (ARs), or its agents. It says the people  responsible  had entered 
into business arrangements  with Avalon without  its approval. So Abana  says its not 
responsible for the acts or omissions in this case and challenged our jurisdiction to consider  
Mrs Ws complaint  against it.
The investigator concluded that we could look into Mrs Ws complaint. And after considering 
the merits of the case he went  on to uphold it. Abana disagreed and so this case has been  
passed to me to consider.  Before moving on, Ill deal with a few of the matters  raised by 
Abana in responding  to this Service.
Abana has said Avalon, as the SIPP provider, was regulated and allegedly  accepted 
business introductions from an unregulated party and instructions to buy unregulated 
investments. It says Avalon had a responsibility to carry  out due diligence.
Further, Abana suggests the problems identified in Mrs Ws case also rest at the door of 
another SIPP provider which it says had a relationship with Mr F. It also cites a fund 
management company  as having  responsibility. And it goes on to question  actions  taken by 
the FCA in 2015 which  it says couldve had a material impact on the losses Mrs W and 
others suffered.
What Abana  asserts may or may not be the case in relation to other regulated firms  and 
individuals. But Im not considering a complaint against those parties  here. Mrs W has 
brought her complaint  against Abana and thats what  I need to address.
Abana has also said that in a meeting it held with another SIPP provider and Mr F in May 
2013, it was told some SIPP products were insurance based and therefore compliant under 
IMD permissions. Its not clear to me if Abana is saying it was misled by other  parties into 
thinking it could  carry on the activities that are the subject  of this complaint. Whatever the 
case, as a regulated firm its responsible  for its own regulatory compliance  and its own acts 
and omissions.
Ref: DRN49005223Abana hasnt  provided much information and evidence from the time of the events 
complained about.  But it has offered arguments in support of its position at various  points 
over the past few years. Ive not provided a detailed response to all the arguments  it has 
posed. Thats deliberate; ours is an informal  service  for resolving disputes between  financial 
businesses and their customers. While I have taken account and considered all Abanas 
submissions, Ive concentrated my findings  on what I think  is relevant and at the heart of this 
complaint.
So, Ill now turn to whether this Service has jurisdiction in this case.
my findings
the parties involved in this case
Before I decide  whether  this Service has jurisdiction to consider Mrs Ws complaint against  
Abana, I thought it would be helpful  to set out some of what  we know about  the parties who 
may have  been  involved  in the transaction leading to this complaint.
There were several entities and individuals who could potentially  have been  involved, and 
the relationships  between  them arent entirely  clear. Some  information is missing. Some 
firms no longer exist as a going concern. So, in this regard, and given the passage  of time, 
the case is difficult to get to the bottom  of.
However, weve been provided  with some helpful  documents by the organisation which took 
on the administration of Mrs Ws SIPP scheme.  And these documents  have  been  used to 
help us build  a picture of the key relationships  between the various parties.
Abana Unipessoal Lda
Abana is a Portuguese advisory  firm that, at the relevant time, passported into the UK under 
the IMD on a branch passport. So, at the relevant  time,  it was an EEA authorised firm.
Abanas business model appears to have  involved generating fees from advisors conducting 
activities in the UK. It has previously been  attached to several firms and individuals (see tab 
Appointed representatives / tied agents  / PSD or EMD agents under Abanas entry on the 
Financial Services Register (the Register)).
Mr F
Mr F is a central figure in this complaint. He met with Mrs W and advised her to switch her 
pension pot to a SIPP with Avalon (and to invest in the unregulated Kijani  and SAMAIF 
funds). It appears he also made arrangements for this to happen. One of the matters I will 
need to establish is whether in conducting these activities, Mr F was acting on behalf of 
Abana (either as its AR or its agent).
Mr F isnt listed on the FCA register as an AR of Abana. However, this isnt a requirement 
under section 39(3) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (FSMA),  so its not 
determinative of whether  or not he was acting as Abanas AR. I will examine the relationship 
between Abana and Mr F in more detail below.
Ref: DRN49005224New Beginnings  (Financial Solutions)  Limited (New Beginnings)
New Beginnings  was listed on the FCA register as an AR of Abana  from 11 March  2014 until 
6 February 2015.  Mr F was a minority shareholder  of this firm.
We have been  provided with a copy of the AR agreement between  Abana and New 
Beginnings which is dated 7 March 2014. The recitals of the agreement set out the following:
WHEREAS:
(1)The Company  [Abana]  is in the business  of international  wealth  management,  life 
assurance  and general  insurance  mediation  and is authorised  and regulated  by the 
lnstituto  de Seguros  de Portugal  ("ISP")  with registration  number  412378472.  The 
Company  has established  a branch  in England  with company  registration  FC031241  
with limited  regulation  by the Financial  Conduct  Authority  ("FCA")  number  597069  
and authorised  by the DGSFP  In Spain.
(2)The Company  hereby  appoints  the AR [New Beginnings] as its appointed  
representative,  subject  to the terms  of this agreement  whereby  the Company  
shall  authorise  and the AR shall  conduct  the Activities  defined  herein.
The definition section  of the agreement sets out:
"Activities"  means  the activities  for which  the Company  is authorised,  as agreed  
between  the parties  as detailed  in the Schedule  hereto  (as amended  from time to time);
"AR"  means  the AR (as set out above)  and any employee,  officer  or agent  or any 
person  or persons  acting  in conjunction  with or appointed  by or under  the control  of the 
AR and any person  or persons  connected  with the AR
We were not provided with a copy of the Schedule  referred to in the agreement. 
[Mr F] Associates
[Mr F] Associates isnt a legal entity or company in its own right. It appears to be a trading 
name Mr F began using for activities he was carrying out from a certain  point in time.
At the end of May 2014, Mr F told Avalon that he was in the process of getting  his own FCA 
authorisation (we understand he had previously been submitting business to Avalon using 
Abanas authorisation number). He made an application for new terms of business  and this 
was acknowledged  by Avalon, which noted internally that he was leaving Abana.
In June 2014 Mr F and Avalon were  trying to finalise the arrangements for Mr F to be 
submitting business  to them on his own account. For example, the parties  discussed  
ensuring appropriate letters of authority for Mr Fs clients were in place and were in the 
process of agreeing when payments to his new  agency would be effective from.
Mr Fs FCA authorisation hadnt  been received by July 2014, so he agreed with Avalon  that 
in the interim, business would be conducted through New Beginnings, with [Mr F] Associates 
acting as part of that network.
Ref: DRN49005225Mr F2
Mr F2 was the advisor who first met with Mrs W and gave  her advice about her pension  
arrangements. He signed the SIPP and ePortfolio  Solutions applications. Like Mr F, he was 
also a minority shareholder of New Beginnings. Given testimony weve  had from Mr and Mrs 
W, it seems  likely Mr F2 had a role working for [Mr F] Associates during 2014. MrF2 didnt 
have his own FCA authorisation.
Avalon Investment Services  Limited
Avalon was a UK based SIPP provider  and administrator,  regulated  by the FCA. Amongst 
other activities, it was authorised to arrange deals  in investments and to establish,  operate  
and wind up a pension  scheme. Mrs W is unhappy  about the SIPP arrangements,  including  
the unregulated  investments it facilitated.
Avalon was placed into administration  in February 2016 and was dissolved in August 2018. I 
understand the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) is currently  considering 
claims against the firm (see https://www.fscs.org.uk/failed-firms/avalon/).
can our Service consider  Mrs Ws complaint against  Abana?
the jurisdiction of the ombudsman service 
The ombudsman service  can consider a complaint under  our compulsory jurisdiction if it 
relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more  listed activities,  
including regulated activities (DISP 2.3.1 R). A firm includes an incoming EEA firm. Abana  
was, at the relevant time, an incoming EEA firm.
DISP 2.3.3 G provides  further guidance on what acts or omissions can be considered as a 
complaint (bolding  is my emphasis) and sets out that:
 complaints about  acts or omissions  include those in respect  of activities for which the firm 
 is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which  
the firm  has accepted responsibility).
So, there are two questions to be determined before I can decide whether  this complaint can 
be considered  under  the compulsory jurisdiction  of this service:
1.Were the acts about which Mrs W complains  done in the carrying on of a regulated 
activity?
2.Was the principal firm, Abana, responsible  for those acts?
were the acts Mrs W complained about done in carrying on a regulated  activity?
Mrs W has complained about Abanas role in her receiving unsuitable pension and 
investment advice. And the subsequent arrangements made on her behalf to switch  her 
personal pensions  into a SIPP with Avalon and make investments in the unregulated Kijani 
and SAMAIF funds. Mrs W says she hasnt been compensated despite a regulatory 
compliance consultancy  previously finding that the advice shed received from Mr F had 
been unsuitable and that Abana should  put things right.
Ref: DRN49005226Section 22 of FSMA defines "regulated  activities"  as follows:
(1) An activity  is a regulated activity for the  purposes  of this Act if  it is an activity  of a specified kind 
which is carried  on by way of business and
(a) relates to an investment of a specified  kind;
(4) Investment  includes  any asset, right  or interest.
(5) Specified means specified  in an order made  by the Treasury.
The relevant  Treasury order is the Financial Services  and Markets  Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). Article  4 provides:
"4.  Specified  activities:  general
(1) The following provisions of this Part specify kinds  of activity for the purposes of section 
22(1) of the Act (and accordingly any activity of one of those  kinds, which is carried on by way 
of business and relates to an investment  of a kind specified by any provision  of Part III and 
applicable to that activity, is regulated activity for the purposes of the Act)."
Article 82 of the RAO provides that rights under a personal pension scheme are a specified 
investment. A SIPP is a personal pension scheme.  So, giving advice about a SIPP is a 
regulated activity.
Mrs W wanted advice about  her personal pension plans.  She was put in touch with Mr F2 
and Mr F. Both held themselves out as working for Abana. Weve  not been provided with a 
fact find, risk appetite assessment, suitability report or recommendation letter  all we have 
is the testimony from Mrs W about what Mr F told her when they met at her home.
Like the investigator, Ive no reason to doubt  Mrs W when she says Mr F gave her advice 
about establishing the SIPP and making the investments. Its highly unlikely she wouldve 
embarked on a complicated investment strategy using a significant  element her pension  
provisions without this being  recommended to her.
Im satisfied that Mr F provided advice to Mrs W which led to her switching out of her 
personal pension  plans and investing  in a SIPP with Avalon.  She says he told her that 
because the unregulated investments were  in commodities these were low risk and that they 
would deliver  a good return.
In addition, under Article  25(1) RAO,  making  arrangements for another person to buy and 
sell a specified investment is a regulated  activity.  And Article 25(2) RAO says making 
arrangements with a view to a person  who participates in the arrangements  for buying and 
selling these types of investments is also a regulated  activity.
The FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) says the following about Article 25(1):
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed at arrangements  
that would  have the direct effect  that a particular transaction is concluded (that is, 
arrangements that bring it about).
It then says the following about  Article  25(2):
Ref: DRN49005227The activity of making arrangements  with a view to transactions in investments  is concerned  
with arrangements of an ongoing nature whose purpose is to facilitate the entering into of 
transactions by other parties. This activity has a potentially broad scope and typically applies 
in one of two scenarios. These  are where a person  provides  arrangements of some  kind:
(1) to enable or assist  investors to deal with or through a particular firm (such  as the 
arrangements made by introducers); or
(2) to facilitate the entering into of transactions directly by the parties (such as multilateral 
trading facilities of any kind exchanges, clearing  houses and service companies (for 
example, persons who provide communication  facilities for the routing of orders or the 
negotiation of transactions)).
Mr Fs details were  included on Mrs Ws ePortfolio Solutions application. And both this and 
her SIPP application  had Abanas details  on. Avalon dealt with him as the key contact in this 
transaction, for example  in investment matters. Mr F led it to believe that he was introducing 
business with Abanas authority.
PERG 12.3 makes it clear that the circumstances in which rights under  a personal pension  
scheme may be bought or sold include  when  the member first joins the scheme and 
acquires all the rights that the scheme  provides to its members (since  he has bought  those 
rights). 
Im satisfied that this constitutes the regulated activity of arranging  the pension  scheme  with 
Avalon. And, Im satisfied that the actions of Mr F constitute making arrangements for 
another person to buy and sell a specified investment under Article  25(1)  of the RAO.
Abana says its taken  advice about the regulations. It asserts  that it can rely on certain  
exclusions in the RAO  (which, if applicable,  would bring the certain activities outside the 
scope of Article  25). For example, it says that the exclusion at Article  29 applies because  Mr 
F was an unauthorised  arranger.
Even if I was to accept  Abanas point about  Mr Fs status, for the exclusion at article 29 to 
apply, its necessary that, in return for making  the arrangements,  Mr F didnt receive from 
any person - other  than Mrs W  payment or other reward arising out of their making the 
arrangements. 
In a recent  submission, Abana said Mr F received payment at the clients  request, direct from 
the assets of the Trust overseeing the pension fund.  It also said this wasnt commission.  But 
I think the actual  arrangement was supposed to work along  the lines set out in the AR 
agreement between Mr F and Abana. For example, at paragraphs 5 of that document  it says
The Company will pay the AR 100%  of the Commission  to which  the AR becomes entitled  
as a result  of the Activities. 
The agreement goes  on to make further provision  for its control and adjustment  of payments 
made. The commission/introducer fees were  meant  to flow from the funds injected into the 
pension fund with Avalon,  from it to Abana and then to Mr F. So, the exclusion at article 29 
doesnt apply.
In its last submission Abana asked for evidence of the payments it received via Avalon in 
relation to the arrangement of certain SIPPs. It should have a full record  of all the payments 
it received in relation to Mr Fs activities. I can see it requested  some  of this information  on 
20 February 2017 when its Director emailed Avalon to say: 
Ref: DRN49005228We are missing all adviser fee statements except for the April 2014 payment of £10278.73  
[which included commission payments]. This information has been requested  by the FCA as 
evidence of the fees that were paid to Abana.  
Avalon responded attaching copies of the statements from March 2014 to September  2014 
saying it had no other statements showing payments made to Abana.  Ive no doubt payment 
matters were complicated by discussions ongoing from between  Mr F and Avalon about 
payment arrangements  from May 2014  and I refer to these later in this decision.
In any case, in relation to the arguments  around  article 29, as Ill set out later in this decision,  
Im satisfied Mr F was acting as an agent  of Abana. So, Abana is the authorised person 
here. And its arguments are not telling.
Abana also refers  to the exclusion set out at article 33 and says that an independent fund 
manager was appointed  to manage  the assets of the SIPP.  I disagree.  Ive seen no evidence  
that Mr F or Avalon were  introducing Mrs W to an appropriate party under this provision.
I can see in a recent submission Abana interprets  what Ive said here is that Ive seen no 
evidence of the involvement of Asset Management  International  (AMI). This was a non-
regulated fund management  organisation that is associated with e-Portfolio Solutions.
To clarify, I think  Mr F on behalf of Abana made the introduction to Avalon as an authorised 
person. But this wasnt for the purpose  for it to provide independent advice or the 
independent exercise of discretion in relation  to investments generally or in relation to any 
class of investments  to which  the arrangements relate. So, the exclusion at article  33 does 
not apply.
So, Im satisfied that this complaint involves regulated activities   giving advice on switching 
from personal pensions  to a SIPP with Avalon and investing  in unregulated funds and 
making arrangements to give effect to these  matters.
was Abana responsible for the acts and omissions of Mr F2 and/or Mr F?
The next thing  I must  consider is whether Abana is responsible for the acts and omissions  of 
Mr F2 and/or Mr F. As mentioned above,  the guidance at DISP  2.3.3G  says (bolding is my 
emphasis):
complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect  of activities  for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for 
which the firmhas  accepted responsibility)".
Appointed representatives
Section 39 FSMA sets out the following:
Exemption of appointed representatives.
(1) If a person (other than an authorised  person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person (his principal)  which  
(i) permits  or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed 
description, and 
Ref: DRN49005229(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  
his principal  has accepted responsibility  in writing, he is exempt from the general 
prohibition in relation to any regulated activity comprised in the carrying  on of that 
business for which his principal has accepted responsibility.

(2) In this Act appointed representative means
(a) a person who is exempt as a result of subsection (1)
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
(4) In determining whether  an authorised person has complied with
(a) a provision contained in or made under  this Act,  anything which  a relevant person has 
done or omitted as respects business for which  the authorised person  has accepted 
responsibility is to be treated as having been done or omitted by the authorised person.
(5) Relevant person  means a person  who at the material time is or was an appointed 
representative by virtue of being a party to a contract with the authorised person.
So, a firm is answerable  for complaints about  the acts or omissions of its AR in relation to 
the business it has accepted responsibility  for in writing. I therefore  need to determine 
whether Abana had accepted responsibility  - in writing - for the acts being complained about 
here i.e. the advice  (given by Mr F2 and Mr F) and the arrangements (facilitated by Mr F).
The law of agency  
As set out above, a firm may also be responsible  for the acts or omissions of its agents 
(DISP 2.3.3G). So in the alternative, I will need to consider whether either  Mr F2 or Mr F 
were acting as Abanas agents in relation to the acts complained about, and whether it is 
therefore responsible for Mrs Ws complaint on that basis.
Agency is where  one party  (the principal)  allows another  party (the agent) to act on its behalf 
in such a way that affects its legal relationship with third parties. Broadly speaking, there are 
two types of agency I will need to consider: (1) actual authority, either express or implied,  
and (2) apparent (also  called ostensible) authority. 
The textbook Bowstead & Reynolds on Agency (21st Ed) sets out the following about  actual 
authority [chapter 3, article 22]:
Actual authority
Actual authority  is the authority which the principal  has given the agent wholly or in part 
by means of words or writing (called here express  authority) or is regarded  by the law as 
having given him because  of the interpretation  put by the law on the relationship and 
dealings of the two parties.  Although founded in the principals assent, the conferral  of 
authority is judged objectively.
Diplock LJ said in in Freeman & Lockyer v Buckhurst Properties (Mangal)  Ltd (1964) 2 QB 
480 [at paragraph 502]:
Ref: DRN490052210An actual authority  is a legal relationship between principal  and agent  created by a 
consensual agreement  to which they alone are parties. Its scope is to be ascertained  by 
applying ordinary principles of construction of contracts, including  any proper implications 
from the express words  used, the usages  of the trade, or the course of business  between 
the parties. To this agreement the contractor is a stranger: he may be totally  ignorant of 
the existence of any authority on the part of the agent. Nevertheless, if the agent does 
enter into a contract  pursuant  to the actual  authority, it does create  contractual rights and 
liabilities between the principal and the contractor.
So, actual authority is a legal  relationship between the principal  and agent  created by an 
agreement to which they alone  are parties.  It may be express, for example a written  contract  
or oral agreement.  Or it can be implied , where  the authority can be concluded from the 
conduct of the parties or the circumstances of the case  that consent has been given for 
certain acts to be carried out by the agent  on behalf  of the principal.
And Bowstead & Reynolds sets out the following about apparent authority [chapter 8, article  
72]:
Apparent (or Ostensible) Authority
Where a person,  by words or conduct, represents or permits  it to be represented  that 
another person has authority to act on his behalf, he is bound  by the acts of that other 
person with respect to anyone dealing with him as an agent on the faith of any such  
representation, to the same extent as if such other person had the authority that he was 
represented to have, even though he had no such actual authority. 
For apparent authority  to operate, there must  be a representation by the principal that the 
agent has its authority  to act. As Diplock  LJ said in in Freeman & Lockyer  v Buckhurst 
Properties (Mangal)  Ltd (1964) 2 QB 480:
The representation which creates "apparent" authority  may take a variety of forms of 
which the commonest  is representation by conduct, that is, by permitting the agent to act 
in some way in the conduct of the principals business with other persons. By so doing  the 
principal represents  to anyone who becomes aware that the agent is so acting that the 
agent has authority  to enter on behalf  of the principal into contracts with other persons of 
the kind which an agent so acting in the conduct of his principals business has usually  
"actual" authority to enter into.
So, the question  I must  consider here is whether Abana (as principal) allowed Mr F2 and/or 
Mr F (the agents) to act on its behalf  in relation to conducting the activities  Mrs W has 
complained about.  And whether this was done  with the express  or implied  agreement  of 
Abana (actual authority), or whether  the evidence shows Mrs W relied on a representation 
made by Abana (or that Abana allowed  to be made) that Mr F2 and/or Mr F had its authority 
to carry out the acts complained about.
The advice given  by Mr F2
Mrs W says she thought  Mr F2 was working  for Abana.  Shes given us a copy of the 
business card he left, which had Abanas details on it. Ive no reason to doubt her testimony 
- that Mr F2 held himself out as working  for Abana.
Ref: DRN490052211But I havent seen  any evidence that there was an AR agreement  or any other written 
agreement between Mr F2 and Abana. And he was never listed as an appointed 
representative of Abana  on the FCAs register. In fact, Ive seen no evidence of any direct 
relationship between Mr F2 and Abana.
Mr F2 was a shareholder of New Beginnings, which was an AR of Abana at the relevant 
time. So, there may have been a relationship between him and Abana  through the entity 
New Beginnings.  But theres no evidence he was acting on behalf of New Beginnings when 
dealing with Mrs W.
Mrs W didnt mention  New Beginnings when bringing her complaint to us. And weve not 
seen any communications  such as emails, business  cards or other promotional materials 
which relate to, or refer to New Beginnings being involved in this transaction.
Mr F2 being a shareholder in New Beginnings is not in itself enough to make  Abana 
responsible for his acts or omissions.  Being a shareholder in a firm does not prevent him 
from conducting activities on his own behalf or through  an entirely different entity.
So, after carefully  considering all the available  evidence, I conclude  the following:
-Theres no evidence of a contract between Abana and Mr F2 where Abana  permits or 
requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description and accepts 
responsibility for the same in writing.  Mr F2 is therefore not an AR of Abana  for the 
purposes of section 39(3) of FSMA;
-Theres no evidence that Mr F2 was acting  as an agent of Abana,  that is: (1) theres 
no evidence he had Abanas express  or implied authority to carry on any activities  on 
its behalf; and (2) theres no evidence that Abana represented to Mrs W that Mr F2 
had authority to act on its behalf  and that he relied on this representation. Ive thought  
carefully about the business cards and other  materials  Mr F2 showed Mrs W bearing 
Abanas name, but theres  no evidence that these documents were  provided by 
Abana for him to use.
-Theres not enough evidence for me to conclude  that Mr F2 was acting on behalf of 
New Beginnings  in this transaction and Abana can therefore not be held responsible  
for his acts because  of the AR agreement it had with New Beginnings at the relevant  
time.
As such,  we dont  have jurisdiction to consider a complaint against Abana  about the advice  
Mr F2 gave to Mrs W.
The advice given  and arrangements made by Mr F
The first thing I need to consider is whether Mr Fs dealings with Mrs W were  either (1) in his 
capacity as an AR or agent of Abana,  (2) in his own unregulated capacity  (i.e. as [Mr F] 
Associates, or (3) as part of the New Beginnings Network.
Im satisfied the advice  about and arrangements for the switch of Mrs Ws personal pension  
funds into a SIPP with Avalon and her application to ePortfolio Solutions  and effecting the 
investment in unregulated funds, were led by Mr F.
So, having  reviewed the evidence, I think advice  and arrangements in Mrs Ws introduction 
to Avalon were  conducted by Mr F on behalf of Abana because:
Ref: DRN490052212-The main advice  and arrangements  were  made  by Mr F up until mid-May 2014 and 
before he told Avalon  he was leaving Abana and provided  new terms of business at 
the end of that month. Prior to this we know hed been submitting business  to Avalon 
in his capacity  as an agent of Abana and using that firms authorisation details.
-Further to the above, where  Mrs Ws application  paperwork  required identification of 
the Financial  Adviser Firm Name, this was identified as Abana Lda.  
-Mrs Ws testimony is that Mr F told her and her husband he was working on behalf of 
Abana, and that he was responsible for arranging the SIPP  and investments therein.
Im satisfied Mr F advised  on and arranged  Mrs Ws SIPP with Avalon while he was still an 
agent of Abana (and not in his capacity  as an unregulated introducer when he was 
purporting to seek direct authorisation for [Mr F] Associates, or as part of the New 
Beginnings Network).
Abana says Mrs Ws applications for the Avalon SIPP  and ePortfolio  Solutions werent  
signed by Mr F. I can see they were  signed  by Mr F2, although  Mr Fs details were included 
on the ePortfolio Solutions  form. Ive thought carefully about  this this point. 
However, from what Ive seen in this and other  cases, Mr Fs role in these pension 
transactions for the relevant period has been  clear.  I dont think  the switch of Mrs Ws funds 
into the SIPP with Avalon  and investment in unregulated funds wouldve proceeded without 
him. I say this because  Avalon relied on the authority  it understood Mr F to have in these 
matters and it liaised with him as the key contact. Ill now develop this point.
did Abana accept responsibility for these arrangements under section 39(3)  FSMA?
I need to consider whether Mr F did in fact have authority  to act on behalf of Abana  in 
advising on and arranging Mr Ws SIPP with Avalon. Weve been  provided with an 
agreement between Abana  and Mr F which purports to be an appointed  representative  
agreement. This was provided by Abana  when we first became involved in these cases  in 
February 2016. The agreement states  the following:
THIS AGREEMENT is made this 1st day of May 2013
BETWEEN:
(1) ABANA Lda, a company registered in Portugal under  number 510205410("the Company"); 
and 
(2) [Mr F] (a person) of [specified address] ("the  Appointed Representative or AR").
WHEREAS:
(1) The Company is in the business of international  wealth management, life assurance and 
general insurance mediation and is authorised and regulated by the Institute de Seguros de 
Portugal ("ISP") with registration number 412378472. The Company is authorised to conduct 
business in the UK under  the regime  of free provision  of services within the European Union and 
has been authorised as such by ISP and the Financial Services Authority ("FSA")  with FSA 
registration number  597069.
(2) The Company hereby  appoints  the AR as its appointed representative, subject to the terms of 
this agreement  whereby the Company shall authorise and the AR shall conduct the various  
activities defined herein.
Ref: DRN490052213The definition section  of the agreement sets out:
"Activities"  means  the activities  agreed  and discussed  between  the parties  on execution  of 
this agreement,  as amended  from time to time,  which  the parties  may further  clarify  in an 
annex  hereto,  in default  of which  such  activities  shall  include  activities  defined  in FSA 
Regulations  as insurance  mediation  activities  and designated  life assurance  business;
"AR"  means  the AR (as set out above)  and any employee,  officer  or agent  or any person  or 
persons  acting  in conjunction  with or appointed  by or under  the control  of the AR and any 
person  or persons  connected  with the AR
We werent provided with a copy of the annex  referred to in the agreement,  but I note that in 
default the agreement shall include activities defined in FSA Regulations as insurance  
mediation activities and designated life assurance  business,  so Ive taken this into 
consideration.
The agreement is signed by both parties.
I agree  with the conclusion of the investigator here. The arrangements made  in connection 
with the SIPP and the underlying investments for Mrs W didnt constitute  insurance 
mediation activities or life assurance business  both of which relate to contracts of 
insurance. So, based on the evidence  Ive seen, Im satisfied the terms of the AR agreement 
didnt authorise  Mr F to conduct the arrangements that he carried out for her.
As such,  I conclude Abana  didnt  accept responsibility in writing  under the statutory regime  
of section 39 (3) FSMA for Mr F to arrange this transaction in his capacity  as an AR of 
Abana. And, so it isnt responsible for the acts of Mr F in this case  on the basis of section 39 
FSMA.
In its response to this Service, Abana suggests  the AR agreement  is a fraud. It noted the 
font on the final signed page was different from the rest of document.  It says the agreement  
weve relied on didnt  have Mr Fs original (wet) signature on it. It says the agreement wasnt 
enforceable because it didnt have  all the elements required to be a valid contract. And that 
because it was void, it wasnt submitted to the FCA register  and therefore  Mr F didnt 
become a regulated AR of Abana.
Ive carefully considered  Abanas submission which has some merit. For example, I can see 
that the last page of the agreement  which contains the signatures  of the parties - is in a 
different font from the rest of the document.  And as Ive already acknowledged Mr F was 
never listed on the FCA register as an AR of Abana.
However, Id note it was Abana  itself which provided the copy of the agreement  to us that it 
now asserts  is a fraud. In an email to this Service in 2016, responding to an enquiry about 
Mr Fs role with Abana,  it told us We have  not been able to locate a written agreement with 
[Mr F] as an individual. To this it attached the agreement. Later it explained it had meant it 
couldnt find a document  with his original  signature.
In a recent  submission, Abana says that when it spoke to one of our adjudicators  in 
February 2016, it made clear it could only locate a copy of a terminated AR agreement  but 
that he asked  for it to be forwarded anyway. 
Ref: DRN490052214Abana seems  to be acknowledging that there  was an agreement, but that it was terminated. 
In any case, I cant find a recording of the conversation between it and the adjudicator  in 
February 2016. But Ive seen  an exchange of several emails during  the month between 
Abanas Director and the adjudicator. At no point  was a terminated AR agreement  
mentioned. The exchange was focussed  on understanding  the nature of the relationship 
between it and Mr F.
I dont find Abanas arguments persuasive. When it first sent the AR agreement to us, it 
made no comment on its veracity or that what it was forwarding to us was a fraud. It didnt  
say the document hadnt been signed  by the parties. And it didnt tell us about  the 
agreement being  terminated or give any details about that. I wouldve expected Abana to 
have provided  this important commentary at the time, not four years later.
Im satisfied that the AR agreement  Ive seen is genuine and indicative of the relationship  
between Abana and Mr F. My conclusion is bolstered by what Abana  has told us about  its 
connection with him and the emails Ive seen between Abana and Mr F, and between Abana 
and Avalon which I set out in more detail  below.
Ill now go on to consider whether Abana may have given  Mr F authority to conduct  pensions 
business on its behalf under common law principles  of agency. This, as previously set out, is 
provided for under DISP  2.3.3 G.
was Abana responsible for the arrangements made by Mr F acting as its agent?
In analysing whether  there was an agency  arrangement I need  to understand what  was 
contracted between  the parties  in order to determine whether or not the relevant activities Mr 
F carried  out were within the scope of what had been authorised  and agreed to by Abana 
(i.e. had Abana given its actual authority for Mr F to carry  on those activities on its behalf?).
Leaving aside the AR agreement, there are several  other batches  of evidence that are 
important to my consideration here.
the pension activities  and arrangements Mr F was undertaking
Abanas told us that it knew  that Mr F was involved with pension  activities when it entered  a 
relationship with him. In 2016 it told us:
The relationship was that [Mr F] was a qualified IFA with a client  base that he had built up 
while he worked for [another advice firm] with [a SIPP operator] products. These clients  were 
transferred to Abana and he would  continue to assist those clients.  Abana obtained a [sic] 
agency with [the SIPP  operator] and provided  a home for his clients.  [Mr F] paid us £5880  
annually for this temporary  service as he said he was going  to be directly  authorised.  This 
agreement was superseded when  [Mr F] introduced New Beginnings Ltd who became an AR 
of Abana.
This demonstrates  that Abana expected Mr F to carry on pensions activities  and facilitated 
this by entering into an agency  agreement with a SIPP operator. Further, theres  a pattern of 
contemporaneous evidence which bolsters  my finding that Abana  knew Mr F had a 
significant and ongoing involvement in pension activities, acting on its behalf.
Ref: DRN490052215For example, Ive seen  a letter dated  November 2013 from Abana to one of Avalons 
competitor SIPP providers  relating to bank  details for the payment  of commission to each of 
Abanas appointed representative / sub-agency - Mr F is identified as one of these. Abana 
says this was provided in preparation for the fees generated by the existing SIPP client 
base.
Theres an email exchange in early March 2014  between the same parties, in which the 
SIPP provider requests an urgent meeting with Abana. It writes:
I need  to get our meeting in the diary. We have a number of questions to ask which  really  
are just for us to get a better understanding of Abana, where  you get your leads from and the 
way you implement your compliance  and oversight.  We now have a fair number of cases 
introduced by [Mr F] and we just need  to monitor the relationship.
And Abana responds:
We have tried to coordinate a meeting with Mr F but he is leaving  on two weeks holiday 
from Friday and is fully bookedwe understand [Mr Fs] clients are from referrals. All case  
fact finds and notes  are uploaded to our secure  client portal to be reviewed  by our 
compliance and available  to the client
Abana says this communication  related to business  Mr F transferred from other advisory  
firms. However,  I think the exchange  shows the SIPP provider understood the relationship  to 
be that Mr F was working on behalf  of Abana and it was attributing  the business Mr F was 
submitting to it as being business  done  on behalf  of Abana as principal.
Furthermore, I think it shows  Abana was aware of the significant  number of pension 
business introductions Mr F was making  on its behalf. And that it tried to give the SIPP  
provider assurances  about the records it was keeping for all the clients (fact finds and notes)  
and the compliance  arrangements  it had in place to check things were  being done correctly.
Interestingly, theres correspondence between Abana and Mr F in April 2014 about  the 
nature of the services he was providing.  Abana says this appears to be in relation to a 
suitability report of an existing transferred  SIPP. Its Director says this was a personal  email, 
and Mr F appears to want feedback because he mayve provided  similar  opinions  for Mr F 
when he worked  at a former company.
In the email Abanas Director tells Mr F (my emphasis):
Ive had compliance  read through the SL report and here are their comments re investment. 
I should add that we should tell the clients we are not regulated  to give advice on funds and 
they should seek further assistance if they do not want to do it themselves. Let me know  
what you suggest please?
This doesnt seem to me to be a personal exchange.  And I dont find Abanas explanation to 
be credible. I think the email is reflective of Abana giving  Mr F guidance on how he should  
be constructing the suitability reports for what were  effectively its clients,  following a review 
by its compliance team.  Its quite directive  in tone and suggestive of a principal / agent 
relationship.
The advice from Abanas compliance function to Mr F focusses on investment funds. There  
was no similar concern  expressed about the pension advice or arrangements Mr F was 
making. Otherwise, I wouldve expected this to have  been made clear as well.
Ref: DRN490052216I think taken together,  this package of evidence demonstrates the following:
-The written agreement between  Abana and Mr F shows that there  was a relationship 
between the parties under which they anticipated that Mr F would carry out certain  
activities on behalf of Abana.
-Unlike the requirements of section 39 FSMA,  Abana  and Mr F could agree in a more 
informal way that Mr F had authority to conduct  pensions business on behalf of 
Abana, such as through the dealings between the parties. Im satisfied  based  on the 
evidence that Abana  was aware  of, and consented  to, Mr F carrying  on these  
pension activities on its behalf  and that consensual agreement  to conduct these 
activities can be gleaned from the dealings between the parties.
-Mr F was not directly authorised by the FCA. The communications  between Abana 
and Mr F that I have set out above  show that Abana entered  into a relationship with 
Mr F so that he could continue to provide  advice  to clients on the basis of Abanas 
authorisation (they would become Abanas  clients  who Mr F would continue  to assist 
with). And it shows that Abana knew Mr F was providing advice to consumers to 
open SIPPs, in fact it entered into terms of business with a SIPP  operator  so that Mr 
F could provide  the same for clients.
So, Im satisfied that Mr F did have Abanas actual authority to undertake pension activities, 
including arranging SIPPs,  on its behalf. 
payments made by Avalon  for business  generated by Mr F
Avalon told us its records showed that commission payments for business  introduced  by Mr 
F before the end of May 2014  were  paid directly to Abana. Ive seen paperwork to this effect,  
with a charge  for Mrs Ws SIPP appearing on the May 2014 statement.  Abana is shown as 
the introducer and the total payment (which included  charges for multiple clients)  was due to 
it. But unfortunately, its not that straightforward.
I can also see that from April 2014  Mr F was liaising with Avalon to clarify what commission  
payments were being made  they appeared to be coming through as a lump  sum and he 
couldnt work out how the payments related to different clients. 
Mr F asked  Avalon for more information about  the transactions.  He says the payment side 
was done from Portugal (where the main Abana group is based), so it was important for him 
to get a better breakdown  of what the payments represented. Avalon appears  to have acted 
on his request to ensure he received a copy of future commission  statements  to his own 
business address.
Communications between  Mr F and Avalon continued through  May and June  2014  and 
increasingly became  about remuneration arrangements  following his planned establishment  
of [Mr F] Associates.  And then when this didnt work  out, there were  discussions about 
channelling payments to the New Beginnings network. It was agreed  that fees would go 
direct to him in future, subject to certain conditions being met.
The position  gets muddled for several  reasons.  Avalon started withholding  some  commission  
payments to Abana, giving  Mr F an opportunity  to get his clients to sign letters of authority 
(LOA) to transfer oversight of their SIPP affairs from Abana  to his new agency.
Ref: DRN490052217Its clear getting the LOAs in place was problematic. And this may shed light on Abanas 
testimony when it says it never received payments  from Avalon in respect of certain 
transactions. I think the following  email from Avalon to Mr F from September  2014  is 
instructive:
We are being chased by Abana to supply them  with details of adviser charges paid in the 
last quarter.  As you know we have  held back payments to them  pending receipt of LOA 
from you for 13 clients but we are now being put in a difficult  position with regards  to 
payment on these. Can I have your thoughts.  We will have  little choice other  than to make 
payment to them if we cant have the LOAs in the very near future.
Ive thought carefully about what all this means.  Consistent with what  Ive set-out elsewhere, 
I think this information  supports  my finding  that Mr F was acting on behalf of Abana until the 
end of May 2014,  even though he appears to be hatching plans to work  on his own account 
prior to this. I think  Abana was expecting payments to flow back  to it for this business, as it 
had done with other transactions,  and when it didnt it queried  the position  with Avalon.
Again, I think  this demonstrates  that Mr F was given actual authority to undertake pension 
activities on behalf of Abana as it expected to be paid for introductions that Mr F was making 
to Avalon.
the independent review  of pension transactions attributed to Abana 
Abana acknowledged the outcome of an independent review into the advice Mr F gave and 
the arrangements he made for the switch of Mrs Ws personal  pensions into the Avalon SIPP 
and therein the investment in unregulated  funds.  It made a claim on its professional  
indemnity insurance.  It appeared  to accept responsibility for the things Mr F had done wrong.
But Abana now says that its initial offer to pay Mrs W redress wasnt an admission that it had 
got something wrong. It says it felt under an obligation following the FCAs intervention.  It 
said the review work conducted by the regulatory compliance consultancy  was flawed. It 
makes various allegations, including that the review relied on incomplete  and false  
information provided by Avalon.
Ive thought about what Abana has said here.  I dont find its arguments  convincing. If the 
review work was fatally flawed, then Im surprised it made a claim to its insurers on that 
basis. And it hasnt provided  any evidence of its assertions.
Actually, from what Ive seen I think its more likely Abanas later retraction of the offer of 
redress had more to do with its professional indemnity insurer rejecting its claim to cover the 
compensation costs.  I note in December 2017  it wrote to the FCA in the following terms:
Since the FCA is of the opinion  thatour PI insurers,  will not be able to cover any redress  
by virtue of the fact that [Mr F] was acting outside the remit of regulated activity, the victims  
are thus left in the unfortunate and unfair position  of not being  able to receive any redress 
whatsoever.
Ensuring its agents were  only given authority to operate within the scope of its own 
permissions was Abanas responsibility. As Ive already  set out, it was aware of what 
activities Mr F was undertaking.  Even if it didnt realise what  he was doing would have the 
effect of nullifying its insurance cover  because the activities  fell outside the scope of Abanas 
permissions, it shouldve  realised this.
Ref: DRN490052218So, I think Abanas initial acceptance of the review process and the redress proposals is 
significant and is another  indication that it had in fact given Mr F authority to act on its behalf 
in arranging SIPPs, such as Mrs Ws.
Abanas website
Abanas website  around the time of the events  complained about appears to have shown  Mr 
F listed  as a pensions/financial adviser and part of The Abana  Team. It includes a photo  of 
an individual that purports to be him. We obtained  this information from an online resource.  
Mr Fs details remained  on the Abana website until at least December 2014.
Abana disputes these matters. For example, it says the historic website pages  referenced 
were draft. It says Mr Fs description is incomplete and this shows  he didnt make  it onto the 
Abana team. It told us the supposed  photo  of Mr F wasnt him.
Abanas argument here has some merit. Ive checked and the image that appeared on its 
web site wasnt Mr F. And I dont know whether Mr Fs details were  published  externally  or 
as Abana  suggests the pages were just draft.
However, in the context  of everything  else Ive seen, I find the fact the web pages exist at all 
is in itself significant and more likely than not reflective of a close association between  the 
parties. And it therefore bolsters the evidence that Mr F was acting with Abanas  actual  
authority in conducting pensions activities such as arranging SIPPs.  
Taking all these matters together with the other  information Ive already set-out in this 
decision, theres a weight  of evidence and argument here. And Im satisfied this 
demonstrates Mr F was acting as an agent  of Abana.
I think Abana was aware of, expected, facilitated,  guided and benefitted  from the activities  
Mr F was undertaking, including giving advice on and making arrangements  for SIPPs.  I 
think Mr F had its actual  authority to do this on its behalf. So, I think Abana is responsible for 
Mr Fs acts and omissions.
The arrangements  in this case involved more than just pensions  business   Mr F also gave 
advice on and made arrangements for the ePortfolio Solutions bond and unregulated 
investments. But, even if Abana didnt give its actual  authority for Mr F to conduct  these  
matters (and only intended  him to be carrying on pension business), theres well established 
case law that if theres  one act that was authorised by the principal, we may be able to look 
at other  acts linked to it.
In Martin v Britannia [1999]  EWHC 852 (Ch) (21 December 1999) and Tenetconnect 
Services Ltd v Financial Ombudsman  and another  [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin) (13 March  
2018), the courts held that advice couldnt be confined to one part of an overall  transaction 
and that acts can be intrinsically linked.  I agree  with the investigator  when he says this 
case is analogous.  The arrangement of the SIPP and the subsequent investments in 
unregulated funds were  so closely connected that they were  intrinsically linked   part of the 
same transaction.
So, I think Abana can be held responsible for the advice given and arrangements made 
concerning the switch  of Mrs Ws personal  pensions to her Avalon SIPP  and the investments 
in unregulated funds, which together ultimately resulted in the financial loss shes suffered.
Ref: DRN490052219my conclusions on jurisdiction
I conclude that this is a complaint that this Service can consider. In summary this is because: 
-Mrs Ws complaint  concerns both the advice about and the arrangements for the 
switch of her personal pension funds to the Avalon SIPP  and the investments made 
therein. So, its a complaint about  regulated activities.
-Im satisfied  that Mr F gave Mrs W advice about and made arrangements  for the 
switch of her personal pension funds to the Avalon SIPP  and the investments in the 
Kijani and SAMAIF  funds  as an agent with the actual authority of Abana. Im 
therefore satisfied  that Abana is responsible for his acts and omissions  in this regard.
considering the merits of Mrs Ws complaint 
As Im satisfied this Service has jurisdiction  to consider Mrs Ws complaint about Abana  in 
relation to the advice provided  and arrangements  made by Mr F, Ive gone on to consider all 
the available  evidence and arguments  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case.  And, after careful  consideration,  Im upholding her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The documentation  I have  from around the time of the events is incomplete. Abana  provided 
very little information about Mrs Ws case. For example, Ive not seen a fact find covering her 
circumstances, nor a record of her objectives for her pension arrangements. Theres  no 
document which captures Mrs Ws attitude  to risk. And I havent  seen a recommendations 
report.
Mrs W has helpfully provided us with various  documents, most of which relate to events as 
they unfolded after her personal  pensions had been switched into the Avalon SIPP. In 
addition, shes told us about what happened when she was given advice.  
For reasons I can understand, several of Abanas former customers  who have found 
themselves in a similar situation to Mrs W have formed an informal  group for communicating  
progress. Ive not seen anything that concerns me about this development.
Nevertheless, as I wouldve done in any event,  I generally give more  weight to testimony 
which is more contemporaneous  with the events complained about. Thats because it tends 
to give a more  accurate  account of events  given the effect of the passage of time and the 
potential for the benefit of hindsight to colour  matters.
Fortunately, weve been able to obtain  some relevant paperwork from other sources,  
including the firm which took over administration of Mrs Ws SIPP. As previously established, 
this has been  important in evidencing the role Mr F played on behalf  of Abana  in bringing 
about the switch of her pension.
While there s conflicting  information about  what happened in 2014 and many gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide,  on the balance of 
probabilities, whats  most  likely to have  happened.  
Ref: DRN490052220how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mr Ws case? 
The first thing I want to consider in relation to Mrs Ws complaint is the extensive regulation 
around transactions like those performed  by Mr F who Im satisfied was acting as Abanas  
agent. The FCA Handbook  contains  eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These  
include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence
-Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise  and control  its 
affairs responsibly and effectively,  with adequate risk management systems
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly
In British Bankers  Association v The Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011]  EWHC  999 
(Admin), Ouseley J said [at paragraph 162]:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever-present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied  with. The Specific rules  do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them.  They are but specific  applications  of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach  
a view on a case without  taking the Principles into account in deciding  what  would be fair 
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had been produced by the 
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory  duty without having regard to 
the sort of high-level principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated 
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about 
their relationship to specific rules.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They provide the overarching framework for regulation  and must always be 
complied with by regulated firms  like Abana. As such, I need  to have regard to them in 
deciding this case.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that we will look at when reaching a decision about whether the 
advice was suitable. In summary, the business must  obtain  the necessary information  
regarding: the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment  field relevant to the 
advice; their financial situation; and their investment  objectives.
Ref: DRN490052221When I consider a case where someone  has switched their personal pension,  I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants  or 
needs reasonable? And so, should  the adviser have recommended  the switch?
Each case is different,  but Id expect the switch to be in the consumers best interests to 
make the advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made 
between the old pension and the new one.
In 2009 the then Financial Services Authority published a checklist  for pension  switching that 
I think is still helpful today.  It highlighted four key issues it thought should be focussed  on:
-Charges - has the consumer has been switched  to a pension  that is more expensive 
than their existing one(s)  or a stakeholder  pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include  the loss of ongoing  contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits  early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs.  For 
example, in January 2013 it issued  an industry alert which said:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid unregulated 
investments
Financial advisers  using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate  out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated  elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
did Abana, through the acts and omissions of Mr F, adhere to the regulatory requirements  
placed on it in effecting the switch of Mrs Ws personal pension  plans into a SIPP?
In short,  I dont think Abana met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN490052222Mrs W had four modest personal  pension plans, two with Aviva Life and two with Scottish 
Widows. Shed started making contributions to these  when she was 19. The funds were built 
up over a decade of her early working  life with different companies. She didnt know what 
they were invested  in. The value  of the plans in 2014 was around £22,500.
Mrs W also had deferred membership of an occupational pension scheme built up over 13 
years - she retained this fund. By 2005  shed taken on a role in her husbands business and 
was no longer making any contributions  towards  a pension.
So, although  modest, the funds built up in Mrs Ws personal pension plans represented a 
significant element  of her overall provision.
Mrs W and her husband re-mortgaged  in 2013  and during the process an adviser was 
recommended to them to talk about  their pension arrangements.  They  met Mr F2 several 
times, and he introduced  them  to Mr F in 2014.
Mrs W and her husband were led to believe both men worked  for Abana. For example, they 
were given branded  business cards and paperwork to that effect. They also formed the 
impression Mr F was the senior responsible  person in the transaction.
Mrs W told us her objective  was to grow her pension pot. And she wanted  to be able to retire 
at 60  she was 50 at the time of the advice. She says she and her husband  had a low to 
medium risk appetite. They had no previous experience of investing.
Mrs W says that in their discussion with Mr F he mainly focussed on establishing  the SIPP 
and where monies  would best be invested.  He showed them investment returns  of certain 
funds over past 20 years. He characterised the commodity-based funds as high return and 
with a good track record.
Mrs W was persuaded to switch her pension funds to a Self-invested Personal Pension  
(SIPP) with Avalon  Investment Services Limited (Avalon). Investments were made via a 
bond with a business called ePortfolio  Solutions  into two unregulated funds  Kijani and 
SAMAIF.
Mr F, as Abanas agent, had to obtain information from Mrs W in order to understand 
essential facts  about  her. In order to advise her to switch her personal pension  pots into the 
Avalon SIPP  and invest in the unregulated  funds, Mr F had to believe that:
-The service or recommended transaction met Mrs Ws investment objectives 
(including her attitude to risk, the purpose of investing and how long she wanted  to 
invest for).
-Mrs W was able to financially withstand the investment risks.
-Mrs W had the necessary experience or knowledge  to understand the risks involved.
As mentioned already,  Ive not seen a fact find covering Mrs Ws circumstances, nor a 
record of her objectives for her pension arrangements. Theres no document which captures 
her attitude  to risk. I havent seen a recommendations report. And I havent seen a 
comparison of the performance,  costs and benefits of her then existing plans  with what was 
being proposed.
Ref: DRN490052223Abana hasnt  produced information to show Mr F followed proper  process, or if he did that 
this supported the subsequent transaction he advised and arranged. This is odd because  in 
March 2014 when it was communicating with another SIPP provider about the business Mr F 
was generating,  it provided some assurance that proper documents  were  on file and that its 
compliance function had oversight of what he was doing.
I think Mrs W was interested in building her pension pot. But Ive not seen anything  that 
shows her risk appetite  wouldve been  high. Her pension provision was modest, and her 
personal plans  represented a significant  proportion of this.
Mrs Ws pension  provisions were placed in the Kijani and SAMAIF funds, which  were  based 
overseas and unregulated. Unfortunately, by 2015  theyd been  suspended leaving her facing 
substantial losses.
Abana told us that following the intervention of the FCA a consultancy service  specialising in 
regulatory compliance was appointed to carry out a review of the suitability of certain 
pension advice and arrangements it had been associated with. This included Mrs Ws case.
I think its telling this specialist independent  third party concluded in February 2016 that the 
advice Mrs W had been given by Mr F had been unsuitable. And it later set out how Abana 
should put things right. As we know, it ultimately failed to act on the outcome of the review.
Further, Ive seen a communication  between Abana and Mr F from around the same time he 
was providing Mrs W with advice in April 2014, which  I think  is also relevant  here.  In this 
email exchange  Abana  provides feedback  to Mr F about his approach  to suitability reports.  
This had been  provided by its compliance function  and appears  to demonstrate Mr Fs 
practices were lacking, for example in relation to advice around the risk appetite  of clients.
Taking these matters together, Ive concluded  Mr F wasnt  acting with due skill, care or 
diligence when he effected Mrs Ws switch  of pension plans into her Avalon SIPP and the 
unregulated funds. He was in breach of Principle 2 and COBS 9.2.1R, and therefore so was 
Abana.
I find Mrs Ws testimony plausible and persuasive. And I think  its of note that Abana  has 
never made the case that the switch of her personal  pension plans into the Avalon SIPP and 
investments in unregulated funds was a suitable  outcome. 
Rather, Abanas response to this Service has largely  focussed on why it wasnt responsible 
for what had happened, and how it was the fault of others. Its largely failed to engage with 
the merits of this case, despite clear evidence  of the relationship it had with Mr F. I wont 
rehearse the arguments already made in my decision,  but Ive concluded  that Mr F was 
acting as an agent of Abana with its actual authority to deal in pensions and arrange SIPPs.
In permitting Mr F to conduct  pensions  business Abana wouldve known or at the very least 
shouldve known that such activity was outside  of its regulatory permissions which were 
restricted to insurance mediation  activities. It didnt  take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management  systems.  And 
this is a breach  of Principle 3.
Ref: DRN490052224Theres no evidence Mrs W was an experienced or sophisticated  investor.  As Ive set out, 
she didnt know how her personal pensions had been invested. And she says she was told 
the proposals being recommended were  low risk. She says she was ...a bit green. A small 
amount of care and due diligence wouldve exposed the switch  to the Avalon SIPP  as 
inappropriate.
Mr F gave  advice  and made  arrangements for the switch of Mrs Ws personal  pension plans 
into a SIPP,  which would  be dealing in unregulated  investments.  Mr Fs details were 
included on Mrs Ws ePortfolio Solutions  application.  And both this and her SIPP  application 
had Abanas details on as the authorised firm. Avalon dealt with Mr F as the key contact in 
this transaction.  Mr F led it to believe that he was introducing  business  with Abanas 
authority.
In doing all this, Mr F wouldve been aware  Mrs W was being exposed  to significant  risks in 
the investments  he was arranging. He wouldve known unregulated  funds  could be Illiquid, 
meaning Mrs W might have difficulty getting  access to her money.  The funds were highly 
specialised, out of the ordinary and reliant on third parties. And they were subject to 
valuation uncertainty.
Im satisfied that Mr F didnt  act honestly,  fairly and professionally, and in accordance with 
Mrs Ws best interests in relation to designated investment business he was carrying out. He 
breached Principle 6 and COBS 2.1.1R, and Abana is responsible for his acts and 
omissions.
So, to conclude I dont  think  the switch of Mrs Ws personal pension funds into the Avalon 
SIPP and the unregulated  investments with the Kijani and SAMAIF funds could sensibly be 
regarded as fair to her.
As such I think  Mr F, as Abanas agent,  failed to meet the regulatory requirements Ive set 
out when making  these  arrangements. So, taking all the circumstances of the case into 
account, its fair and reasonable  to uphold this complaint against Abana,  and for Abana  to 
put things right.
putting things right
Im upholding Mrs Ws case.  So, she needs to be returned to the position  she wouldve been 
in now - or as close to that as reasonably  possible  had it not been for the failures which  I 
hold Abana  responsible for.
If Abana had done everything it shouldve,  I dont think Mrs W wouldve switched her Aviva 
Life and Scottish Widows  funds into an Avalon SIPP, and so she wouldnt have  suffered  the 
financial loss shes experienced. I think its most likely she wouldve left her pensions where 
they were.
So, Abana needs to put things right in the following way:
1. Calculate the loss Mrs W has suffered as a result of making  the switch
Abana must  obtain the notional value of Mrs Ws previous pension plans with Aviva  Life and 
Scottish Widows, as at the date of calculation.  So, as if they hadnt been switched to the 
Avalon SIPP.
Ref: DRN490052225If there are difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation, then the FTSE UK Private Investors  
Income Total Return Index (and prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income 
Total Return Index) should be used as a reasonable proxy  for the type of return  that couldve 
been achieved  if Mrs Ws pension had remained  invested in her personal pension  plans.
Abana should then find the current value of Mrs Ws SIPP,  including  investments and any 
cash held. Concerning the valuation  here  the approach to be taken is set out in step 2.
My understanding is that Mrs W hasnt  taken any tax-free cash or drawdowns. But she has 
made additional contributions. So, the value Abana  obtains or the calculations Abana  makes 
must assume these  would still have occurred and on the same dates.
The adjusted, as appropriate,  like for like difference between the notional  value of Mrs Ws 
former pension plans and the current value of her SIPP will be her basic  financial loss that 
Abana needs to redress.
2. Pay a commercial  value to buy any investments which cannot currently  be redeemed
To close Mrs Ws SIPP and avoid ongoing fees, the investments need to be crystallised.  To 
do this Abana should ask the SIPP provider to determine an amount its willing to accept as 
a commercial value for the investments and Abana can then pay this to take ownership  of 
them.
If Abana is unwilling or unable to purchase  the investments,  the value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purposes  of the loss calculation.  In this instance Abana may ask Mrs W to 
provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP  may 
receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect  of any tax and 
charges on the amount she may receive from the investment and any eventual sums  she 
would be able to access from the SIPP.
Abana will need to meet  any costs in drawing up this undertaking.
3. Pay an amount into Mrs Ws SIPP so that the transfer value is increased by the loss 
calculated (resulting from 1 and 2) or pay her an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted  for 
tax 
If compensation is paid into Mrs Ws SIPP, payment should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available  tax relief, so that she is in the same  position as if shed stayed in her 
original Aviva Life and Scottish  Widows pension plans. 
If paying compensation into Mrs Ws SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and Abana takes on her investments, then it should pay 
her compensation as a cash sum. 
Because Mrs Ws SIPP wouldve been  used to buy a taxable income any compensation paid 
in cash should  be reduced to notionally  allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been due. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs Ws marginal rate of tax at 
retirement. 
Ref: DRN490052226For example, if Mrs W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional 
allowance would reduce the amount payable (after any allowance for tax-free cash),  
equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. So, if Mrs W is entitled to 25% tax free cash  from 
her fund, the notional  allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount of 
compensation.
4. SIPP  fees
If the investments arent removed from Mrs Ws SIPP, and it remains open after 
compensation has been paid, Abana should  pay her an amount equivalent to five years  of 
future fees.  This should  allow enough time for the issues with the investments to be dealt 
with, and for them to be removed  from the SIPP.
If, after five years, Abana wants to keep  the SIPP open, and to maintain  an undertaking for 
any future payments  under the investment, it must  agree  to pay any further future  SIPP fees.  
If Abana fails to pay the SIPP fees,  Mrs W should then have the option of trying  to cancel the 
investments to allow the plan to be closed.
5. Trouble and upset
I also think Mrs W has been caused  upset  as a result of Abanas actions. The sudden  loss of 
a substantial element  of her pension fund would have  come as a shock  to her and has 
clearly had a significant  impact.  In recognition of this it should pay her £500 for the trouble 
and upset shes experienced.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint. I require Abana  
Unipessoal Lda to pay compensation to her as Ive indicated in the section putting things 
right. It should pay the compensation within 28 days of Mrs Ws acceptance of my final 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4900522