K820x#14complaint
Mr D missed a number  of payments on his mortgage. Mr D says that this resulted from an 
error of the HSBC  UK Bank Plc computing system. Mr D would like HSBC to amend his 
credit file. 
background
Mr D has been a mortgage customer with HSBC for some time and says that he never 
missed a payment.  Mr Ds says that his direct  debit was cancelled  on 9 May 2018 so he 
missed a mortgage payment due for the month of June. As the direct debit remained 
cancelled the following  month, Mr D missed a payment for July also.  HSBC  reported that 
Mr D missed these  payments to the credit reference  agencies.
HSBC says that it sent Mr D a letter  on 10 May after the direct  debit  was cancelled asking 
him to reinstate  it but Mr D says that he didnt get the letter. HSBC  sent Mr D a second letter  
dated 2 July telling Mr D that he had missed two payments  on his mortgage.  HSBC wrote a 
further letter on 4 July asking Mr D to contact it about the missing  payments. Mr D rectified 
the account by making the two payments  on 10 July.
Mr D says that he didnt  authorise the cancellation of the direct debit. On the same  day Mr D 
cancelled another direct  debit for a car finance agreement. Mr D believes that the direct debit 
was cancelled as a result of a technical or operational error on behalf of HSBC  and because 
of HSBCs error his credit  file should be amended to reflect  this. Mr D says that he had 
sufficient money in the account to meet the payments and no reason to cancel  the direct 
debit.
Our investigators view
Our investigator said that the information  from HSBC only indicated that the cancellation of 
the direct  debit occurred  not why. He noted  that Mr D had more than enough in his account 
to meet  the payments and there  was no evidence of Mr D being under financial pressure that 
would lead him to cancel  the direct debit.  Our investigator felt that HSBC should have 
contacted Mr D by phone or email to tell him that he had cancelled his direct  debit which  
would have given  him the opportunity to reinstate it. His view was that this complaint should  
be upheld and that HSBC should amend  Mr Ds credit file. HSBC disagreed saying  in 
summary that it was Mr D who cancelled the direct debit.  
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I summarise my provisional findings below:
I noted that there was a conflict between Mr D and HSBC about who cancelled the direct 
debit and I had to consider on balance what was likely to have happened. The HSBC  log 
recorded that at 9.45 am on that day Mr D cancelled  two direct debits. Mr D said that he 
cancelled one but not the other. The log recorded  that Mr D between 9.43 and 9.45 issued 
eight on-line banking  instructions and that only one of these was disputed. I noted that six of 
these involved removing  beneficiaries from the account and that the input user ID was the 
same for all transactions. HSBC said that there  was no computer system problems recorded  
on that day. 
Ref: DRN40595272My view of the evidence was that on the 9 May Mr D had been tidying up his bank account 
and issued a series of online instructions. I noted in the letter of 14 July 2018 to Mr D, HSBC  
said that he opened a new joint bank account on 15 June although by 14 July no funds  had 
been paid into that bank  account. So, I suggested that it may be that Mr D was reordering 
his finances with the new account in mind.
But I said that In any case given that Mr D was involved in a series of transactions on 9 May 
and that there were  no recorded computer problems, it was more likely than not that Mr D 
issued the instruction to cancel the direct debit. I noted that  although it appeared to be 
related to a number  of online banking instructions Mr D was issuing that morning it was of 
course possible that he did so in error. But I said that HSBC  sent Mr D a letter the very next 
day to tell him that he had cancelled the direct debit and that the bank couldnt collect the 
mortgage payment  which gave  him an early opportunity  to rectify the error if that was the 
case. 
Mr D said that he didnt  receive that letter.  But I noted that it was properly addressed and 
sent by HSBC to Mr D. I noted  that our investigator had suggested that HSBC  should have 
alerted Mr D to his error by other communication means. But I felt that if it was an error  that 
HSBC could reasonably assume  that Mr D would get this letter in sufficient time to deal with 
the issue. But, I said that if Mr Ds instruction was intentional, any additional communication  
would have been unnecessary. In any case,  I felt that as Mr D had access to and used 
online banking that he could have viewed whether his mortgage payment was being paid 
each month. 
So, my provisional view was that Mr D instructed that his direct debit to be cancelled which 
resulted in HSBC  reporting the missed  payments  to the credit  reference agencies. I didnt 
believe that HSBC  had done  anything  wrong  and didnt intend to uphold the complaint but 
invited Mr D and HSBC  to submit further evidence for my consideration.
   
Further submissions:
Following my provisional decision, Mr D said that he disagreed  and made a number of 
further submissions to me which I will summarise as follows:
Mr D says he first knew that the direct  debit was cancelled was when he got the letter  
from HSBC of 2 July.
Mr D never got the letter of 10 May.
The new joint account was opened in June and not used until July. Mr D says that he 
wasnt re-ordering his finances with the new account in mind.
It wouldnt have been unusual for him not to check  his account in June  and early  July 
because of his work,  travel and family illnesses.
Mr D says that on 9 May he was deleting duplicate  payees/beneficiaries.  He believes 
that if the HSBC  system mistakenly  duplicates payee payment instructions  it can 
mistakenly delete a direct  debit.
Mr D never got a letter after he missed the June mortgage payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN40595273Although HSBC didnt  make any submissions I raised a number of issues with HSBC. I 
questioned why the letter of 9 May refers to the bank being unable  to collect a mortgage 
direct debit payment.  At that stage although the direct debit was cancelled,  Mr D hadnt 
missed a payment.  HSBC  says that it was a system generated generic letter that gets issued 
when a direct debit is cancelled to a mortgage account. That would also explain Mr Ds 
query why no letter  was sent on the car finance direct debit that he cancelled  at the same 
time as its not a mortgage account.
The evidence indicates that Mr D was involved in a tidying up exercise on his on-line 
banking system on the morning  of 9 May 2018. I have to weigh up whether it was more likely  
that the mortgage direct debit was deleted  by Mr D as part of the tidying up exercise or by 
some computer glitch caused by HSBCs system. Mr D refers  to the HSBC system 
duplicating the beneficiaries which sparked  the tidy-up. But whatever issue  is involved in 
duplication doesnt appear  to me to be relevant  to the deletion of a direct debit. 
HSBC tell me that there  was no system  issues on the day in question. It says if there were 
system issues,  incidents would have been raised  but this wasnt  the case. HSBC says that 
the code shown in the input user ID for the deletion  is not a HSBC  agent ID and indicates 
that Mr D made the relevant deletion. The input  user ID is the same for all Mr Ds instructions 
on that morning.  My view of the evidence is that its more likely than not that Mr D made the 
deletion of the direct debit  on 9 May 2018.
There is also a dispute as to whether Mr D should  have reasonably been aware of it. HSBC  
says that it sent the computer generated letter on 10 May telling Mr D that the direct  debit 
was cancelled and asking him to set up a new instruction. Although Mr D says he didnt get 
this, as I said in my provisional  decision, that letter seems  to have been properly addressed 
and was likely to have  alerted Mr D to the deletion of the direct debit if he had been unaware 
of it. So, I consider that HSBC fairly  alerted Mr D to the deleted direct  debit. It didnt alert Mr 
D to the missed payment in June but it had already alerted Mr D to the deleted  direct debit. 
HSBC then gave  Mr D a further notification in July under its regulatory obligations.
Ive considered Mr Ds further  submissions  but I believe that my provisional decision 
represents a fair outcome to this complaint. My view is that Mr D deleted the direct debit and 
HSBC gave him fair warning that he had done so. As a result of deleting  the direct debit, Mr 
D missed two payments  and HSBC reported  these  as missed payments to the credit 
reference agencies.  For the above  reasons  I cant fairly uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4059527