K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that the Society of Lloyds  (Lloyds)  wont meet  a claim he made under his 
home insurance for a stolen watch. He wants the claim  to be met and £500 compensation 
for the trouble hes been put to.
background 
Much of this claim and complaint has been handled  by Lloyds representative, a claim 
handing company.  But its Lloyds that is responsible for the decision on the claim and 
Lloyds has also taken  responsibility for the complaint. To avoid confusion  Ill refer to Lloyds 
throughout.
This is a summary of what happened:
Mr M left his watch  in a bag at the side of a football pitch  whilst  he was playing.  He later 
discovered it was missing and after a little delay (because he was on holiday) reported the 
theft to the police and approached Lloyds about claiming for it. That was in the first week  or 
so of September 2017.
The watch  was listed on Mr Ms policy as being worth about  £2,750.  Lloyds asked for 
information about the loss, including proof  that Mr M owned it. The latter  was provided to 
Lloyds towards the end of November. Lloyds continued to investigate the claim, and talked 
to Mr Ms partner  about what had happened.
In early February 2018 Lloyds called Mr M and said it wasnt  going to pay for the watch 
because he hadnt  taken good  enough care of it.
Mr M was unhappy about this, the way the claim had been handled and the time it had taken 
to get to this point. 
Lloyds said it wouldnt pay the claim.  But it did acknowledge it had taken a long time to 
reach a decision  so offered Mr M £100  for this. Mr M brought  his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  think Lloyds  had been unreasonable  when it refused to pay the claim. 
But she thought  the inconvenience  caused by the way it handled the claim  including 
involving Mr Ms partner  warranted £200  compensation rather  than £100.
Mr M remains unhappy so Ive been asked to decide  this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two main parts to this complaint, and Ill deal with them separately.
Ref: DRN49208642the outcome of the claim
I can see our investigator has spent a little while explaining why she thought Lloyds  had 
been fair when  it said it wouldnt meet Mr Ms claim, and he appears  to have now accepted 
this. But Id like to explain why I think she was correct.
When a claim  is made, an insurer first looks to see if the claim  is something  Mr M is covered 
for under his policy. In this case that was theft  and Mr Ms policy  covers  that. So Lloyds 
said it would  consider the claim.
Lloyds would then look at the circumstances  surrounding the theft,  and apply any 
exceptions contained in the policy if they were applicable. Exceptions are reasons why an 
insurer can legitimately refuse to meet a claim, and they are common in all insurance 
policies. Mr Ms policy  says (in summary) that it doesnt have to meet  a claim for theft if Mr M 
hasnt taken reasonable care of his belongings. Lloyds said this exception applied,  because 
Mr M had left his watch in a bag that was sat unattended at the side of a football whilst Mr M 
was playing. I think thats a reasonable interpretation of the exception, as its unlikely Mr M 
could have kept his eye on the bag at all times. So I do think  he left the watch in a place that 
made it vulnerable  to theft.
I understand why Mr M thought that  as hed bought insurance   he should  have his claim 
paid. But no insurance policy  Ive seen covers all eventualities, and I think its fair that 
insurers limit their liability to a reasonable extent. I think Lloyds decision to apply the 
exclusion was fair. So I dont uphold this part of Mr Ms complaint.
the way the claim  was conducted
Making any insurance claim is going  to cause some inconvenience. But Id still expect  
Lloyds to compensate  Mr M if its handling of the claim made this worse  than it needed to be. 
I can see Lloyds spent  some time collecting information about this claim, and then more  
time interviewing Mr Ms partner.  I dont think the latter  was necessary, given the reason 
Lloyds declined the claim.  And I can see also that Mr M spent some time chasing Lloyds for 
a response, which  he shouldnt  have  to do. I think  the £200  recommended by our 
investigator is a fair amount of compensation for the extra inconvenience  over and above 
that associated  with making any claim  is fair. 
Mr M told us that he thought staff had been  rude to both him and his partner. Ive listened  to 
several calls - in particular the ones between Lloyds and Mr Ms partner and Lloyds and 
Mr M when  he was told his claim wouldnt be met. I didnt hear anything  that struck me as 
being rude  on both occasions the member of staff appears polite and professional.  
other points
Mr M says his assistant at work spent some time dealing with this claim so he wants that 
time paid for. The instance he mentions is about reporting the theft to the police. Thats  a 
normal part of making any claim in circumstances like this. The fact that it was one of Mr Ms 
employees who did this doesnt mean their time should be paid for. And if the member  of 
staff did other things to progress the claim  then that was Mr Ms choice. This service  
Ref: DRN49208643doesnt award compensation for inconvenience  caused to a business.  Mr Ms inconvenience 
has already been  accounted for in the compensation outlined above.
Mr M also wanted some of his premiums  back,  as he said hed been paying for insurance  for 
the five months  it took to get the claim sorted out. He says hed have cancelled  the 
insurance if hed had the response earlier. I dont think thats appropriate.  Mr M knew  his 
claim had been  declined in early February. Ive listened to that call and Mr M was told 
cancelling his policy wouldnt  affect his ability to make a complaint. But he didnt cancel the 
insurance until about six weeks later. So it doesnt seem to have  been  a matter of urgency 
for him, and Im not persuaded hed have cancelled it much earlier than he did.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I order the Society of Lloyds  to pay 
Mr M £200, less any compensation it might already have paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4920864