K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained about what Barclays Bank UK PLC has done to put things right 
following his complaint about the sale of payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr R complained that hed been mis-sold  PPI alongside a loan in 1997. Barclays  looked at 
this and offered  to settle the complaint. It worked out it needed  to pay Mr R £5,117.60. Mr R 
thinks he should get more. 
I issued provisional  findings on this complaint on 7 October 2019. A copy of the provisional 
decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision. My provisional  decision sets out the 
background to the complaint and said that, based  on what Id seen so far, Barclays  had 
offered fair compensation for mis-selling PPI.
In response, Barclays says it has nothing further  to add. Mr R hasnt sent me anything 
further to consider. Ive therefore looked at the complaint again.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Barclays nor Mr R have sent me anything further to consider, I reach the same 
conclusions for the same  reasons.  In all the circumstances, I think  what Barclays  has offered 
is fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC has offered  fair compensation for mis-selling 
PPI. I understand Barclays Bank UK PLC has already paid this  so I dont make  a further 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN43984832copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Mr R is unhappy with what  Barclays Bank UK PLC has offered to do to put things right following his 
complaint about the sale of payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 1997, Mr R applied for a loan. At the same time, Barclays  sold him a PPI policy. The cost of the 
policy was added to the loan, so hed repay the extra hed borrowed, with interest, as part of his 
monthly loan repayments.
Mr R thinks  the policy was mis-sold. 
Barclays looked at this and offered to settle the complaint. It offered to refund the insurance premiums  
paid plus the interest on the premiums hed paid. And as he had to pay more because  of the PPI, it 
also offered  to pay simple  interest  to compensate Mr R for the time hed been out of pocket.  It worked  
out it needed to pay Mr R £5,117.60.
Mr R doesnt think Barclays has worked  this out correctly. In particular, he thinks its got the details of 
when the loan ended  wrong. And so he thinks  he should get more.
Our adjudicator looked  at this and thought that what Barclays had offered was fair. Mr R didnt agree. 
So the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
As Barclays has agreed the PPI was mis-sold, Ive just looked at whether what  it has offered is fair.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about the sale of PPI should be upheld, Id 
expect the business to put the consumer as far as possible in the position theyd be in if the policy 
hadnt been sold.
In Mr Rs case the cost of the PPI was added to a loan. So Mr R paid more towards the loan than he 
should have. And if he repaid the loan early, then hed need to pay more than he would have done to 
repay the extra he borrowed.  Mr R needs to get the extra he paid back.
what information  does  Barclays have about  the loan, and did Mr R repay the loan early?
Ive first looked at what Barclays has done. Barclays says that because  of the time thats passed, the 
information it has about  the loan is limited. This isnt surprising given the loan started  in 1997, over 20 
years ago. But Barclays has said it has used the information  it does have to make assumptions about  
the information thats  missing.
Barclays says the loan started in January 1997 and was due to end on 1 October  1999. The loan had 
monthly loan repayments of £230.97. And finally, Barclays says that when the policy ended Mr R 
received a small refund, to reflect the part of the policy he couldnt  use. (This  was £334.05.) It also 
has ledgers  for the account  from January  1998 until the it says the loan ended in 1999.
Using this, it says its worked out the amount Mr R borrowed, the extra  he borrowed to pay for the 
PPI, the total number of payments, the interest rate and the number of payments he made. 
Ref: DRN43984833Mr R doesnt agree with some of these assumptions. In particular, he says he didnt  repay  the loan 
early. He thinks he carried on paying for the loan over a 60 month period.  And hes questioned the 
veracity of Barclayss records.
Ive carefully considered the points Mr R has raised   and thought  about what hes said alongside the 
other information Ive seen.
Barclays has provided  ledgers for the loan from January  1998 to September  1999.  This shows that on 
29 September 1999 a payment of £5,770.92 was made to the account. Barclays has also provided a 
bank ledger for Mr Rs current account. I see the payment  of £5,770.92 on the list of transactions  
and there  was a further credit from Barclayloan a week later showing the refund of £334.05.
Where theres disagreement  about what  happened I need to decide  whats most  likely on the balance 
of probabilities. I acknowledge that Mr R feels strongly that the information Barclays has sent me is 
wrong. But based on everything Ive seen,  I think its most likely  that Mr R did repay  the loan in 
September 1999. (It appears he repaid the loan with a new loan from another  lender.) 
I also see the monthly repayment and the refund Barclays have used match  the amounts shown on 
the statements Ive seen. The total amount Barclays thinks  Mr R borrowed  is consistent with the 
amounts he owed during the period it holds  ledgers.
And so based  on what Ive seen  so far  and in the absence  of better information about Mr Rs loan  
I dont think the assumptions Barclays have used are unfair. If Mr R has better  information about how 
much extra he borrowed for the PPI he should let me know in response to this provisional  decision.
is the offer of compensation fair?
Ive gone on to look at whether Barclayss offer is fair in the circumstances of Mr Rs complaint.
Barclays says Mr R paid £230.97 a month towards the loan  and Ive seen ledgers  confirming this. If 
Mr R hadnt bought  a PPI policy, Mr R would have paid less each month. So he needs  to get back  the 
extra he paid. Barclays says Mr R borrowed an extra £2,058.10 to pay for the PPI  or around 19.76% 
of the total he borrowed. So he needs to get back this proportion of the payments he made. I think in 
total Mr R paid around £1,449  extra as part of his monthly loan repayments.
Mr R also needs to get back  anything extra he had to pay when he settled  the loan early. The 
statements Ive seen show Mr R received a small  refund to reflect the fact hed cancelled the loan 
early  so hes already got some of this back. Once I take this into account, this means  Mr R had to 
pay an extra  £797 to repay the loan early.
Barclays worked out the extra Mr R paid because of the PPI was £2,246.51, which  is very close to the 
figures Ive reached  above.
Barclays has also added interest  the rate is 8% simple a year - to compensate Mr R for the time 
hes been out of pocket. Barclays worked  this out to be £3,588.86  and I think  thats right based on 
the time thats passed since Mr R made each repayment. HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays 
to deduct tax from this amount. So Mr R gets £2,871.09 in interest.  And altogether, including  both the 
extra he paid and interest, he gets £5,117.60.
I accept that that the information Barclays has is incomplete. But we do know how much Mr R paid 
each month  towards  the loan, and how much he had to pay when he repaid the loan early. And so Im 
satisfied that the amount  Barclays has offered  reflects  what  Mr R paid towards this loan.
For the same reasons, though Mr R thinks he borrowed  the money  over 60 months,  and not the 66 
months Barclays assumed,  I dont think this makes a difference to my conclusion  as I know how 
much Mr R paid each  month and what was left when the loan ended. 
Ref: DRN43984834In all the circumstances, I think what Barclays has offered is fair.
my provisional  decision
Subject to anything else Mr R or Barclays Bank UK PLC send  me, I think  Barclays has offered  fair 
compensation for mis-selling PPI.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4398483