K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (Inter Partner)  provided poor service when 
responding to claims he made on a home insurance  policy. 
background
For the purposes of this complaint, where  I refer to Inter Partner  within this decision,  this 
includes its agents and representatives.
Mr H holds a home  insurance policy provided  by Inter Partner. He contacted  Inter Partner  to 
say that a leak from the boiler had been  discovered at his home  and Inter Partner  arranged  
for a plumber to attend as an emergency.
After the plumber attended, Mr H made  a complaint.  He said that the quality of the work 
carried out and advice given was substandard. He said that the leak had damaged the 
property and that wires had been  left exposed. Inter Partner concluded that hed been  given  
appropriate advice  around turning off the boiler to stop the leak,  but that the wires had been 
left exposed and the quality of that work could have been better. It paid £150  in 
compensation. As Mr H was unhappy with this outcome, he approached our service.
Our investigator initially agreed with Inter Partner. Mr H disagreed and provided further 
evidence to suggest that the initial leak occurred because repairs  carried out on an earlier  
emergency call out around eight months earlier had been poor.  On reviewing further  
evidence, our investigator took the view that it was more likely than not that the leak had 
occurred because the repairs carried out by Inter Partner originally had been substandard. 
And so it was reasonable to ask Inter Partner  to cover the costs of repairing the damage  
caused by the leak.  She also said that Inter Partner  should pay an additional £150 in 
compensation. 
Mr H and Inter Partner agreed with this outcome.  But Inter Partner now disputes the extent 
of the works it should be liable for and has asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with our investigator that, in the circumstances, Inter Partner should be liable for the 
costs incurred in repairing  the damage  caused by the leak.  The evidence  I have available  
leads me to conclude  that its more likely than not that the leak occurred because previous 
repairs carried out at Inter Partners  instruction were deficient and meant that the leak 
occurred unnoticed  until the damage was discovered.
The dispute  appears to be about the extent of the repair  works  Inter Partner should be liable 
for. At the time of our investigator giving her view, a quotation for the works wasnt available, 
but on receipt of this Inter Partner queried whether the works quoted for should be covered 
here. Our investigator confirmed that she considered it should be liable for 
Ive looked at the quotation supplied by Mr H. And it seems to me that the matters in dispute 
are repairs  to a bathroom ceiling  and replacement of two speakers. Inter Partners accepted 
it should pay the costs related to repairing a wall and ceiling on a staircase.
Ref: DRN42203632Mr H has provided photos  to support his claim for the damaged ceiling and speakers. The 
speakers are in the bathroom ceiling  so these two items are, in essence,  repairs  to the same  
part of the same room.  The photos do appear to show water staining to this area. Hes also 
explained that the boiler is in an airing  cupboard on the floor above the bathroom, so its 
assumed (and I accept) that water has leaked  from above onto this area. The speakers have 
stopped working,  presumably  because of them being exposed to water.
Im therefore  satisfied that, as Inter Partner  is to be considered liable for the repairs  which 
are required  because of the leak, it should  be asked to cover  these repairs to the bathroom  
ceiling and the replacement of the speakers. 
Our investigator also said that an additional  £150 should be paid in compensation to 
recognise the distress  and inconvenience  caused. I agree with this. The poor workmanship 
of Inter Partners instructed plumbers has caused  damage to the property which  hes now 
having to arrange to have  repaired.
my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order  to put things  right, I order  Inter Partner 
Assistance SA to:
Cover the costs of the repairs to the wall and ceiling on the staircase.
Cover the costs of the repairs to the bathroom  ceiling.
Cover the costs of replacing two speakers in the bathroom ceiling.
Pay £150 compensation. Inter Partner must pay this amount within 28 days of us 
notifying it that Mr H accepts our decision. In the event that it does not, it must  pay 
interest at a rate of 8% simple  per year from that date until the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to  ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2021.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4220363