K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained that Hastings Insurance Services  Limited  failed to add a temporary  
vehicle to his motor insurance policy.  He said this caused him additional costs  and undue 
stress, for which he feels Hastings should pay him further compensation.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September  2019,  an extract  of which is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  In my provisional decision I explained why I 
thought this complaint should  be upheld. And I asked both parties  to send me any further 
comments and information  before  I reached a final decision.
Hastings did not respond to my provisional decision. Mr A responded and confirmed he 
accepted the provisional decision. So Im now in a position to issue  my final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within my provisional decision,  I explained  that if Mr A could evidence that hes cancelled 
the alternative policy he took out with another insurer within  three months of its inception,  
then Hastings should also pay Mr A any set-up, cancellation or administrative charges on his 
alternative policy, so that he pays no more than he would have under the original Hastings 
temporary vehicle cover.
Mr A has now confirmed  that he cancelled his alternative policy on 16 October  2019. I 
appreciate this is just outside the initial three-month window set out within my provisional 
decision. But I still think its reasonable to conclude that Mr A only wanted cover  for around 
the three-month period  he initially requested with Hastings, because  the alternative  policy  
was cancelled only 11 days  outside  this timeframe. So I still think  Hastings  should  cover 
these costs. 
As Hastings  did not respond to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my 
initial conclusions. 
my final decision 
I uphold this complaint.  And I direct Hastings Insurance  Services  Limited  to:
-pay Mr A the £70 its agreed to, to cover  the difference in the premium costs  of the two 
policies. Hastings  should pay interest on this amount  at 8% simple from the date he 
purchased the alternative cover, to the date of settlement 
-pay Mr A any set-up, cancellation  or administrative charges on his alternative policy, so 
that he pays  no more  than he would have under the original Hastings  temporary vehicle 
cover. And Hastings  should pay interest on this amount at 8% simple  from the date of 
refund on the alternative policy, to the date of settlement
Ref: DRN48857132-pay Mr A £100 for the trouble and upset  caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48857133extract  from provisional  decision
background
In early 2019, Mr A contacted Hastings to add a temporary vehicle to his policy. But Hastings 
declined his request,  because  it said hed already  added temporary vehicle cover three times 
this year,  which was the maximum allowed under his policy. 
Mr A complained. He said he was allowed  to add temporary vehicle cover to his p
olicy for up to 28 days, on up to three occasions per policy year.  And that the three 
occasions Hastings  was referring  to were in a previous policy  year, so his request shouldve 
been approved.
Hastings investigated  the matter and agreed it had made  a mistake. It said that Mr As 
request was declined because  of an error  that resulted in its systems not recognising a new 
policy year had started.  So it apologised to Mr A, and sent him a cheque  for £70.
Mr A said Hastings decision  meant hed had to pay extra to insure  his vehicle elsewhere, so 
he thought Hastings should pay him a higher level of compensation. But Hastings disagreed. 
So, unhappy  with Hastings offer, he brought his complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Mr As complaint  and recommended  it be upheld.  She said it had 
cost Mr A around an additional  £60 to insure  his vehicle for a three month period with 
another provider.   And while Hastings £70 offer covered this difference,  it didnt take 
account of the cost of arranging his new policy of £120. So she said Hastings should 
increase its offer by £120. And asked it to pay Mr A £190 in settlement of his complaint, to 
reflect the additional costs hed incurred as a result of Hastings error. 
Hastings accepted the investigators findings, but Mr A disagreed, and said he felt he should 
be compensated between £300 and £500.
So as no agreements been reached  at this stage, the case has come to me, as an 
ombudsman, to decide.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mr A had wanted to add another  vehicle onto his policy, and hed previously done so on a 
number of occasions with no apparent issues. So to have had his request refused this time, 
resulting in him needing to take cover elsewhere, must have been frustrating. But Hastings  
has already accepted it made an error, so my decision will focus  on what  it needs  to do to 
put things right. 
From the evidence provided, I can see Mr A chose to take out an annual  policy  with another 
insurer in July 2019, costing him £970 for the year, which hes told us he paid up front. He 
also seems to have paid an arrangement fee for this policy of a further  £120.  And he only 
needed to do this because of Hastings  error.   
Ref: DRN48857134The cost to insure this temporary vehicle with Hastings would have cost Mr A an additional 
£60 a month, had his request been  approved. Whereas the pro-rata  monthly cost without the 
arrangement fee on the policy he ended up taking out, was around £80. This means, hed 
paid the equivalent of around £20 a month extra by having to insure  this vehicle with another  
provider, which was an extra £60 over the three months hed wanted to be insured for. 
But Hastings initially offered Mr A £70 in settlement of his complaint. So Im satisfied this 
offer suitably reimburses Mr A for the loss he experienced over the three months.  And as 
Mr A has been without this money  for a period of time, Hastings should add interest  to this 
amount, at a rate of 8% simple from the date he paid for the policy to the date it makes 
payment to him. 
The investigator that considered Mr As case also thought Hastings  should  refund the £120 
arrangement fee he paid to set up the alternative policy. As she felt this was an additional 
cost incurred as a result of Hastings error.  While I understand the investigators findings, I 
dont think its fair of me at this stage  to tell Hastings to refund this fee. Ill explain why.
Mr A took out alternative cover around July 2019,  as a result  of not being able to insure his 
temporary vehicle with Hastings. But the policy he took out was for a 12 month period. Mr A 
said that this was the only length  policy he could find, and he was unable to secure  a three 
month policy elsewhere.
While I accept Mr A may not have been able to find an alternative three month policy  
elsewhere, I can also see that in a recent  conversation with the investigator, Mr A said that 
he hadnt cancelled  this policy as of yet. So at present, I have no way of being  certain  
whether Mr A will go ahead and cancel this annual policy at the point he reaches three 
months of cover; or if hell let it run for its full term. And this will have an impact on what  I 
think Hastings needs to do to put things right - Ill explain.  
If Mr A doesnt cancel this policy at the three month  point, it would be reasonable for me to 
conclude he may have wanted  to have been insured for longer than the three  month period 
Hastings was offering.  Therefore, it wouldnt be appropriate in these circumstances, for me 
to ask Hastings  to refund the policy arrangement fee. As, if he wanted  to be insured  for more 
than three  months,  its likely he would have  had to pay this fee for another policy at the point 
the Hastings cover would have expired.
 
To the contrary - If Mr A does cancel the alternative policy  he took out at the three month 
period, then Id likely conclude that he only wanted cover for the three months he initially  
requested with Hastings,  and was unlikely to have sought a further policy  when that cover 
expired. This would mean, that not only would he have paid an additional  cost for both the 
arrangement fee and the policy itself, but would also likely accrue cancellation costs on the 
new policy, which he otherwise wouldnt have incurred, had it not been for Hastings error. 
So I think any award I make, needs to take both the above points into account.
As well as the above, Mr As complained that he thinks the fact he had to move his policy to 
another provider,  will have affect his no claims discount (NCD), and feels  he should  be 
compensated for this. 
But if Mr A cancels the alternative policy he took out around the three  month point, its 
unlikely he would have  accrued any further  NCD on that policy,  as a customers NCD usually 
increases with every full year of cover. 
Ref: DRN48857135And if he had managed  to insure his vehicle with Hastings  again, it wouldve only been for 
a maximum of three months, and not for the year required to accrue any additional  NCD.
And Ive seen nothing  to suggest that the discount  Mr A has under his existing Hastings 
policy, will be in any way negatively impacted, as a result of Hastings decision not to provide 
him with three months of temporary cover.  
So from what Ive seen,  and from what Mr As told me about his intentions,  I think its unlikely 
Hastings decision has had any impact  on his NCD. So Im not telling Hastings to do 
anything more in this regard. 
I understand this has been a stressful situation  for Mr A, and not being able to have a 
temporary vehicle added to his policy when  he requested it must have been  frustrating.  
So I currently intend to uphold this complaint. 
To put things right for Mr A, I currently think Hastings should pay him the £70 its offered, to 
cover the difference in the cost of the two policies in question. And, if Mr A can evidence  hes 
cancelled his new policy within three months of its inception,  then Hastings should  also 
cover any additional  costs associated with the setting up and cancelling of this policy,  so that 
Mr A pays  no more  than he would have under the Hastings temporary vehicle cover.  As 
Mr A will have been without this money,  Hastings should add interest  to this amount at a rate 
of 8% simple, from the date Mr A bought the alternative policy to the date it makes payment.
I also think this matter  would have caused Mr A undue stress. Hes told us that hes had 
sleepless nights as a result of Hastings error, and having to worry about how he will insure 
his vehicle. So I also think Hastings  should pay Mr A £100  for the trouble  and upset caused.  
Ref: DRN4885713