K822xthe complaint
Mrs M says TSB Bank plc breached her personal data and didnt tell her about the breach as 
quickly as it should  have.
what happened  
In April 2018 TSB migrated its customers to a new computer platform. This migration didnt 
go according to plan and there were problems which affected  lots of TSB customers  in 
different ways. 
Mrs M was one of the people affected  by the migration problems and so she complained to 
TSB about  this. In July 2018 TSB sent a letter acknowledging Mrs Ms complaint, and it later 
resolved the complaint and paid Mrs M compensation. 
Mrs M thought the matter  was closed. But in February 2019 TSB wrote  to tell her that, when  
it first acknowledged her complaint, it had mistakenly sent that letter   containing her name,  
address and complaint reference  number  only  to another customer. TSB explained that it 
had then issued  a replacement copy of the letter to Mrs M in July 2018. TSB apologised for 
this breach of Mrs Ms personal data and paid her £250 in compensation for the impact this 
had. It also offered her the opportunity to sign up to a years  worth of free identity protection. 
Mrs M wasnt happy with this, so she made a new complaint to TSB. She asked why TSB 
hadnt told her about the breach until February  2019, when it had clearly  known about it in 
July 2018. When  TSB responded  to this new complaint by saying there had been  no bank 
error, Mrs M referred her complaint to us.  
Our adjudicators didnt  think TSBs  response  had really got to grips with Mrs Ms complaint, 
or answered  her question. But they thought  the compensation TSB had paid, along with the 
identity protection  offered, was a fair way to put right any potential impact from the breach. 
Mrs M still wanted an explanation about  why TSB didnt tell her about the breach sooner. 
So she asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
I looked at TSBs response to Mrs Ms complaint and decided that it hadnt properly 
understood her concerns. So I asked TSB to write a new response, which  it has now done  
and which  Mrs M has now had. In it, TSB apologised for its previous poor response and 
accepted there clearly  had been a bank error.  It explained that the breach had been  caused 
by human error and said that, while it had taken longer than TSB would have liked to put 
things right, it had notified customers as soon as it possibly  could. 
Mrs M remained unhappy with this. She said TSB could and should have told her about the 
data breach in July 2018, when it sent her a replacement copy of the acknowledgement 
letter. So she didnt accept that TSB told her as soon as it possibly could. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally its come to me for a decision. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN42577832I fully understand  Mrs Ms concerns at being  told  out of the blue as she described it  that 
a letter  about  her initial complaint had been  sent to someone else.  And I also understand her 
frustration that she wasnt  told sooner. Its also clear that TSBs initial response to her 
complaint missed the point she was making.  This led it to mistakenly  say there  had been  no 
error  which  understandably annoyed  Mrs M even  more.  
Mrs Ms question  has always been why TSB didnt tell her about  the breach as soon as it 
found out about it. I think the answer is likely  to be that TSB received a very significant 
number of complaints  about the IT migration problems in a short  space of time.  It wasnt 
capable of responding to those complaints in anything like the timeframe it would normally  
expect  and indeed be required  to. And this in turn meant it couldnt immediately address 
the data breach issue either.
So it seems  TSB prioritised sending a replacement acknowledgement letter  for Mrs Ms 
initial complaint instead.  And then, once it had worked through the complaints it had, it 
revisited this particular issue and provided  a resolution to customers,  like Mrs M, who were  
affected by it. So I think when TSB says it notified  customers as soon as it possibly could 
its referring to the fact that it did so once  it had the time and resources to be able to.  
I realise Mrs M finds it unsatisfactory that TSB didnt tell her about the breach when it sent 
her the replacement letter. But its important to note that my role isnt to decide  whether TSB 
has breached data protection legislation, or to sanction TSB for its actions. My role is to look 
at what happened  and what impact it had on Mrs M  and then decide whether TSB has 
done enough to put things right in her particular circumstances. 
TSB has paid Mrs M £250 in compensation and Im satisfied that this is fair for the data 
breach and for the time taken to tell her about  it. TSB has also provided  Mrs M with a way to 
monitor her credit file  which Mrs M says she is now doing.  And when Im considering the 
actual impact here, Ive taken into account that Mrs M says there hasnt been any effect on 
her credit file and there  doesnt seem  to be any evidence that her information has been mis-
used in any way. Her concerns are primarily about what might  have happened  but I have 
to base my decision on what did happen.  
Taking everything into account  I think the £250 compensation payment, the access  to a 
years worth  of free identity protection and the new response letter TSB has now issued, 
means that TSB has done  enough to put right what went wrong  here. So I dont  require it to 
do any more in this case. 
Ref: DRN42577833my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc has done enough to provide a fair resolution to 
Mrs Ms complaint. So I make no further  order or award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4257783