K820x#14complaint
Mr C1, Mr C2, and Mrs C complain about  the interest rate The Mortgage Business  Plc has 
charged on their buy-to-let mortgage. Theyre unhappy  the rate hasnt decreased  in line with 
Bank of England  base rate reductions.
Mr C1 is leading the complaint on behalf of himself,  his brother (Mr C2) and mother (Mrs C), 
who are all named on the mortgage.
background
In 2006, Mr C1, Mr C2 and Mrs C switched to a five-year tracker  rate on their buy-to-let 
mortgage. The rate was 0.49% above Bank  of England base rate, which they paid until July 
2011, when the mortgage moved onto TMBs Standard Variable Rate (SVR). In 2006 when 
the mortgage moved onto the five-year tracker  rate, the SVR was 6.74%. However, when 
they actually moved  onto the SVR in July 2011,  the rate had dropped  to 4.84%.  It went  up to 
4.95% in November  2011, which is what they paid until the mortgage was redeemed  in June 
2017.
In 2016, Mr C1 complained to TMB that they hadnt benefitted from reductions in the Bank of 
England base rate. TMB explained that whilst the mortgage  had been  on a tracker rate, the 
interest rate had changed in line any changes in the base rate. However, the mortgage had 
been on the SVR since 2011,  which isnt linked to the base  rate, and is set by the bank.
Mr C1 brought his complaint to us, with the authority  of Mr C2 and Mrs C. Our investigator 
looked into things  and explained  that, in his view,  TMB hadnt acted unfairly in regards to the 
interest rate charged. Mr C1 disagreed,  so the complaints been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the interest rate paid on this mortgage whilst it was on the five-year  tracker  
rate, and Im satisfied  that any changes in the Bank of England base  rate were passed  on 
within 30 days, as stated in the mortgage  offer document. So Im not persuaded Mr C1 
hasnt benefitted  from the base rate reductions in the past.
However, since the mortgage has been on TMBs SVR, there  has been one reduction in the 
base rate in 2016, which didnt reflect in a change  to the rate charged on the mortgage.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the mortgage that Mr C1, Mr C2, and Mrs C agreed 
to when  they took it out. These explain that the lender may change the standard  variable  
rate at any time, and they give a list of reasons for why the rate may be varied. 
There is no indication on any of the mortgage  paperwork, or in the terms and conditions, that 
the SVR would track the base rate. The terms of the mortgage explain that the interest  rate 
applicable is variable, and the bank set this rate. So whilst I appreciate  Mr C1 feels  the 
interest rate theyve  paid has been too high, Im satisfied TMB have charged interest in line 
with the terms of the mortgage, and were  entitled to do so. 
I also want to point out that the borrowers have in fact benefited from the lenders ability to 
change the interest rate, as it has fallen since they agreed to an SVR of 6.74% in 2006. I 
understand Mr C1 has asked for evidence to show that he agreed to this rate in 2006. But Im 
Ref: DRN48487532satisfied that in order for this mortgage  to have been drawn down,  all parties  would have had 
to agree to the terms set out in the mortgage offer. Im also aware that Mr C1 has since  
received another copy of this offer, so Im satisfied TMB dont need to do any more here.
Whilst the mortgage was on the SVR, there was no Early Repayment Charge (ERC) 
payable if Mr C1 and his family wanted to redeem  the mortgage and move to another lender. 
So Im satisfied there were no contractual  barriers preventing them from redeeming their 
mortgage early if they wanted to look for another interest rate elsewhere.  
TMB didnt offer any new lending or products themselves, but this in itself didnt mean  that 
Mr C1 and his family couldnt  have redeemed the mortgage and moved to a different lender.  
I appreciate its likely  this wouldve been difficult  for them, given their circumstances. Mr C1s 
told us that he had to stop working due to this health, his brother was in a low paid job, and 
his mother was retired. Hes also told us that the loan-to-value of the property suffered at 
times, and whilst he had conversations with other  banks about moving, these never went 
any further. Mrs C eventually  redeemed  the mortgage in 2017 using her savings.  
I appreciate the family have been  through a difficult time, but Im not persuaded this was as 
a result of TMB charging them an unfair  interest  rate. It was their wider circumstances that 
unfortunately made the buy-to-let mortgage  unsustainable for them.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C1, Mr C2 and 
Mrs C to accept  or reject  my decision before  28 April 2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4848753