K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC (Tesco) mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) to him alongside a credit card. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I 
asked the parties  for their comments  and invited the parties to send me any further  
information and evidence they wanted  me to consider. Tesco didnt respond.  Mr Ls 
representatives told us they had nothing  further  to add. 
My provisional decision is attached and it forms part of my final decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
As neither party has sent me anything further  to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So I havent  upheld  Mr Ls complaint about mis-sold PPI. That means 
Tesco doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L. 
But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
It got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Mr L about  that. Because Tesco didnt tell Mr L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has offered to pay back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
If it has not done so already, Tesco has to pay back to Mr L any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should also pay back to Mr L any 
extra interest he paid because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr L the difference  between 
what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco  should also pay Mr L 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr L can claim  back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
Ref: DRN47274822But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mr L any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr L complains  that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco)  mis-sold payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) to him alongside a credit card in 2001.  
background
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld. Tesco disagreed  with that view and so the 
matter has been passed to me to make  a final decision.  
Ref: DRN47274823my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L. But as things stand, I dont think  the complaint should be upheld. Ill 
explain why below. 
Mr L told us that he couldnt  remember how PPI had been sold to him. Tesco sent us a copy  of his 
application form. It looks  as though Mr L applied for PPI by post at the same time he applied for his 
credit card. So I think Mr L would have been able to complete that form in his own time and at his own 
pace. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr L would  have known  this PPI policy was optional  and he 
didnt have to buy it if he didnt want  it. I can see that Mr L has ticked a box on the application form to 
say he wanted cover. And from looking at the wording on the form,  I dont think  its likely hed have 
thought the cover was a condition of the card.  So taking everything into account,  I think Mr L would  
have known he had a choice  about whether  to take a PPI policy out. 
Tesco didnt advise Mr L to buy PPI. But it still had to give him enough information about  the cover so 
he could decide for himself  whether it was a good fit for his needs. That information had to be fair, 
clear and not misleading. Having looked at the application form, I dont think  its clear  that Mr L would  
have to pay for the PPI or that hed be charged interest on any premiums  he paid if he didnt repay  his 
credit card balance off in full every month. 
So the question for me now is whether Mr L would  have  acted differently if Tesco  had told him 
everything it should have done. To help me decide what hes likely to have done, Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions  of the policy. And Ive also thought about what Mr L told us about  his personal 
circumstances at that time. 
I can see that if Mr L had to make a claim  on the policy, 10% of his balance would  have been repaid 
for every month he was out of work  up to a maximum of 12 months.  Mr L was entitled to six months 
full pay and six months half pay from his employer  if he became unwell.  So I think  the PPI would have  
paid out for longer and in addition to the means he had in place from his employer.  
When Mr L completed his PPI questionnaire, he told us he had savings worth between  6 and 12 
months of his salary. And when  our adjudicator said she thought  the complaint should be upheld, she 
took this into account. But after our adjudicators view was issued, clarification of Mr Ls savings was 
provided. Comparing  the revised  amount  of savings  against Mr Ls salary, I think  the savings would 
have been the equivalent of just over one months gross pay.
In any event, Mr L told us that he took the credit card out to cover his non-essential expenditure. So it 
looks as though he wanted to keep his savings  intact. And with PPI, he wouldnt have had to use 
those savings  to pay his credit card if he was out of work. 
Mr L said he was in good  health at the time he bought the PPI policy. And so I dont think hed have 
been affected  by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent seen anything  
unusual about Mr Ls employment circumstances  that would have stopped him from making a 
successful claim  if he needed to. 
So with all of this in mind, I think PPI could have been helpful to Mr L if hed lost his job. And although 
I appreciate he doesnt  now remember, Im satisfied he chose to buy PPI  so it looks as though he 
wanted this type of cover at the time. I dont  think Mr L would have acted  differently if hed been given 
more or better information  about  the cover.  
But Tesco will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
Ref: DRN47274824It got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr L about that. Because Tesco didnt tell Mr L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco  has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
what the business provisionally needs to do
If it has not done so already,  Tesco has to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.  Tesco should also pay back to Mr L any extra interest 
he paid because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr L the difference  between what he 
owes and what he wouldve  owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of 
the cost of the PPI. Tesco should also pay Mr L 8%* simple interest if he paid off his credit card at 
some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr L can claim back the tax if he doesnt  pay 
tax.
my provisional  decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco  Personal Finance PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit  share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr L to accept  or reject my 
decision before 3 May 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4727482