K820x#14complaint
Miss F says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital  One) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2011.  The policy was added  to 
Miss Fs credit card account when she applied for the card online. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Miss F disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Fs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Fs complaint because:
 I think Capital One made Miss F aware that the PPI was optional  and that she chose to 
take it  although  I can understand why she can no longer remember  this. Part of the 
online application process was to say yes or no to PPI. This was an automated 
process, and if Miss F hadnt  chosen  yes the PPI wouldnt have been added.  
 Ive taken into account what Miss F said about her work related  benefits. However,  
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss F so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her. 
 Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss F about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it should have  been. But Miss F chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover.  She was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  
and the policy  was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Miss F would have made a different decision if better information  had been  provided. 
On balance I think she would  still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss F to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  9 November 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4742049