K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that PSA Finance UK Limited gave her confusing  information as to the 
termination sum due on her personal  contract purchase (PCP) agreement. 
background
In April 2016 Miss S entered into the agreement to fund the acquisition of a new car. The 
original agreement was based on an annual mileage  of 6,000 and had a termination 
payment of £5,423. Miss S increased  her annual mileage to 11,000 in January 2017  and the 
modification agreement  showed a termination  figure  of £4,477.
In March 2018 Miss S contacted PSA to arrange termination and was given a quotation  
based on a termination figure of £5,423. She had presumed it would be based  on the lower 
figure quoted on the modification agreement. She complained and said PSA was in breach  
of the Financial Conduct Authority guidelines. Her complaint was rejected by PSA and 
subsequently she terminated the agreement based  on the higher figure.  She brought  her 
complaint to this service  where it was considered  by on one our adjudicators.
She sought clarification  from PSA as to its calculations. It said that it had made  a mistake in 
March 2018 when they advised Miss S that the total she needed to pay to terminate the 
agreement was £5,423. It said the actual figure was higher. It explained  the modifying 
agreement showed  a correct termination  figure  of £4,477  but that only applied  to payments 
made from the date the contract  was modified.
When then agreement was terminated  Miss S paid £5,423 in total. However, under the terms 
of the agreement she should  have  paid an additional  £937.  PSA said that as this was its 
error it would  not seek to recover this sum.  The adjudicator checked the figures and was 
satisfied they were correct. 
The adjudicator also considered the wording of the agreement and didnt believe it was 
misleading. Miss S had referred to the sentence in the agreement,  They will then be entitled 
to the return of the goods and to half of the total amount payable under the earlier  
agreement as modified  by this agreement, that is £4,477.44. 
She explained that she took this sentence to mean that this was the agreement she should 
read, and that £4,477.44 was the figure  required to terminate  the agreement. But the 
adjudicator pointed out that term 2 of the modifying agreement states, The new terms set 
out in this agreement will apply from the date of this agreement. As such  she thought  it is 
fair to assume this was the new termination  figure starting from 13 January  2017.
Miss S didnt agree and said that if PSA got it wrong how could she be expected  to 
understand what is right and wrong  and budget accordingly. She said her primary issue  was 
that PSA hadn't adhered  to the FCA guidelines  which required a business to pay due regard 
to the information needs  of clients and communicate  information in a way that is clear, fair 
and not misleading.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN42245042Firstly I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service  is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award  redress where  appropriate.  I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have  the power to make rules for financial businesses  or 
to punish them. 
I have every sympathy with Miss S and I can see that she took the modifying agreement to 
be a replacement for the original. However it didnt  replace it, but rather  it modified it. That 
means the reduced termination figure didnt replace the original figure. The termination  
option comes into force  when 50% of the total sum due is paid and it is clear that at the time 
Miss S sought to terminate the agreement she hadnt reached  50% of the total sum due. The 
modifying agreement makes it clear  that the terms of the earlier  agreement  remain in full 
force and effect
The figure of £4,477  relates to the period from January 2017 when she changed the annual  
mileage. It is only reasonable that, given  she almost doubled the annual mileage, the 
termination figure would be unlikely to decrease. In effect she was reducing the value of the 
car by increasing the mileage. PSA would not wish to end an agreement for a reduced sum 
when the value of the car would be reduced  even after taking into account  her increased 
monthly payments.
While I accept the wording could be clearer I dont consider this means I can uphold  her 
complaint. She has, in fact, benefited by some  £937 from an error  by PSA which  used the 
incorrect termination figure in 2018. I appreciate the issue is one of expectation for Miss S 
and that knowing  now she paid less than she should  when she was expecting  to pay an 
even smaller sum will be of little comfort.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept  or reject my decision before 
7 February 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4224504