K820x#14complaint
Ms P is unhappy because  Assicurazioni Generali  SpA has refused to cover her son, Rs 
post-transplant care following a stem cell transplant.
background
Ms P had a private health insurance policy which she bought in 2016. R was covered under 
the same  plan. The underwriter for the plan at the time covered  Rs blood transfusion and it 
was made  aware  of his need for a transplant. But in 2018, Generali became the underwriter 
of the policy  and declined to cover  the transplant because it was a congenital condition. But 
it continued to cover the blood transfusions same as the previous underwriter.
Ms P said that Generali  should cover post-transplant  care for R as it covered the blood  
transfusions previously. She also said that the transplant itself should be covered for this 
reason. And, Ms P highlighted  that there was no stipulation in the terms about post-
transplant care. Rather, the terms and conditions  remained  the same even though  the 
underwriters had changed.
Generali said because the transplant  itself was not covered by the policy,  anything  following 
the treatment would not be covered either. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  and didnt uphold it. She said this service had 
already addressed in a final decision, most  of the issues she raised.  She reiterated that the 
terms dont cover congenital conditions. She also explained that the transfusions  were  being 
paid for by Generali acting outside  of the terms of the policy.
The investigator also said that any post-transplant care would be as a direct  result of the 
transplant, which wasnt covered. She said Generali didnt act unfairly in declining this claim. 
Ms P disagreed and said the terms hadnt changed. She added  that the doctrine of 
promissory estoppel applies and Generali  cant apply the terms fairly because  it previously  
agreed to cover pre-transplant blood transfusions.
So the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding Ms 
Ps complaint largely for the same  reasons  as explained by the investigator.  Ill explain my 
reasons in more  detail  below.
I note that an ombudsman at this service had already considered  a complaint in a final 
decision dated 5 July 2018.  So I wont be considering  the same  circumstances  in this 
complaint. However,  where necessary, Ill make references to the relevant information  to 
explain my answer.
The industry guidelines under Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) state 
that Generali has a responsibility to handle  claims promptly and fairly. And that it shouldnt 
reject a claim unreasonably. So Ive kept this in mind  when  deciding  the outcome.
Ref: DRN40140792Ms P mentioned that Generali and the previous underwriters actions mean that the legal 
principle of promissory estoppel applies.  The principle, simply put, means that party  A takes  
a particular course of action because a promise was made by party B which  isnt honoured. 
Party A suffered as a result and wants to enforce that promise.  However,  promissory  
estoppel is a doctrine  which needs  to be tested in court.  And whilst I am required to have 
regard to the relevant law, I must consider the specific circumstances here to decide what  is 
fair and reasonable for Ms P, and Generali. So I wont be making  a finding about this legal 
principle in my final decision.
Much of why Generali  acted fairly in declining to cover for the transplant  was explained in the 
previous final decision.  The ombudsman had also addressed why it was fair for Generali to 
act outside of the terms by covering some of the treatment before  the transplant.  Whilst Im 
not addressing  this again, the following  term is still relevant for this complaint:
Human organ transplant procedures  benefit
Transplants resulting  from or made necessary  by congenital conditions  are not covered
Weve already said that Generalis decision not cover the transplant  was fair and reasonable. 
And based on the above term, and the circumstances here, I dont think any post-transplant  
care shouldve been covered by Generali either.  Even if theres no stipulation  of post-
transplant treatments,  the treatment itself was reasonably excluded  under the policys terms. 
So naturally,  it follows  that it would not be fair to expect Generali  to cover anything  related to 
an excluded condition or a treatment that wasnt covered. Generali has no reason to 
continue to act outside of the terms and conditions because of this.
So Generalis decision in this claim was fair and reasonable as it was in line with the policys 
terms, and the guidelines set out in ICOBS.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint and so Im recommending that Assicurazioni Generali SpA 
take no further action here.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4014079