K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that furniture she financed through Caversham Finance Limited, trading 
as Brighthouse,  was faulty  and replaced  with cheaper furniture. She says that despite this 
there was no reduction in the amount she was being asked to repay.
background
In February 2017  Miss M ordered a sofa bed and agreed to pay for it through a hire 
purchase agreement  she signed with Brighthouse.  The sofa cost £1,570.01 and Miss M was 
due to pay £20 each week for 156 weeks under the agreement. But the sofa bed developed 
a fault and was therefore  replaced by Brighthouse in May 2018. Miss M complains that the 
replacement wasnt a sofa bed but a cheaper  corner sofa and shes  disappointed that 
Brighthouse have  refused  to reduce the amount she owes under the agreement.
Miss M later ordered a new chair and when  this proved faulty  it was also replaced  with a 
chair that Miss M said was a cheaper one. Brighthouse agreed to reduce  her weekly 
instalments in recognition of this and the issue now appears to be resolved.
Brighthouse didnt  think they needed  to reduce the payments on Miss Ms contract for the 
sofa bed. They explained that the contract required them to replace goods when repairing 
them wasnt  possible  and when that was the case  they were required to replace them  with 
goods that were  of an equivalent age, condition and general specification . They said the 
sofa Miss M had been given was a brand new sofa and the one it replaced was over a year 
old. They  said the new sofas  selling price  was £1,491.51 which wasnt that much cheaper 
than the original. So they thought theyd done  all they needed to resolve  the problem for 
Miss M.
But Miss M didnt agree  and she therefore referred  her complaint to this service. Our 
adjudicator agreed  with Miss M she explained that a sofa bed wasnt  the same as a sofa and 
as there  was a price  difference  she thought it would be reasonable to ask the business to 
change the agreement to reflect the price of the current sofa which  was £1,491.51.
But Brighthouse disagreed and they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view of this complaint. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN43809862There no longer appears to be a dispute about the price being paid for the chair.  Ive 
reviewed that information and would  agree that Brighthouse have been reasonable with the 
charges they are now making.
Miss M acquired  her sofa under a hire purchase agreement. The relevant law says that it 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Brighthouse are 
responsible and if they couldnt fix the sofa theyd need to replace  it.
The contract Miss M signed said that the replacement  would  need  to be of an equivalent 
age, condition and general specification  and I think thats reasonable. Miss Ms sofa was 
over a year old and I understand Brighthouses point that the replacement was brand new. 
But the replacement  wasnt a sofa bed, it was a corner sofa and I dont think  thats replacing 
the product with one of the same general  specification. I understand Miss M chose the 
replacement but I think it wouldve  been fairer to reduce the instalments to reflect the new 
price and the reduction in functionality.
So I think the fairest resolution would be to re-write the agreement so that the total credit 
provided is £1,491.51 and not £1,570.01.
But I understand that Miss M hasnt  paid anything towards her agreements since  September  
2018 and Brighthouse have therefore decided to terminate her agreements. 
Whilst wed usually expect a business to stop pursuing a debt whilst a complaint is in 
process, we cant insist they do that. Brighthouse  are unwilling to reinstate  the agreements  
so, as thats the case, they should only be pursuing Miss M for the balance of sums due if 
the agreement  for the sofa had been based on total credit provided of £1,491.51.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Caversham Finance Limited 
to re-write the hire purchase  agreement as if credit  provided was £1,491.51.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4380986