K820x#14Complaint
Mrs M, through her representative Mr M, has complained about Invesco Pensions Limited 
(Invesco). She is unhappy that Invesco cant locate  an investment she took out over twenty 
years ago.
Background
Mrs M took out a personal equity plan (PEP) in 1996 with a business which is now the 
responsibility of Invesco. She invested  £6,000 into the Perpetual  High Income Fund.
Mr M, on Mrs Ms behalf, has said that they had previously forgotten about  the investment, 
but in May 2018 he contacted Invesco to find out what  the investment  was worth.  He has 
said Invesco told him the value was around  £20,000 but has since said that the investment 
account cant be located. 
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it shouldnt  be upheld.  She 
was satisfied that Invesco had searched its records extensively for the account under all the 
details, past and present, that Mr M had provided. She also found that when Mr M said he 
was given the value of the investment by Invesco he was in fact only provided  with the share 
price of the fund in question and he had calculated the potential value himself.
Mr M didnt  agree. He felt that because they still held the share  certificate, this proved the 
account still existed  and the investment was still active. He was also adamant that Invesco 
had provided him with the value of the investment. He explained that Mrs M hadnt 
transferred or withdrawn  the investment at any point  and as Invesco couldnt find the 
account this showed Invescos record keeping  was inept  or that Invesco  had taken Mrs Ms 
money.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
It is always difficult to make  a finding  in a situation  like this where no one can say with any 
certainty what has happened.  However, I need to make my decision based on the 
information that has been provided by both parties and decide, in light of that, what  I think  is 
more likely to have  happened.
In this specific situation the information  Invesco has provided is, in my view,  more 
compelling.
Invesco has shown me its internal notes and records which  details the times and nature of 
the contact Mr M made regarding this investment account. I have set this information  out 
below.
1 May 2018, Mr M called to explain the PEP account was held by his wife and he 
wanted to check  it was still in place. Invesco  carried out a search using the details 
Mr M had provided  but couldnt  find any account. In this same call Mr M asked what  
Ref: DRN46363202the current share price  was for the fund in question  as stated  on the share  certificate 
and this was provided.  Invescos  records  state no valuation was provided  because 
the account couldnt be found.
11 May 2018, Invesco  sent a letter to Mrs M confirming that the account couldnt be 
located and stated that if the investment had been surrendered or transferred  away 
more than six years ago then the records would have been  deleted.
14 May 2018, Mrs M provided  further  details in a letter  including previous 
addresses.
15 May 2018, Mr M called Invesco  asking for a valuation of the investment. Invesco 
carried out another search but was still unable to find the account.
23 May 2018, Mr M called Invesco  explaining he had sent in a copy  of the share 
certificate. It is recorded that he felt Invesco must have a record  of the account.  A 
complaint was raised following  this call.
29 May 2018, Invesco  sent out a letter to Mrs M explaining the account could still not 
be found.
1 June 2018, Mr M spoke to Invesco again  when  it was reiterated that no account 
could be found.  At this point Mr M said he had previously been  given  a valuation. 
Invesco explained  to Mr M that this valuation was actually  the share price that he had 
previously asked  for. 
Mr M called later on the same  day when  he spoke to a manager who reiterated the 
fact the account  cant be found.  Mr M was invited  to provide further details  for 
another search to be carried out.
8 June 2018, Invesco sent a letter to Mrs M stating that the account could still not be 
found but if she provided any further details more searches would be carried  out.
13 July 2018,  Mr M called again and it was reiterated that the account couldnt be 
found. He stated he had been given a valuation but again  it was explained this was 
actually the share price  he had been  given  previously. Invesco also suggested that 
he contact the agent  on the account to find out what had happened to the 
investment.
16 July 2018,  Mr M called Invesco again  and another conversation took place about 
the investment.  He didnt agree the account couldnt  be located and therefore felt 
there was a problem  with Invescos  system.  A complaint was raised again following 
this call. The records also show  that Mr M had called later that day asking for a 
current valuation. Invesco reiterated the account couldnt be found. Mr M referred  to 
being given a valuation previously and he was asked where he had gotten this from. 
He stated from the automated valuation service that Invesco provides.
27 July 2018,  a further letter  was sent to Mrs M stating  that further searches still 
couldnt locate  the account. It also explained  that the recording of the call between  
Invesco and Mr M that took place on 1 May 2018 when Mr M says he was given a 
valuation of the account shows that only the share price of the fund was provided to 
Mr M and not any investment value.
Ref: DRN4636320331 July 2018,  Mr M called Invesco again  and questioned why the account couldnt be 
found. He also stated he was given a valuation on 1 May 2018. Invesco agreed to re-
investigate the matter.
10 August 2018, a further letter was sent to Mrs M setting out Invescos findings  
that the account couldnt be located and that the conversation on 1 May 2018 
between Invesco and Mr M only provided  the share price and not a valuation  
because there was no account  to value.
14 August 2018, Mr M called  Invesco upon  receipt of the letter and disputed 
Invescos findings and said he would refer the matter to solicitors.
31 August 2018, Mr M called  Invesco requesting a valuation of the account. Invesco 
explained the account couldnt be found and so a valuation couldnt be provided. 
Mr M stated  he had been given one before. He then asked for the current  share price 
of the fund which was provided to him.
Invescos records also show that before  this call Mr M had tried to obtain a valuation  
through its automated valuation service. Mr M had input the account number three 
times but each  time the system advised it was an invalid account number.
22 October 2018, Mr M called again asking for valuation  of the account. The notes 
state it was explained  to him that the account number provided was out of date. He 
provided further personal details to enable a search. Invesco stated it would search  
under these details.  Mr M then asked for the current share  price  of the fund so he 
could calculate  the value himself.  The notes state  it was agreed in this conversation  
that there was no need to track down the account as he only wanted  the shared price  
which he was provided with.
Again,  the records show that on the same  day Mr M tried to get a valuation of the 
account via the automated service. Again, it seems he input the account number 
three time and again he was informed the account number was invalid.
From these records I am of the view that Invesco  did what it could to try to find the account 
and to help Mr and Mrs M. I am satisfied it exhausted all options and that given everything 
I have seen its very likely  the investment account no longer exists. 
I know Mr M disputes  that he was only given  the share price of the fund rather than a 
valuation but from the information above  I think it can be clearly seen that this wasnt  the 
case. Given the level of detail  in Invescos records and the fact that Mr and Mrs M havent 
provided anything  substantive to contradict this information, I have no reason to dispute this 
information and can only conclude this is an accurate record  of the events that took place  in 
2018 concerning the investment.
I also think the fact that the records show Mr M used the automated  system several times 
and each time it stated  the account was invalid shows that the account no longer exists.
Its also important to point  out that given this fund became non certified in 2001  the share 
certificate wasnt required if Mrs M wanted to transfer it away or withdraw  the monies. So 
while I know Mr and Mrs M have said this never happened given how long ago the 
investment was taken  out and the fact it can no longer be traced,  its not unreasonable  that 
Ref: DRN46363204Mrs M could  have withdrawn the investment some  years  ago and simply just doesnt recall 
this now.
Overall therefore while  I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs M are frustrated that the investment 
cant be located, from everything I have seen I am satisfied that the account no longer exists. 
I am also satisfied Invesco has done all it can to try to locate it and I certainly dont think  
anything untoward  has happened to keep  Mrs Ms money from her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4636320