K820x#14complaint
Miss S took out a Total  Mortgage  Protection plan with a mortgage in 2002. The plan included 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover (PPI), as well as life and critical illness  cover.
Miss S says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. As Miss S has 
only complained  about the sale of the PPI, thats all I have looked into.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Miss S didnt  have  to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. Halifax hasnt been 
able to give us a copy of the paperwork from the time, although this isnt surprising since  
the mortgage and PPI were taken out such a long time ago. But Ive seen the type of 
paperwork Miss S is likely to have completed  at the time and think  this would have made  
it clear the PPI was optional.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover. Although Miss Ss employer would  have 
paid her generous  sick pay, the PPI would pay out on top of this and would be 
particularly useful  when,  after six months, she started to receive half pay. The PPI would 
also pay out for up to 24 months.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss S paid for it. But Halifax has already offered  to give Miss S back some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  I understand  Halifax  has already paid this to 
Miss S.
Ref: DRN46488552my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4648855