K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2004. Mr S says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear  that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this. The PPI 
was sold during a telephone call when Mr S called to activate his credit card. Although  
Capital One doesnt  have a call recording of the sale, it has provided  us with a copy of 
the call script that was used at the time of sale. This call script would have instructed the 
representative to make it clear to Mr S that the PPI was optional  and that his consent 
was obtained  before PPI was applied to the account. I havent seen sufficient evidence 
to suggest that the representative didnt follow the script.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide  if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Capital One has paid some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
When the policy was sold,  Capital One got a high level of commission  and profit  share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  
Capital One didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what hes said about his existing 
repayment provisions  at the time of the sale and the cost of the policy in relation to the 
benefit. But these  points dont change my decision. The PPI policy  would paid out in addition  
to Mr S existing means and the benefit  of the policy  outweighed  the costs.
my final decision
Ref: DRN49778452The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4977845