K822xcomplaint
Miss I and her daughter Miss I(2) complain that Great Lakes  Insurance  SE unfairly declined 
a claim they made on Miss Is travel insurance  policy.
background 
Miss I says she and Miss I(2) were  robbed by three men who said they were armed with a 
gun whilst on holiday abroad in March 2017. Their  handbags  with personal items  and a 
large sum in cash  were taken. Miss I says their hotel gave her a number for the police, 
who told Miss I to go to the station  the next day. She says they had to walk there and then to 
a second station. They were interviewed  and told theyd have to wait several  hours for a 
police report. As they were flying home that evening, they didnt think they had time to do so. 
Great Lakes said the policy  requires consumers to report the loss of items  to the police (or to 
their hotel) within 48 hours.  They must also produce documents confirming the incident  and 
any loss. Great Lakes  said as there  was no official report in this case,  its enquiries  took 
longer than usual.  It had to contact the police and the hotel and wait for replies  to its queries. 
Our investigator noted that the claim wasnt declined until 1 February 2018. She thought  
Miss I and Miss I(2) had shown theyd  been  to a police station. Miss I was given a form to 
complete  which shed given  to Great Lakes. As Miss I and Miss I(2) had to fly home that 
day, she thought it was reasonable that they hadnt waited for a police report  to be issued. 
Hotel staff told Great Lakes they couldnt find a record of the incident.  The investigator 
thought that may be due to the time lapse. She noted that Miss I had said shed have sought 
a report from UK police had she known earlier that the claim would be rejected for the lack of 
a report. She thought Great Lakes should reconsider the claim and pay £100  compensation 
for the delays Miss I and Miss I(2) had faced.
Great Lakes said a serious crime had been committed. Miss I and Miss I(2) had lost items 
and cash worth more than £2,000. It thought they should have called the emergency number 
for the police. In its view, they had time to get a police report  the next day, as their flight 
home wasnt until 7.15pm.  It said it was over three months after the incident when it first got 
the details of the claim. It didnt see how UK police could have assisted. And the police 
service abroad said the crime hadnt been  reported.   
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I said it was for a 
consumer to show that an insured event took place. I thought  it was reasonable for Great  
Lakes to want a copy of a police  report. The policy says a loss must be reported to local 
police or to the policy holders hotel within 48 hours. Either  way, written evidence  from one of 
those parties must be provided. Here, an armed robbery was the cause of the loss, so I 
thought it was fair for Great Lakes to expect to see it was reported  promptly  to the police. 
I noted that Miss I said the robbery happened on the street at around  midnight and that she 
and Miss I(2) then went straight back to their hotel. I thought  it was fair for Great Lakes to 
query why they didnt  make an emergency call, given the seriousness of the crime. The local 
police told Great Lakes  if theyd done so, an officer would have been dispatched. 
I thought Miss I and Miss I(2) may have  been  in shock initially   but that they must  have 
been keen to report an armed robbery in which theyd lost such a lot. I didnt think  there  was 
anything to stop them checking  out of the hotel well before the 10am deadline. They  could 
Ref: DRN42605422then have arrived at the police station  earlier in the morning. I noted that their flight wasnt  
until 7.15pm, so they didnt need to be at the airport until 4.15pm at the earliest. And the 
airport in the city where they were staying is a very short  taxi-ride away. 
Miss I said they walked to the police station - which theyd been told was a short  distance 
from the hotel  then had to walk to a second  police  station. She said it took hours to get 
there, as it was miles away and they got lost. She said they had no cash for taxis. But she 
also said they had over £40 in change. And their cards werent stolen. So I thought they had 
ways to pay for some transport to ensure they reported the crime as soon as possible.  I 
thought they may still have had to wait to be interviewed  but even if theyd then had wait 
for a report, theyd  have had the time to do so. 
Miss I gave Great Lakes  a Voluntary Statement document she got from a police station. But 
it was incomplete and had no official police stamp or signature. I thought Great Lakes could  
reasonably have said that it was up to her to do more  in order to validate the claim. But 
instead it contacted local police to try to get supporting evidence  for the claim.  
I noted that local police could find no trace of a crime being reported by Miss I and Miss I(2), 
despite Miss I having said an officer interviewed them for an hour. The police said there may 
have been a three-hour wait to report the crime. But they said they dont ask someone whos  
reported a crime  to return later for a police report  its issued there and then. A blank 
voluntary report form is issued if someone  decides to go to a less busy police station. But the 
form would  have been signed  and stamped  there. The police  later found a record to show  
Miss I had gone to a police station. They said shed said she didnt have time to file a report.
I could see that Great  Lakes contacted the hotel where Miss I and Miss I(2) had stayed, but 
staff could find no record of the incident. Miss I said that was because of the delay in 
contacting the hotel.  I thought it was also possible  hotel staff just didnt record  the incident. 
But I thought the police  certainly wouldve done so. In my view the lack of supporting 
evidence from the police  was the most  important  issue. I thought  Miss I hadnt been  able to 
show that she and Miss I(2) reported  the crime and their loss  despite  visiting a station.   
I said that in some cases we say its fair and reasonable for an insurer  to deal with a claim 
even when a policy term hasnt been met  depending on the particular facts of the case. 
Sometimes, it just isnt possible for a consumer to get a police report. But I didnt  think that 
applied in this case. Based on the information  Id seen, I thought  Miss I could reasonably 
have been expected to provide  one to Great Lakes.
Miss I said had the claim been declined sooner, shed  have  asked UK police  to intervene.  
She said the police  abroad told her theyd accept  a UK police report sent to them  within a 
year of the incident  and attach it to the original query. She said shed found UK police                                        
werent familiar with that process.  She said she only spoke to UK police around a year after 
the incident took place.  Miss I said that was because it took Great Lakes so long to deal with 
the claim.  So any chance of using the UK process was lost.
I didnt think Miss I had shown that the police abroad  or the UK police operate the process  
shes outlined. But if they do, I thought Miss I had time to ask for it to be put in place. Great 
Lakes file notes  show that one of its advisors  discussed the lack of a full police report  with 
Miss I during  a lengthy call in November 2017. And in a letter  issued on 16 November 2017, 
it said contact with the police may be needed to validate  the claim. That was four months 
short of a year from the incident. 
Ref: DRN42605423I thought that even  if Miss I had contacted UK police then,  Great Lakes was unlikely to have  
accepted such  a report. The UK report would have been dated months after the incident. 
And Great Lakes  required one to be made locally, shortly  after the event. Thats  partly  
because theres more chance of retrieving stolen items shortly after a theft. And a consumer 
normally has a clearer recall of an event at that time.         
In terms of any undue delay caused by Great Lakes, I could  see it didnt get details of the 
claim until June 2017. It then had to make reasonable enquiries of Miss I. Its records  show it 
asked for details from her in July and August 2017. It didnt get a reply  until October 2017. 
Great Lakes then had to ask for clarification. That led to the long discussion between  Miss I 
and one of its advisors  in November 2017.  The call clarified some issues  but confirmed that 
other details  were still required from her.   
I noted that in the meantime, Great Lakes tried to get information from the local police and 
the hotel. The police  didnt reply to its query  until January 2018, two months  after it was 
contacted. Great Lakes declined the claim on 1 February 2018. But it continued  to deal with 
the police, who provided more information that month  and in March 2018. After  that, Great 
Lakes maintained its decline, as no further  details came to light in support of the claim.  
I thought Great Lakes decline of the claim was reasonable. In my view, much of the delay in 
making its decision was outside its control, as others took a long time to reply to its queries. 
But I noted that it apologised to Miss I in November 2017 for delay. I thought Great  Lakes 
had recognised that it could have moved  matters on more quickly, so in my view it was fair 
for it to pay £100 compensation.
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Great Lakes  accepted most of 
them, but it didnt  think it should have to pay any compensation for delay. It said any delay 
was due to the considerable  work it had to put into the case. And it pointed  out that there 
had been long delays on Miss Is part.
Miss I made several points about  my provisional  findings. She said shed never been  asked 
by Great  Lakes about the sum of around  £40 she had in cash on the day she and Miss I(2) 
returned home. It was needed for a taxi to the airport and refreshments. She said shed 
reported the incident to the hotel and to the police as required within  48 hours.  She later said 
the call to the police was an emergency call, but the police didnt come to the hotel.
In terms of the time available to report the incident the next day, Miss I wanted to avoid  a 
late checkout charge,  so she wanted to check out before going to the police station. She 
didnt want to check out earlier than was necessary as her daughter  wouldnt have had 
enough sleep.  Miss I denied ever saying she didnt have time to file a report  - she said didnt 
have time to wait three hours to collect one. She said the fact she had a crime number 
showed a crime  had been reported. Waiting around any longer would have meant she and 
Miss I(2) missed  their flight home.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Is account of events  shows that she contacted the police within 48 hours of the 
incident. If she called the polices emergency  number, its inexplicable that an officer didnt 
attend, given what the police told Great Lakes.  And Miss I cant show thats  what  happened. 
Ref: DRN42605424The police say Miss I doesnt have a crime number and insist that their records  dont show a 
crime was reported  by Miss I and Miss I(2). Miss I obtained an event  number, which seems 
only to confirm that she and Miss I(2) attended a police station.
I can see why Miss I and Miss I(2) wouldnt have wanted to pay the hotels late check-out 
charge. But Im still of the view they could have  checked out early  in order  to get to a police 
station as soon  as possible, given  the seriousness  of what had happened. I think an earlier  
arrival at the station  is very likely to have  minimised  any waiting time.
I think its reasonable to comment  on any issue raised by a consumer or a business that 
seems to be relevant.  I think its relevant that Miss I said she and Miss I(2) had over £40 
cash with them on the day of their departure. A major part of their reason for not getting a 
police report is that they spent so much time walking between two police stations. Using a 
taxi would have  freed-up time to wait for a police report  to be issued. They could always 
have made  the very short journey to the airport  by bus if necessary. And the comment about 
Miss I having said she had no time to file a report (as opposed to having no time to wait to 
collect one) was reported in an email  to Great Lakes by the police. 
Taking everything into account,  I remain of the view that it was reasonable for Great  Lakes 
to expect Miss I and Miss I(2) to provide it with a valid police report. Despite that, in 
assessing the claim, it tried to get details from the police that might have supported Miss Is 
account of events. But the information the police  supplied didnt tally with the account  Miss I 
had given Great Lakes.  So I dont think it was unfair for it to decline the claim.
In terms of compensation for delay, I can see that there were  substantial gaps in Miss I 
providing essential details to Great Lakes.  And many of the details she provided then had to 
be clarified. Great Lakes  had to carry out a good  deal of work to assess the claim fairly. It 
also had to wait two months for the police to respond to its queries. But I remain  of the view 
that there  was some  undue delay on Great Lakes part. 
In November 2017 it told Miss I that a delay in asking her to provide more information  was 
due to the high volume  of claims it was dealing  with at the time. In my provisional findings, I 
said I thought  Great Lakes could have contacted the police more quickly.  Part of the delay in 
doing so may have  been due to the same reason. From its notes, Great Lakes  realised that 
the voluntary report was insufficient as early  as July 2017. So on balance I still think it should 
pay Miss I and Miss I(2) £100  compensation,  as proposed in my provisional  view.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Great  Lakes Insurance  SE to 
pay Miss I and Miss I(2) £100  compensation in total.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I and 
Miss I(2) to accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2019. 
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4260542