K821x#15complaint
Mrs B and Miss B are unhappy with how a claim they needed to make under their home  
insurance policy was handled by Allianz Insurance Plc.
background
In May 2018  Mrs B and Miss B needed  to make a claim under their home  insurance  policy   
following their home  being flooded. Allianz  accepted  the claim. It noted  there  was water 
damage to all rooms within the property. So, the house would need to be dried and then 
reinstated. And some contents  within the property were going to need to be replaced too.
Mrs B and Miss B have said they experienced delays and a lack of contract  throughout their 
claim. This included in relation to the arrangement of alternative  accommodation,  drying out 
works and reinstatement  of the property.  Mrs B and Miss B have explained the difficulties 
they experienced throughout  their claim caused a large amount of stress and upset  and in 
particular to Mrs B. So, they feel it would be reasonable  for Allianz to compensate them for 
this.
Allianz has agreed there were some delays  with the progress of the claim. It said these  were  
as because of a breakdown in communication between Mrs B, Miss B, Allianzs claims 
department, and the contractors it had appointed. Because of this, it offered Mrs B and 
Miss B an amount of £50 compensation, as a gesture of goodwill. 
Following this, Mrs B and Miss B note there were further challenges  with the handling of their 
claim. And because they remained unhappy, they referred their complaint to this service  for 
an independent review.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He thought Allianz  could have 
done more to communicate  with Mrs B and Miss B effectively during the claim. And he said 
the work  to reinstate  the property seemed to have started late  in October 2018, rather  than 
September 2018. And that there  hadnt been  an explanation provided for this. 
Our investigator recommended that Allianz  pay a further £350 compensation to 
Mrs B and Miss B, for the trouble and upset they had experienced as a result of the above. 
This would mean the total compensation  Mrs B and Miss B would receive in relation to this 
complaint was £400. Mrs B and Miss B agreed  with this recommendation. Allianz didnt 
provide a response.
Because of this, this complaint has been  referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint, largely for the same reasons as our investigator.  Ive explained my reasoning  
for this below. 
Mrs B and Miss Bs claim has now been completed and settled. But they feel the time it took 
to progress their claim and the service they received  during the claims process was 
unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN44289152An insurer  has a duty to deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, it should progress as claim 
as efficiently as possible.  Allianz  has accepted  that there were  some avoidable delays in the 
progression of the claim. It has said this was because of a breakdown  in communication  
between Mrs B, Miss B, its claims department,  and the contractors appointed to complete 
the reinstatement works. 
Having the reviewed the history of Mrs B and Miss Bs claim, including  emails,  claims notes  
and copies of reports into the loss, I agree there were delays during the claim. I can see 
there were delays in arranging and placing Mrs B, Miss B and the rest of the family  into 
alternative accommodation. The drying  works at the property didnt start until July 2018  two 
months following  the flood. And there  was a delay in the reinstatement  works at the property 
beginning, which didnt start really  until November 2018. 
Mrs B was contacting Allianz in order to ask chase alternative accommodation for her and 
her family. And I cant see any evidence to show the delay in here was unavoidable. I can 
understand how being in the wet property, from May 2018  until moving out of the property at 
the end of July 2018  would have been  upsetting  and unpleasant for Mrs B and Miss B.
Drying of the property  was completed in September 2018. We asked Allianz for information 
on what reinstatement work was agreed  (via the schedule of works). And why the work at 
the property didnt start shortly after the property  was dry. But it hasnt provided information  
to confirm why this was or provided  the schedule of works to us. 
I can see occasions where Mrs B was contacting  Allianz in order  to ask about the progress 
of her claim  around this time. For example, Mrs B contacted Allianz to ask why there  hadnt  
been any contractors  on site for three  weeks in September 2018. She did the same in 
October 2018  noting no contractors had been present for four weeks. Again,  I havent  seen 
anything to show there was a reason  work couldnt  fairly  progress at that point. So, Im 
satisfied its likely there were avoidable delays in the progress of the claim at this point  too.
 
Allianz has offered  Mrs B and Miss B an amount of £50 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused  by delays it was responsible for. It also noted that it had been difficult  to 
contact Mrs B successfully  and that had caused  some delays too.  
I accept there were times  when Allianz  attempted to call Mrs B, and it wasnt successful in 
reaching her. But I do think  that when this was the case, Allianz could have taken additional  
action to move the claim forward. This policy is held in joint names  with Mrs Bs daughter,  
Miss B, being a joint policyholder. I cant  see any contact notes to show that Allianz  
attempted to contact  Miss B to move the claim along  when it couldnt reach Mrs B. And I 
think that would have been  a reasonable step for Allianz to take to help progress the claim. 
So, I think the customer service provided to Mrs B and Miss B could have been better here.
And I think it would be fair and reasonable to increase the level of compensation provided to 
Mrs B and Miss B. I say this because I dont  think the £50 offered fairly reflects  the trouble 
and upset the above caused. 
Our investigator recommended an additional  £350  compensation would  be reasonable  so 
the total compensation paid to Mrs and Mrs B is £400. Im satisfied this amount is more  
reflective of the level of trouble and upset caused to Mrs B and Miss B. I think it fairly  
recognises the inconvenience  Mrs B and Miss B experienced in needing to chase the 
progress of their claim, as well as the worry about  the lack of progress that they 
experienced. So, I require Allianz to increase the compensation  provided  in this case  by 
£350.
Ref: DRN44289153my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I therefore  require Allianz  
Insurance Plc to pay Mrs B and Miss B a total amount  of £400 compensation. It may be that 
Mrs B and Miss B have received £50 of this already. If so, Allianz  should  pay 
Mrs B and Miss B a further £350  to ensure they receive the full £400.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2020.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4428915