K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Finance (VWFS) is of unsatisfactory  
quality.
background
Mrs P took receipt of a used car in May 2014. She financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS. At the point of supply the car had completed 6,000 miles and was 
nine months old. 
In June 2018, days before the car was due to be collected, it broke down. The root cause 
has yet to be identified  as it will require  an engine strip down but its clear that cylinder one 
has very low compression. The garage has explained the strip down will cost over £1,000  
and if the cylinder  has been damaged the engine will need replacing at a cost of £8,200.
Mrs P says she tried to arrange for the car to be handed back  in March  2018 as she wanted 
to clear her credit file ahead of a mortgage application. But she says VWFS made a mistake  
with the collection  instructions  and the collection needed to be re-arranged. So she says its 
unfair to expect her to cover the repair costs on the car as VWFS delayed  collection.
She was also disappointed to notice  that at the end of the hire term VWFS had debited a 
£75 option to purchase fee from her account. She said she didnt approve this.
VWFS said that they were only responsible  for faults that occurred at the point of supply and 
as Mrs Ps car was over four years old when the fault occurred it was clear the fault wasnt 
there from the beginning and they couldnt  assist  any further. And they explained that the 
£75 option to purchase fee was payable whether the car was purchased  by Mrs P at the end 
of the term or not.
So Mrs P referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  her opinion. 
She explained that Mrs P wouldnt be able to hand back  the car in March and that she would 
need to have completed a voluntary termination  (VT) if shed wanted to return  the vehicle. 
She understood that VWFS  had sent Mrs P the VT forms  but that shed not returned  them.  
So she couldnt  say a collection had been  arranged  earlier. She went on to consider whether 
the engine faults that now presented themselves  were there from the beginning. But she 
noted the car had done an additional  44,000  miles  whilst in Mrs Ps care and she thought the 
faults would  have become apparent earlier if they were developing at the point of supply so 
she didnt think this was the case or that VWFS  needed to take any further action with regard 
to the repair.
She went on to consider  the option to purchase fee. She noted that the finance agreement  
said:
To exercise the option to purchase  the vehicle, you must add the Option to Purchase  Fee of 
£75 to the amount of the final payment
So she didnt think it was reasonable to ask Mrs P to pay an option to purchase  fee when 
she hadnt invoked that option. The car belonged to VWFS.
Ref: DRN46542162Mrs P didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion. She insisted shed  tried to return the 
vehicle earlier and she hadnt received the VT forms. She added that because VWFS hadnt 
told her to SORN the car off the road shed now incurred additional expense  insuring  and 
taxing it. And she said there  were  known faults  with this particular engine that the 
manufacturer was aware of.
And VWFS didnt agree entirely with the adjudicator either. They  said that it was a common  
misunderstanding that the option to purchase  fee was only payable  if a customer  wished  to 
purchase the vehicle  but that wasnt the case and this was clearly set out in the finance  
agreement. They said the fee was charged in line with UK law and regulation.
So the complaint was referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
Mrs P acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
But VWFSs  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
Mrs Ps car broke down 44,000 miles and 49 months after she took receipt of it. The car will 
need its engine  stripping  down in order for a proper diagnosis of the root cause of this 
problem and that will cost over £1,000. Given the time thats elapsed since  purchase and the 
miles covered I think it was for Mrs P to demonstrate  that the faults that are now apparent  
were there at the point of supply and I dont think Ive been presented with enough evidence 
thats likely  to have  been the case. I havent for instance, been provided with a report by an 
independent expert  and I note the adjudicator suggested, in her view of 29 February 2019, 
that was an option Mrs P may wish to consider.
I think if the fault was developing  at the point of supply  then there would have been signs of 
failure earlier. But Ive reviewed the maintenance  history and can see that no related issues  
have been recorded.
Ref: DRN46542163Mrs P has suggested that the problem is an inherent one in this sort of engine  but I can see 
that the adjudicator has explained  there have been no recalls for engine  faults  on this vehicle 
and I think this would have been likely if thered been an inherent problem.
So I dont  think theres sufficient evidence this vehicle was of unsatisfactory  quality.
was a hand back organised
Ive reviewed VWFS communication log and can see that VT forms were sent to Mrs P at the 
correct address on 29 March. The letter explained that handback was only possible after 7 
May 2018 but she could VT. Forms were  supplied but Mrs P didnt return  them.
Im satisfied that its most  likely  this letter was sent to Mrs P. I say that because its clear  the 
address was the same as the one shed received previous letters  at. 
I can also see from that log that Mrs P called  VWFS on 23 April 2018 and discussed  a 
handback. The notes  say that the process was explained along with the need  to keep the car 
tax and insured.
So its clear that at this point, a few months  before the car broke  down, Mrs P had signalled 
an intention to hand the car back and was aware of the VT process if she wanted  to end the 
agreement early. Im persuaded that its most  likely she chose to handback the car in June 
rather than VT earlier and therefore the fault happened at a time when Mrs P was willingly in 
possession of the vehicle and the collection hadnt  been delayed by VWFS.
I dont think it would  therefore be fair to suggest there was any delay in the handback that 
meant VWFS should take responsibility for the repairs.
additional expenses
I also dont think it would  be fair to suggest VWFS had a responsibility to tell Mrs P to SORN 
the car and its part of the terms and conditions that the car must  be insured. So I dont think 
VWFS need  to take any further action in this regard.
the option to purchase fee
I dont agree that the terms and conditions  of the finance agreement explained that the 
option to purchase  fee was due if the vehicle was handed back.  It said:
To exercise the option to purchase  the vehicle, you must add the Option to Purchase  Fee of 
£75.00 to the amount  of the final monthly payment 
Its clear that Mrs P didnt  exercise her option to purchase and as thats the only point at 
which the contract suggests the fee is added then it wouldnt seem fair to charge it.
Ive not seen evidence that Mrs P was aware of a need to pay the fee if she handed the car 
back. That doesnt appear to have been  communicated to her.
Ive seen the various arguments that VWFS have raised about why they should  be allowed 
to charge the option to purchase fee but none of them have changed  my mind as I dont 
think it would  be fair or reasonable  for them to make  a charge when, in my opinion,  the terms 
and conditions only explain it will be added if the vehicle is purchased.
Ref: DRN46542164my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to refund to Mrs P the £75 option to purchase fee.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4654216