K822xcomplaint
Miss Ms representative Mr J, complains on her behalf about issues she faced when trying to 
add funds to a currency card issued  and administered  by R. Raphael & Sons  Plc.
background 
Miss M took out the card before  she went  abroad  on a six week holiday. At the time she was 
told she could add money on the card in several different ways  such  as in store,  online or 
over the telephone. 
After three weeks of the holiday  she needed to top up the balance  on the currency  card.
She tried to top up online, but it didnt go through and she tried again. Neither of the 
transactions went through, but she noticed that the funds had been taken out of her bank 
account.
She then called Raphael to find out what had happened. She also wanted to see if she could 
top up the card, because she only had limited  funds left to travel with and still had three 
weeks of her holiday remaining.
She was told there had been an error with the online  top up method and she should use 
another method to top up the card. She explained that shed already tried the bank transfer  
method, but this hadnt worked. She then tried doing  the reload over the telephone. The first 
attempt didnt go through because her bank didnt authorise the release.
Miss M then gave authorisation to her bank and tried again. This time the transaction failed 
because the payment cards billing address  didnt  match the records with Raphael.  A total of 
nine transactions  were  attempted on the phone, but they all failed. Raphael changed 
Miss Ms address details after the seventh payment attempt to try and get the payment to go 
through, but this didnt resolve the issue either.
Miss M got back in touch  with Raphael and told them that they were  holding her funds from 
the failed attempts to top up the card. She was told the funds would be returned to her 
account within 7 days, but she wasnt happy with this delay. Raphael said if she got the 
authorisation codes  for the transactions  from her bank then they would get in touch with her 
bank and let them know that they wouldnt be taking the funds from the reload  attempts.  
Miss M did this and got back  in touch with Raphael  with the information they requested.  
Raphael have said they sent a fax to her bank, but the funds werent released for around 
another 10 days. Due to this Miss M was left without  funds and had to borrow money  from 
family to carry on the holiday.
Raphael then opened a complaint about the service Miss M had received which they upheld 
and offered £100 compensation for. They contacted Miss M by email and asked her to 
respond within three days if she accepted their offer. They didnt  receive a response  so they 
closed the complaint.
Miss M got in touch with Raphael around  five days after the complaint was closed. She 
explained that she was still travelling and didnt have access to her emails.  She didnt accept 
their offer of compensation and expressed  concern that the complaint had been closed so 
quickly.
Ref: DRN40166962Miss M then referred her complaint to this service  where it was considered  by one of our 
investigators. The investigator upheld the complaint. She thought Miss M wasnt  made 
aware that the reload  attempts would result in further funds  being  ring fenced. And she was 
caused stress and frustration by being given different information about what was needed to 
release the ring fenced funds. She thought Raphael should pay compensation of £250 for 
the trouble and upset theyd caused  Miss M.
Raphael accepted her findings,  but Miss M disagreed. She thought, in summary:
She was never told the online top ups failed  due to security  problems, she was only 
told this was an issue for the telephone  top ups. 
The online top ups should have been  available  to her as that is how the card was 
advertised.
She was never told that the card became blocked for trying to top it up.
The outcome  was insufficient  due to the magnitude of stress Raphael  had caused. 
Her holiday became  very stressful, tiresome and was completely ruined until she was 
able to borrow money from her family.
She understood the need  for security  procedures  but the fact the address was 
incorrect wasnt her fault. She entered  her details  when she took out the card, so the 
error was the fault of Raphael as the final details were entered  when collecting the 
card instore. 
The fact that Raphael opened a complaint  without informing her and then also closed 
it was out of order. She should have been made  aware this was happening  so she 
could have had time to respond, and then when she replied they did not respond 
which caused more  distress.  
The investigator replied  and said, in summary:
Shed  asked Raphael about  the issues with online  top up. They  explained they had 
some intermittent  issues at the time, but the problem was later resolved.
She understood most  of the problems Miss M experienced  came  about because the 
online system  wasnt available, but she would expect a business to offer viable 
alternatives if one of their systems failed, and Raphael did this.
She didnt doubt Miss M had been  through an extremely stressful experience.
She agreed Raphael  could have addressed the situation better  but didnt think they 
were responsible for the failed top ups. She though the address information  was 
captured correctly,  but the layout  didnt match what was held by Miss Ms bank and 
that was why it failed security.
She thought  Raphael  entered the address in the layout that they did based on the 
information Miss M gave. They also tried to alter the format of the address to try and 
help and get the top up to work.
She didnt have the authority to say it was wrong for Raphael  to close the complaint 
without Miss Ms consent.
Miss M didnt agree. She said, in summary:
She still felt Raphael didnt offer a viable  solution  to the issues with the online top up. 
She understood they offered telephone top up, but even if it had worked  it would 
have still limited the amount she could have loaded on the card.
Ref: DRN40166963The fact the layout was incorrect should  never  have happened, and it would have  
been entered incorrectly when she collected the card from Raphael. Shes had her 
account for several years and has never had the issue with the address format being  
incorrect.
She agreed that the processes Raphael followed could have been done a lot better 
as it should of never have got that far.
She wasnt querying the business  practices regarding  the complaint but more  of the 
fact that the complaint was closed  without being  resolved.
The investigator wasnt minded to change her opinion, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ive taken into account Miss Ms submissions about what happened  at the time. I hope she 
doesnt take it as a discourtesy that I dont reply to every point she has made. The purpose 
of my decision is to explain my findings  on the issues I consider  key in the complaint.
I appreciate that Miss M is unhappy  that she wasnt able to top up the card online as 
advertised. She called  Raphael and they offered other methods to top up the card such  as 
telephone top up and bank transfer, neither of which seem unreasonable  suggestions,  even 
for a card Miss M intended  to deal with online. 
Miss M attempted to top up the card over the phone  as this was the quickest way to get 
funds on the currency  card.  Unfortunately,  this method didnt work due to the issue with the 
format of her address.  Miss M thinks  this is Raphaels fault but from what  Ive seen they took 
reasonable steps to resolve the issue  they asked her to confirm with her bank exactly  how 
her address  was recorded so they could match this on their systems and they changed  the 
format of how her address  was input. 
I note Miss Ms point that the complaint was closed  too soon but Raphael reopened the 
complaint as soon  as she got in touch  which  seems fair and doesnt appear  to have caused 
Miss M any detriment.
There are however, areas where  I think Raphael should have  provided  better  service.  
Miss M is unhappy with the limits that applied to the telephone top up method. I note that 
these limits didnt apply to the bank transfer method,  but this wasnt  made clear to her when 
she spoke to Raphael.  
Raphael also didnt  make  Miss M aware  that further failed attempts could result in the funds 
being requested  from her bank account  being  ring-fenced. And she was given  different  
information as to what she needed to provide  to get the ring-fenced  funds  released,  meaning 
she had to make a number of calls to try and get the situation  resolved.
Its clear that the situation was very stressful for Miss M and I dont disbelieve what  shes 
said about the impact  it had on her at the time.  She was mid-way through a holiday, couldnt 
access her funds and she had to spend  a lot of time and effort  trying  to get the situation  
resolved.
Ref: DRN40166964But while there are areas where Raphael could have  provided better service, we must  
recognise that things  do go wrong  from time to time and from everything Ive seen here,  
Raphael did take steps to try and resolve Miss Ms problem. So, in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I think that the £250  offer is fair compensation for the shortcomings in service 
Miss M received.
my final decision
My decision  is that R. Raphael & Sons  Plc should  pay Miss M £250  for the reasons Ive 
explained above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Miss M to accept  or reject  my decision before  18 September 2020.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4016696