K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the delays U K Insurance Limited (UKI) made  in repairing his van 
after a claim on his commercial motor insurance  policy. He wants  compensation for the 
resulting loss of earnings.
 
background
Mr Gs van was taken for repairs and he expected these to take two to three weeks.  But it 
took around eleven weeks for the repairs to be completed. Mr G said he was told six times 
that the van was about ready  but further repairs were then needed.  He said hed lost 
business because  of this as hed booked this time out. UKI paid Mr G £350 compensation for 
the delays. But Mr G also wanted compensation for lost earnings on the days when hed not 
booked any work in. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  UKI had 
caused some delays in carrying  out the repairs. But he didnt think loss of earnings was 
covered by the policy. So he thought UKIs offer of £350 compensation for the delays was 
fair and reasonable. 
Mr G replied that he didnt think this was a fair outcome.  He said hed been  messed  around, 
let down and caused stress and anxiety by UKIs  level of service. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from UKIs file that there were delays  in Mr Gs van being returned to him repaired. 
The repairing  garage caused the first delays by not ordering  the required parts for 13 days.  
UKIs agreed  that this was an avoidable delay. Then  the parts  took some four weeks to 
arrive, but I cant reasonably hold UKI responsible for this. 
Then UKI investigated  why the van wouldnt start. This was found to be not accident related 
so, from what  I can see, Mr G paid the repair cost and the garage paid for the diagnosis. I 
think that was fair and reasonable.  And I also think it was fair and reasonable for UKI to 
investigate this concern  before returning the van. So I dont think this delay was avoidable. 
Mr G said he was told six times that his van would  be ready  for collection. He said hed then 
not booked in work to allow him time to clean  and return the replacement  van and to collect 
his van. He said he was then told with one or two days  notice that the van wasnt  ready. So 
he said hed lost potential  work. He also said his equipment was damaged  as he couldnt 
secure it in the hire van and he had to hire replacements. 
UKI considered Mr Gs complaint about damage to his tools.  It said Mr G couldnt provide 
evidence that the hire van had caused damage to his tools. So it declined  the pay for this 
cost. I cant see that Mr G has provided  any further  evidence for it to consider. So I cant  say 
its decision was unreasonable. 
UKI agreed  that Mr G had been inconvenienced  by being told his van would be ready for 
collection when it wasnt. It considered this alongside the delays, lack of updates  and its 
overall level of service and offered Mr G £350 compensation for his trouble and upset. 
Ref: DRN41819982I can see that Mr Gs policy doesnt cover loss of earnings. So I dont think  UKI has acted 
unreasonably in not offering Mr G further  compensation  for this. And I think UKIs  offer of 
compensation has already taken into consideration the inconvenience caused by the van not 
being ready when Mr G was told it would be. I think UKI also reasonably considered  Mr Gs 
stress and anxiety. So I think UKIs offer of compensation is fair and treasonable in the 
circumstances. Its in keeping with what Id ward in similar circumstances. And so I dont 
require it to increase  this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4181998