K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Bank of Scotland plc gave them incorrect  information  about their 
business currency account and did not tell them about the margin in its foreign exchange 
rate.
background 
Mr and Mrs T opened a euro foreign currency business account in 2014.  They  wanted to sell 
a property and receive  the money  into this account.  They tried to deposit the money  in April 
2018. They  said they had been told by Bank  of Scotland  that the account was running and 
that there  would be no charges for making  a planned transfer into the business  sterling  
account. The funds  were not initially applied  to the account as it had been  made  dormant. 
And when  they were  Mr and Mrs T were then told that there would be a two per cent margin 
included in the exchange rate used to transfer the funds from euros to sterling.  Lloyds paid 
them £500  for inconvenience  and £1,657.01  to reflect the exchange rate loss made  during  
the delay. It has offered  them  £60 for call costs.
The adjudicator did not recommend that it do anymore.  He said that:
-It had taken a number of calls from Mr and Mrs T to Bank of Scotland before the 
dormancy block had been removed and the money credited. There was no evidence  
Bank of Scotland had told them before that their account had been made dormant.
-He could not resolve what they were told when  the account  was opened. But he said 
that the margin was part of the exchange rate that Bank of Scotland  offered to 
customers. It was entitled to use its commercial discretion to set this. He said that the 
margin was set out on its website.
-They were aware  of this charge and decided  to use a foreign exchange broker  to 
achieve a better rate of exchange.
-The evidence he had seen  showed  that the exchange rate was more favourable on 
the day they converted the money (14 May 2018) compared  to the day it should  have 
been credited  (26 April 2018). That meant that Mr and Mrs T got more in pounds  
sterling compared to what they should have when  they wanted  to convert the money 
originally.
Mr and Mrs T did not agree. They were  told that there was no charge for transfers between 
the accounts. Bank of Scotland was the expert  here and they could not know  about this 
margin if they were not told of it. They think  the margin is a charge. And that the part of the 
website the adjudicator referred to is not relevant as it does not apply to a business like 
theirs which is a micro enterprise. They did not benefit from a better rate as they planned to 
leave funds in the account to wait for the rates to be more  preferential. Because  of the 
difficulties they took all the money out at once. This has caused them  anxiety which is 
heightened by Mrs Ts health  issues.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant know exactly what was said to Mr and Mrs T when the account was opened. But in its 
final response Bank of Scotland  says that it accepts  that when they called  more  recently it 
did not tell them that the account was dormant.  And that they were  not told about the two 
percent margin.
Ref: DRN48304792The screen shot they have provided from a Bank  of Scotland mobile  app says that there is 
no charge for transaction  charge  for transfer  of funds between business  current account 
and other  accounts. I dont agree that did or was intended to refer to any margin  Bank of 
Scotland included in the exchange rate it offers. And I agree with the adjudicator  that it has 
the commercial discretion  to set this rate. So I dont  think  that there was any error in the rate 
it offered to Mr and Mrs T.
There was clearly a loss of expectation on their part. But knowing about the rate they 
decided to convert the money elsewhere. I appreciate that they say that had they known in 
advance they might have  negotiated a sales price  for their property in sterling.  But there  is 
no guarantee they could have done  this and received more sterling then they eventually  did. 
I think it likely that had they understood the position in advance  they would have still looked  
at alternatives.  They said they paid a fee of 0.7 percent to the foreign currency  broker  which 
was £1,319.50.
In their letter to this service of 4 July 2018  they said that they wanted  to transfer the funds to 
the sterling account straightaway and this seemed  to be for urgent purchases. They  have 
clarified that they wanted to leave  a large portion in the account to wait for the rates  to 
become more preferential. I cant take account  here of possible speculative  gains and it was 
still their choice to transfer the full amount even taking account  of the earlier  difficulties.
The adjudicator has shown evidence that they did not make an exchange  rate loss during 
the period before the money was converted and transferred. Mr and Mrs T have not disputed 
those figures. This means Bank of Scotland has already paid them for a loss that they did 
not apparently  incur.  It has also made  them what I consider to be a generous  payment for 
distress and inconvenience. In my view having looking at this element in isolation to me this 
was fair to reflect both the personal  circumstances  they describe, the anxiety about not 
initially knowing what had happened  to their money  and the inconvenience  of making 
alternative arrangements for the conversion including  visiting branches and making calls 
about this. Bank of Scotland also said that the payment of £60 for call costs  remains  open to 
them.
Because of what I said about there  being no evidence of a loss, Bank of Scotland has 
already paid more  than I would otherwise have awarded. So I wont  be asking it to do 
anything more. Mr and Mrs T should contact Bank of Scotland directly  if they now wish to 
accept the further  £60.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I dont think that Bank of Scotland plc 
needs do anything  more to settle  it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4830479