K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Allianz Insurance Plc deducted  two excesses from his pet insurance 
claim. My references to Allianz  include its agents.
background
Mr Rs dog had surgery to have  two lumps removed from his chest. Mr R claimed for the 
surgery and histology  report costs.
Allianz accepted  the claim but deducted  two £100 excesses from the settlement. It said the 
removed lumps were diagnosed as two different conditions and as the policy  said an excess  
was payable for each  illness two excesses  applied to the claim.
Mr R complained to us. He thought it unfair for Allianz to deduct two excesses  when the 
illness claimed for was masses on chest and one operation removed  both lumps.  Mr R also 
complained that Allianz hadnt  responded to his complaint. Allianz subsequently agreed it 
had given poor service  and paid £75 compensation for Mr Rs distress  and inconvenience,  
which he accepted.
Our investigator thought Allianz had acted unfairly in deducting  two excesses as there was 
one operation to remove  the two lumps.
Allianz disagrees and wants  an ombudsmans decision. It said a consumer often didnt know 
a diagnosis until their pet had been  operated on and tested  and the policy definition of vet 
treatment covered all aspects of treatment.  Also,  Mr R had the opportunity to establish what 
conditions were present  before surgery as the vet offered either removal  of the lumps  or 
needle collection of the lumps cells to diagnose.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr R accepted Allianzs offer of compensation for its poor service I wont consider that 
aspect of his complaint.
My decision  is about whether its fair and reasonable for Allianz to deduct two excesses in 
the circumstances of this claim, and I dont think it is. I uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The certificate of insurance says that for claims for vet fees Mr R will pay the first £100 of 
veterinary treatment for each unrelated illness or injury.
The policy definition of vet treatment includes any examination, consultation, advice, 
diagnostic procedure, surgery  and nursing  carried out by a vet required to treat an illness.
The policy definition of illness  includes any change(s) to a normal  healthy state,  sickness,  
disease, defects  and abnormalities.
Mr Rs vet wrote on the claim form that the claim was for masses in chest. An operation  
removed those two masses.  The histology  report ultimately diagnosed one mass was a 
lipoma (a fatty lump) and the other was low grade  soft tissue  sarcoma  (cancer). 
Ref: DRN45031152Where a pet is treated for separate medical conditions we generally say an insurer can 
deduct an excess for each condition, if thats  what the policy  provides.
But in this case the issue causing  the claim was the two undiagnosed  masses. Given the 
policy definition of illness I think its reasonable for the masses to be defined  as the illness  
for this claims costs. There  was one operation  to remove the two lumps  and from the 
evidence Ive seen  a large majority of the costs claimed would have been incurred if one or 
two lumps had been removed.  
The claim doesnt include different follow up treatment for the two different types of lump.  If it 
had then I might well have  said Allianz  could have  applied  separate excesses to the part of 
the claim where treatment  differed for two different conditions. But that isnt relevant to the 
costs in Mr Rs claim. 
Whether or not Mr R had the alternative opinion of having the diagnosis by cell removal  by 
needle rather than an operation isnt relevant. Mr Rs vet didnt recommend one procedure  
above the other and Mr R didnt act unreasonably  by choosing the lumps removal  by 
surgery.
I note Allianz referred to two cases where it thinks  our investigators opinions  supports its 
position. But those  cases dont have an ombudsmans decision, and in any event I decide 
whats fair and reasonable on the individual circumstances  of a case.
In this case Im satisfied that it isnt fair for Allianz to apply two excesses for Mr Rs claim.  It 
must refund one of the £100 excesses, plus interest  as Ive detailed  below, to Mr R.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Mr R £100 to refund  one excess. Interest must be 
added at 8% simple a year from the date the excess was deducted to the date of settlement.  
Allianz Insurance Plc must make payment within 28 days  of the date we tell it Mr R accepts 
my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019. 
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Allianz Insurance  Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mr R how much its taken  off. It should also give 
Mr R a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4503115