K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about the transfer  value provided to him by Phoenix  Life Limited 
(Phoenix) for his pension plan. Mr G complains the amount transferred was about £11,000 
lower than he and his adviser  had been told to expect.  This has impacted his retirement  
pension.
background
Mr Gs had a retirement annuity contract  with Phoenix.  This provided a guaranteed basic  
annuity payable  at retirement.  It was a with-profits plan so it accrued annual  bonuses which 
once added to the plan couldnt be taken away.
When Mr Gs pension was set up a specified  retirement age would have been put in place. 
In 2017 Mr G deferred his retirement  date from 2017  to 2019 and the benefits for his pension 
were altered  to reflect that.
Mr G met with a financial adviser  who obtained  information about Mr Gs pension policies  
including the transfer value of his Phoenix policy. In 2018 Phoenix quoted a transfer value of 
about £55,000. 
Mr Gs financial  adviser recommended that his pension  policies  should  be consolidated into 
an income drawdown arrangement with another provider. 
When the transfer went ahead in May 2018  the amount paid to the new pension provider 
was about £11,000 lower  than the figures previously quoted to Mr B.
Mr G was unhappy with the amount transferred. He complained and asked Phoenix to pay 
the difference between the quoted values and the actual amount transferred.  
Phoenix said that the higher transfer values quoted at the end of 2017 and in 2018  were 
wrong. It explained the mistake had been  made  as a result of human error which had 
resulted in Mr G being quoted a higher value than the policy  was actually worth.  The actual 
value of Mr Gs pension  was the lower amount  paid out on transfer. Phoenix apologised for 
its error and its customer service and made an offer of £300 for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr G and sent the compensation directly to him.
 
Mr G did not agree with Phoenixs offer and referred  his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and asked the business for more  information about 
why it said the earlier  figures quoted were the incorrect ones. Phoenix explained that the 
wrong information had been input into the system it used to calculate the transfer  value and 
this had resulted  in an incorrect,  higher  value.  
Phoenix also explained in broad terms how the transfer value had been calculated. 
The adjudicator looked at the details of the income offered by Phoenix and the relevant 
annuity rates  offered on the open  market at the time. She took into account the relevant 
average rate and felt the transfer value paid out was in line with expectations  at the time. So 
the adjudicator  didnt  think the transfer value seemed unreasonable.  
Ref: DRN46074462The adjudicator was satisfied that an error  had been made by Phoenix when it quoted 
incorrect transfer values.  .She considered how to correct that error  and put Mr G back  in the 
position as if the error hadnt occurred.  The adjudicator didnt think paying  Mr G the wrong 
amount quoted to him previously would correct the error made by the business.
The adjudicator considered the recommendations made by Mr Gs financial adviser prior to 
the transfer being made. She wasnt persuaded that Mr G would have acted differently if he 
had been given the correct quote  as she didnt  think the recommendation was reliant on the 
value of this pension plan. The adjudicator also took into account that after Mr G and his 
financial adviser had been informed of the mistake  and given the correct transfer value, 
Mr G still decided to go ahead with the transfer.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr G had been  caused  trouble and upset  by the incorrect 
quotes but felt that the £300 offered was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Mr G disagreed and was concerned that the transfer  value paid to him was incorrect. He 
also felt £300  was insufficient compensation. Mr G explained he had gone ahead with the 
transfer as he was worried the value  of his plan would reduce further. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G had a retirement annuity pension plan. This plan gave him a guaranteed basic annuity 
amount and accrued bonuses.
Mr G received regular statements from Phoenix giving him the current value of his plan. 
In December 2016 he was given a value of around £44,000. Next to the value it said clearly 
in bold letters:
This value  is not guaranteed. 
In March 2017 he was given a current value of around £43,000. Again next to the value it 
said in bold that this value  wasnt guaranteed.  
In March 2017 Mr G asked Phoenix  to delay the retirement age on his plan to 67. He was 
sent a confirmation of that change to his plan.
In October  2017, following  an enquiry from Mr G, Phoenix provided him with a transfer value 
quote of around  £53,000. 
In December 2017 Mr G received  an information letter from the business  together  with a 
retirement information pack.  The letter gave  a current  value  for his plan of around  £53,000  
with the same proviso that the value wasnt guaranteed.
 
In January 2018 Mr G was provided with a transfer  quote of around £55,000. This was 
referred to in the letter as an estimated transfer  value.
Ref: DRN46074463The business says the transfer  values given to Mr G in October  2017,  December 2017 and 
January 2018  were  incorrect. They  say this is because the wrong  information  was put into 
their system. 
The business has clarified that the sum assured  and the term of his pension  plan were  
incorrectly inputted.
I can see that a change to the selected retirement  age (and therefore the term of the pension  
plan) and the sum assured took place  in May 2017. This was after Mr G had applied to defer 
his retirement age by two years to 2019.
Before that change to the plan, the transfer  values quoted to Mr G were reasonably close  to 
the transfer value he actually received when he transferred  his benefits to a new provider in 
2018. This tends  to support what the business  has said that incorrect  values  were  inputted  
resulting in an incorrect quote being provided.
I also agree  with the adjudicator that the annuity rates used  by Phoenix appear to be in line 
with rates  at that time. We dont provide an actuary  service but we can look in broad terms at 
the way the business  has calculated the transfer  value. Overall  Im not persuaded on 
balance that Phoenix has incorrectly calculated the transfer value of Mr Gs pension  plan.
So whilst I do sympathise  with Mr Gs position  I am not persuaded it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to ask the business to pay the difference in values.  As the adjudicator has 
explained that wouldnt be putting  Mr G back in the position as if the error had not occurred.
I am also not persuaded that Mr G would have taken a different course of action if he had 
been given accurate quotes at the end of 2017 and beginning of 2018.  I agree with the 
adjudicator that the recommendations made  by his adviser were  not reliant on the value of 
this pension plan.  I consider this is supported by the fact that Mr G was informed of the lower 
value during the transfer process and he still decided to go ahead with the transfer. 
I note G has said to the adjudicator that he went ahead with the transfer as he was 
concerned that the value of his plan might drop further. But I have to consider whether 
having the correct information  would have made Mr G take a different course of action. I take 
into account that before the transfer was completed  Mr G was given the correct  information. 
So, overall I not persuaded on balance it would have  changed  his decision. 
However I am satisfied  that Mr G was given incorrect information by the business  at the end 
of 2017 and beginning of 2018. I note these values  were quotes and not guaranteed. But I 
consider they gave  Mr G an expectation  over a number of months  of receiving  significantly  
more for his pension plan.  So I think it would  have been extremely disappointing for Mr G 
when he was informed  of the actual  value. 
I also take into account that this plan formed part of his pension planning as Mr G was 
reaching retirement. I consider the amount  he received  for his pension plan would have been 
important to Mr G. 
So I do think  Mr G was caused trouble and upset  by the incorrect quotations. I also note the 
business initially informed  him that his complaint was being  investigated when  it hadnt  yet 
been passed to the correct department for investigation.
Ref: DRN46074464However I think £300 is fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused  to Mr G. 
Fortunately the incorrect quotes spanned  a number of months rather  than years  and I note 
the business informed Mr G of the correct amount before the transfer was completed so he 
could decide whether  he still wanted to go ahead. I also take into account  that the business 
apologised for its error and offered  compensation  at a fairly early stage in the process.
So overall I consider  £300 is fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset  
caused to Mr G. 
If Mr G hasnt received the payment from the business (as set out in its final response letter) 
or if Mr G didnt  encash any cheque for that compensation provided by the business, then 
the business should now pay Mr G the £300.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against Phoenix  Life Limited for the 
reasons outlined in this decision. I consider the offer made by Phoenix Life Limited  for the 
trouble and upset  it caused Mr G is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4607446