K821x#15complaint
Miss D had a motor insurance  policy with Calpe Insurance Company Limited in 2017. She 
says it wrongly settled a claim  partly  against her due to not investigating an incident properly.
background
Miss D says on 26 November 2017  she was on her usual route home  from work  and was in 
the third lane of a bypass when another driver started to move into her lane. She says she 
moved to the right and avoided any impact but sounded the cars horn.  She says the driver 
of the other car shouted abuse, then drove  off, but had to stop at the next set of traffic lights.  
She says she and her sisters got out and went to speak to him. Further  abuse took place. 
Miss D and her sisters (or friends in the car behind)  took photos and made short video  clips.   
Miss D thought that was the end of the matter,  but in December 2017 Calpe told her the 
other driver had reported the incident. His insurer told Calpe he said Miss D had moved  into 
his lane, causing damage to his car. Miss D gave Calpe her account and in January 2018 an 
independent engineer inspected her car. He found light  accident  damage to its passenger 
side that he thought would cost around £950 to repair. Miss D told him the damage  was pre-
existing. She says he told her that the other driver didnt  have  a strong  claim.  
Miss D heard nothing  further until 1 June 2018. Calpe then told her it had decided to settle 
the claim with liability  split equally between the parties. Miss D said it should investigate  the 
incident properly  and asked why CCTV footage hadnt been sought.  Calpe said the damage 
to both cars was consistent with a collision.  It also said a photo Miss D had provided showed  
her car at an angle, so Calpe thought she was trying to change  lanes.  Miss D said she was 
in the correct lane for her usual exit. She said the other driver was in the wrong lane to get to 
the motorway, which is where he drove off to. She also asked for evidence of the substantial  
damage to the other car. Miss D was being  asked to pay for half of it under  her £3,000 all 
sections policy excess. 
In its response to her formal complaint, Calpe relied  on the damage to Miss Ds car and the 
photo of it at an angle that it thought indicated she was changing lanes. It said it thought  a 
court would find each  driver equally to blame, as there was no independent evidence.
After Miss D brought her complaint to us, one of our investigators issued  a view upholding it. 
She didnt  think Calpe had all the evidence  it had asked for (and needed)  before  it decided 
to settle the claim. She couldnt see anything to show that Miss D had mentioned CCTV 
footage until June 2018, by which time it wouldnt have been  available. Bur she noted that 
Calpe didnt get the other drivers full version of events, or access  to his car, or even a full 
engineers report.  She said Calpe didnt get even the approved  repair invoice for the car until 
June 2018  yet it had agreed to split liability  in April 2018. And she said the photo of 
Miss Ds car at an angle wasnt  taken at the scene of the alleged incident. 
As there was no agreement I reviewed the complaint and issued a provisional decision as 
follows:
Under the policy Calpe is entitled to settle any claim  as it sees fit. We dont  interfere with an 
insurers right to do that as long as it can show it acted reasonably. Part of that means 
carrying out an investigation thats  appropriate - depending on the nature  of the incident - 
and assessing  all the evidence before reaching a conclusion.  
Ref: DRN44606692It seems  Calpes  decision was based on two factors. One was the photo of Miss Ds car at 
an angle, which it thought showed she was trying to change lanes. I dont think  thats correct,  
and I think it shows that Calpe didnt consider Miss Ds account  of events carefully enough.  
It seems  Calpes  file notes are incomplete, given that its not possible to say from them how 
Miss D first got her version of events  across to it. Theres no document from her before the 
accident report form. The claims  handler  said hed spoken to her once or twice, but those 
conversations arent referred to or recorded in the claims notes. And Calpe hasnt been  able 
to give us a copy  of the call recording when Miss D first spoke to an advisor.  
Whats certain is that when Calpe contacted the other insurer in January 2018 it said Miss D 
had told it there was no collision, but that the parties had spoken after the near miss. Miss D 
says the photo  was taken when the other  driver had to stop at the next set of traffic lights  
following the incident. I think its highly unlikely that Miss D didnt describe all this when she 
first told Calpe what had happened. And her account makes  sense. The photo shows the 
cars near the traffic lights, several feet apart.  Miss Ds car is well within  her lane. The parties 
can be heard arguing on the brief video clips taken at the time. The photo was taken after 
the incident, in line with Miss Ds account.  Yet no-one took any photos  of the alleged 
damage to either car. I dont think it was reasonable for Calpe to conclude that the photo of 
her car showed Miss D was likely to be at fault for the alleged accident.   
Part of Miss Ds account of events was that she was already in the correct  lane when the 
incident happened, but the other driver wasnt. She said he drove towards the motorway,  so 
I assume he should have  been in her lane.  Calpe didnt get an account  of events from the 
other driver.  So Miss Ds account  wasnt contradicted by a plausible  alternative version of 
the incident. And the chance  to get a further view of what the photo shows  was lost. 
Calpes other reason  for holding  Miss D partly at fault was that it thought  the engineering 
evidence showed  consistency between the damage  to her car and that to the other car. The 
file shows that Calpe suggested  settling  the claim with split liability  on 22 February 2018. In 
the same  email it asked  for the other  drivers accident report form and his sketch of the 
incident, plus details  of the damage to his car. So at that point  Calpe had very little 
information about the claim, yet it offered to settle it. The other  insurer  later accepted the 
offer, but didnt  ever provide further  details  from the other driver. And it seems from Calpes 
file that it didnt get the full engineers report setting out the damage  to the other  drivers  car 
until January 2019. That was after wed asked  for a copy of it several times.
Calpe seems to have settled the claim based  on a brief assertion by the other  insurer that 
Miss D changed lanes, plus the engineers  inspection of her car in January 2018. The 
engineer noted  that there was a lot of pre-existing damage to Miss Ds car. She insists that 
all of it was pre-existing.  The relatively  small amount of damage to her car that he thought 
was newer was only to the door and the front wing on the passenger  side.  The damage  to 
the other car was later shown to be all along  the drivers side.  The estimated  cost of repair 
was roughly four times that of Miss Ds car.  
Cars involved in collisions dont  always sustain a similar amount of damage,  but Miss D 
always maintained  that there was no collision. She queried why Calpe had accepted that her 
car could  have caused so much alleged damage, yet sustained  so little damage  itself. I dont 
think that has been explained at all.
Ref: DRN44606693We asked Calpe for comments from the original engineer about the consistency between the 
two sets of damage   especially  given the comments Miss D said hed made to her at the 
inspection. Calpe said its own engineer had seen  both of the other  engineers reports. He 
thought the damage was consistent. Its not clear when he made  that assessment, but it was 
well after Calpe  decided to settle the claim as it did. Calpe  said the original engineer  wasnt  
likely to have made  any comment about  the damage  not being consistent,  as he hadnt  seen 
the other car. But I dont think we can be sure he made  no comments. 
Its not possible to say for certain whether Miss D asked Calpe at the start to look at the 
CCTV coverage of the scene of the incident,  as Calpe cant  provide the first call or the initial 
email from her. But I think its more likely than not that she did. Miss D knew the location was 
covered by CCTV due to an earlier  family  incident where the police used  the footage. 
Theres a record of Miss D mentioning CCTV evidence  in June 2018 when Calpe told her it 
had decided to settle the claim. Until that point, there had been no contact from it since  
January 2018.  So I think  it was reasonable  for Miss D to have assumed the claim had been 
closed. She thought Calpe had dismissed  the other drivers account  due to the CCTV 
footage. So there was no need (or opportunity) for her to mention it again  until June 2018. 
I dont think it was reasonable  for Calpe to offer to settle the claim when  it did or to go ahead 
with the settlement based on the evidence it had at the time. Even if Miss D didnt mention 
CCTV coverage, I think it should have checked  whether  there was any. She was sure there  
was no collision. As the incident took place on a very busy  road at a major roundabout, 
where CCTV cameras were likely to be present, it would  have  been  the best way to resolve 
the dispute. Theres no guarantee that cameras would have captured  what happened,  but 
they might  have done so, which would have avoided any further dispute about it.  
I also think it would have  been reasonable for Calpe to have held out for an engineers  report  
about the other drivers  car and to then have sought  its engineers view about the 
consistency of the damage at the time.  And I think when the claims handler spoke to Miss D 
he should have  queried the photo of her car at an angle and recorded what  she said. It was 
a major issue in settling  the claim, yet Calpe seems to have it misunderstood what  it shows.  
As I think  Miss Ds complaint should be upheld, she should be put back  in the position  she 
would have been in had she not been held partly liable for the claim.
It seems  Miss D hasnt paid Calpe any of the sum it asked her to pay. But the records will 
show that she had an accident for which she was at fault, plus the outlay on it. I think  that 
should be corrected,  including on the motor  insurance central database,  the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange  (CUE).
I think Miss Ds no claims discount (NCD)  should  be adjusted  as appropriate. And I think 
Calpe should  pay her compensation for distress and inconvenience.  I think  she was very 
frustrated by not being told what its intentions  were, as that prevented her from querying the 
evidence early on. She was also upset and confused  by Calpe settling the claim without 
completing an adequate investigation . 
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Calpe didnt comment. Miss D 
accepted the decision.  She said the reason she was keen  from the outset to get hold of the 
CCTV coverage was because she was so sure shed done  nothing wrong. She also said the 
delay in dealing  with the case  from November  2017  onwards had been  stressful, so further  
compensation should be considered.   
Ref: DRN44606694my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the compensation payment Ive suggested  adequately reflects the time it took Calpe 
to deal with the claim, given that it was disputed. I dont think  it took an undue amount of 
time to deal with Miss Ds complaint.  Calpe isnt responsible for any delays after that date. I 
appreciate that having the claim and the complaint dealt with by Calpe, and then having  to 
refer it to this service, has been stressful  for Miss D. But I dont think it would be reasonable 
for me to require  Calpe to pay more compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance  Company Limited 
to do the following:
Amend the record  of the claim (including  on CUE) to non-fault with NCD allowed
Send  Miss D a letter confirming that has been done and stating that the outlay on the 
claim was paid in error  
Advise Miss D in writing  that she isnt required to pay any part of her policy  excess
Adjust Miss Ds NCD as appropriate
Pay Miss D £250  compensation  for distress  and inconvenience 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 February  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4460669