K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) has not acted correctly 
since she asked it to downgrade  her account from a Select Premium account (SP) to a fee 
free current  account.
background
Miss M took out a fee paying Advantage Gold Account (AGA) in October 2002. NatWest  
migrated this to a Select Platinum Account (SPA)  in July 2015.
In May 2017  Miss M complained about  the sale of the AGA. NatWest upheld  her complaint 
and refunded all the account fees for the AGA  and the SPA account from October 2002 to 
May 2017.
Miss M says that in May 2017 she asked to downgrade  from the SPA to a fee free account 
and she says that NatWest has not actioned her request correctly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Miss Ms complaint.
In my view Miss M has been  clear that she has two complaints as follows:
1)She says NatWest has not downgraded  her from a fee paying  packaged bank 
account to a non fee paying current account.
2)She says NatWest has charged her fees which  she was not expecting  and didnt act 
appropriately when  she got into financial difficulties.
To be clear, this decision is only about complaint  1 above which  NatWest  has fully 
investigated, was the subject of our adjudicators view and I can give a decision on. This 
decision is not about complaint 2 and I will explain later what  I think needs to happen on that.
complaint 1
From October 2002 to May 2017  Miss M had a packaged bank account with NatWest. A 
packaged bank  account is one where  additional  services come with the bank account itself.  
In this case the AGA  and the SPA provided  services like travel  insurance, mobile  phone  
insurance, car breakdown cover, warranty cover, purchase protection,  and better deals on 
overdrafts, mortgages  and other financial  products.
In order to get these  services the account holder  has to pay a monthly fee which ranged 
from £6 to £16 a month over time in the case of Miss M.
An ordinary current account does not provide these services and there is no monthly charge 
for them. However an ordinary current account  does come with terms and conditions  which  
can include  that if the account  goes  into overdraft with or without the banks agreement,  then 
the customer can incur a charge. There can also be terms  around other charges including  
for transactions that fail due to insufficient funds.
Ref: DRN44309062Ive looked at the evidence that NatWest  has provided, and in my view the account that it 
moved Miss M to in May 2017 was not a packaged bank account as there were no services 
provided and no charges  for them. The account she transferred to was an ordinary current 
account with no charges  whilst it was in credit and terms and conditions  that applied  charges 
in certain situations  when  overdrawn.
So in my view NatWest  did transfer  Miss M from a packaged bank account with fees for 
services to a current account with no fees for services as she requested.  And I cannot 
uphold her complaint  about this.
complaint 2
My understanding of Miss Ms second  complaint is that she thought she wouldnt incur any 
fees or charges of any description on the account  she transferred to in May 2017. And she 
says the fees and charges she received put her into financial difficulties when she could not 
work due to illness from May 2018.
In my view NatWest has not looked into this or provided evidence  such as any record  of the 
discussion about the new account in May 2017  or any correspondence  that followed.  It also 
hasnt provided  any evidence about  its knowledge of or response to Miss Ms changing 
circumstances in May 2018.
So I couldnt  make  a decision about this and it will need to be the subject of a separate 
complaint from Miss M to NatWest. If once NatWest  has considered this aspect of the 
complaint, it is unresolved  it can then come to this service for consideration.
my final decision
My final decision is that NatWest did downgrade Miss M from a fee paying packaged bank 
account to a non fee paying current account  in May 2017 when it was asked to by Miss M 
and I do not uphold her complaint about this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 June  2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4430906