K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC stopped  a cheque  he had made payable to his friend.
background
Mr C holds an account with Lloyds. He used cheques 51  54 from his cheque book without 
experiencing any problems. But when he tried to use cheque 55 it was returned unpaid.  Mr 
C doesnt think Lloyds  had reason to stop this cheque. He said it was written from a current 
and valid cheque book.
Mr C said when cheque 55 was stopped it caused him embarrassment.  The cheque  in 
question had been payable to his friend  to whom  he owed  money.  In efforts  to ascertain  why 
the cheque had been stopped both he and his friend  travelled to a Lloyds branch. Mr C said 
this caused him difficulties  because hes disabled with various health problems. When Mr C 
arrived at the branch  the manager  contacted  the cheque clearing department to query what  
had happened. They werent  able to speak with that department that day. So they contacted 
Mr C once they had been able to do so and told him that the cheque had been returned 
unpaid because it had been reported as lost or stolen.
Mr C wasnt happy with this because he was in possession of the cheque  book from which  
cheque 55 had been written. So he raised  a complaint. After Lloyds investigated what had 
happened it said this problem was caused  because in 2012 Mr C asked it to close  his 
account. He later changed  his mind and asked  Lloyds to re-open  his account. Lloyds did 
what Mr C wanted and, so, he kept the same account number and sort code.
Mr C didnt receive a cheque book after his account was re-opened. So, in June 2013, he 
raised a complaint about this with Lloyds. This led to Lloyds stopping the cheque  books  it 
had issued prior to Mr Cs account being  closed. The cheques that were cancelled  by Lloyds 
were numbered from 54 to 105. Lloyds said it ordered Mr C new cheques, which  started at 
number 1. Given the passage of time since Mr Cs account was re-opened, the cheque book 
in use now contains  some of the same cheque numbers as the cheque books that were 
cancelled in 2013.
Lloyds apologised  for stopping Mr Cs cheque and told him it had removed the stop on his 
cheque book. It compensated him £50 to recognise the trouble and upset  he had been 
caused. It also reimbursed his return taxi fare to the bank. But Mr C thought  Lloyds should 
pay more compensation  given  what happened. He also thought  Lloyds should compensate 
his friend  to whom  the cheque was payable.  He said his friend experienced financial 
difficulties as a result of Lloyds stopping the cheque. So he brought  his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Cs complaint  and, while they empathised with him, didnt 
think Lloyds needed  to do anything more here. They thought the compensation already  paid 
was appropriate  and fair. And they told Mr C our service couldnt  award  compensation to his 
friend. But Mr C disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  that what  Lloyds 
has offered to put things right here is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN42493242Lloyds has accepted it was responsible for the cheque being  stopped.  So the only issues  for 
me to decide  are whether  Lloyds should  do anything more,  or offer further compensation to 
Mr C. Lloyds has already paid him £50 plus his return taxi fare to compensate  him for the 
impact of what happened. Its clear that Mr C doesnt think  thats sufficient to recognise the 
stress and upset he was caused. 
In thinking about whats fair in the circumstances, Ive considered things  from both sides.  I 
realise that it must  have been frustrating  and inconvenient Mr Cs cheque  to be stopped.  He 
doesnt have internet  banking. So, he relies on cheques to be able to make payments to 
people. And I can understand that the unpaid cheque caused him embarrassment,  distress 
and inconvenience.  But Lloyds didnt stop this cheque deliberately to cause inconvenience to 
him. 
The reason  why cheque 55 was returned  unpaid relates to Lloyds cancelling cheques  
numbered from 54-79 in June  2013 after Mr Cs account was reopened. And although Mr C 
was using a current  and valid cheque book, cheque 55 was stopped by Lloyds because it 
had the same number  as those within a previously cancelled cheque  book. Mr C thinks 
Lloyds shouldnt issue cheque books containing cheques with the same  numbers as those 
previously issued  especially  where those cheque  books have been cancelled.  And he isnt 
happy that Lloyds didnt  tell him he had invalid  cheques in his possession. But I think  it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to issue cheque books  containing the same number as the cancelled  
cheque because it had cancelled and stopped the previous  cheque  books. Im not 
persuaded that it had any reason to think this would cause problems for Mr C. He had been 
issuing cheques from his new cheque books without issue  until earlier this year. And so Im 
not persuaded this problem could reasonably have been foreseen by Lloyds until it occurred.
Ive considered whether Lloyds acted fairly once it was made aware of the problem. From 
the evidence Ive seen, it didnt delay  or protract matters when it tried to put things right here. 
It was candid  and fair in its explanation of why cheque 55 had been stopped.  It accepted  
responsibility for what had happened. And I can see it reinstated his cheque book within four 
days of Mr C bringing matters to Lloyds attention. I think this all shows that Lloyds 
proactively responded to Mr Cs concerns. I also think its unlikely this problem will occur in 
the future  due to the actions Lloyds  has taken here.  And Im pleased to see that Mr C has 
been able to pay his friend.
Mr C feels hes been unfairly  treated by Lloyds because, as a result  of the cheque being 
stopped, he said he had to attend  his branch. He told us that he has restricted  mobility and 
suffers from ill health. And he feels hes been  treated  unfairly due to his disability. 
I can appreciate that attending his branch would have been difficult for Mr C given his health 
issues but I also have  to bear in mind that he didnt have to visit a branch. He hadnt been 
asked to attend by Lloyds  and decided to travel there  on his own volition. Mr C feels  the 
bank didnt make reasonable adjustments prior to his arrival  at the branch. But it couldnt  
reasonably do so because it didnt know he was intending to attend.  And I have to consider 
that other  options  were available to resolve  what happened such  as discussing the matter 
with Lloyds over the telephone. Notwithstanding  this, I think Lloyds  acted fairly here by 
agreeing to refund the cost of Mr Cs return taxi fare. This recognises the out of pocket 
expenses Mr C has incurred in attending  his branch.
Had Mr C spoken with Lloyds prior to attending the branch Im persuaded that it would have 
tried to assist him by offering alternative options of making the payment he had wanted  to 
make to his friend. I say this because Lloyds informed him of these alternatives once it was 
Ref: DRN42493243aware of the problem.  Mr C declined these  alternatives as his preference was to pay by 
cheque. But I think Lloyds has demonstrated here that it did what it could to try to minimise 
the impact the stopped cheque had on Mr C. And Im also persuaded that if Mr C had 
telephoned Lloyds  prior to attending  his branch he would still have declined  to pay his friend 
using alternative  banking methods. So, it follows that I dont think  Lloyds could have  done  
anything more to try to assist Mr C. 
Lloyds has paid Mr C £50 plus his return taxi fare to compensate him for the impact  this 
stopped cheque had. Its clear  he doesnt think this adequately reflects his inconvenience 
and experience. Hes told our service he spent  more than 3 hours on the telephone in trying  
to resolve this complaint. And he feels Lloyds should  compensate him a further  £50-£75 to 
recognise that time. But while  Mr C feels he can charge  for his time our service doesnt 
generally award compensation for the time a consumer incurs  in resolving a complaint. And 
Im persuaded that whats already been  paid is a reasonable  amount to compensate Mr C for 
the worry and trouble  he was caused here.
I understand that when Mr C contacted  Lloyds  over the telephone he did so using an 0345 
number, which can be quite expensive.  And I can see that Lloyds offered to reimburse Mr C 
for any call charges he had incurred  in discussing his complaint. Before compensating him 
for these  though  its asked to see evidence documenting any charges incurred. I think  this is 
reasonable and I cant  fairly criticise Lloyds for requesting this evidence. I understand that Mr 
C hasnt been  able to provide this. It follows that Im unable to make an award  for any call 
costs to be reimbursed to him in those circumstances.
Mr C also wants  Lloyds to compensate his friend for the trouble  and upset they were caused  
when the cheque was stopped. But this complaint is between Mr C and Lloyds. And as our 
investigator told Mr C our service isnt able to consider the impact  this situation had on his 
friend because they arent a party to Mr Cs account  with Lloyds or this complaint. It follows  
that I wont be directing  Lloyds to make a compensation award  in favour of Mr Cs friend.
I realise all of this has been  very upsetting for Mr C and Ive carefully considered everything 
hes said. But I think Lloyds has dealt with this complaint fairly and done  all it can to resolve  
this dispute. I think  that once it was aware of the problem it acted promptly  and correctly. 
And I cant fairly ask it to do anymore. I think the compensation  that its already  paid Mr C is 
a reasonable amount that reflects  the impact this problem has had on him.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4249324