K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain on behalf of a trust of which they are trustees  that HSBC UK Bank  
Plc made unreasonable requests for information and closed their business account  leaving 
them without funds  for several weeks.
background
The trustees have  held a charity  account with HSBC  since 2006.
In January 2018 HSBC asked the trustees  to provide information as part of its safeguard 
initiative. Amongst other things, HSBC  asked the trustees to provide a full copy  of the trust 
deed and information about  the trustees personal  assets.
HSBC has said that the account was closed because the trustees  failed to provide  the 
information it requested.
The trustees say that they provided  a full copy of the trust deed but wanted to know  the 
reasons why HSBC  required information about  their personal assets before they provided 
this. 
The trustees are unhappy that they were  denied access to trust funds  for several  weeks 
following the closure of the account. They seek compensation.
HSBC has offered compensation of £150  to reflect the fact that the complaint handler didnt 
address all of the issues which the trustees had complained about.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said HSBC  was within its rights to request 
information, including information about the trustees. The investigator  found that the trustees 
hadnt provided the requested information and that because of this HSBC was entitled to 
close the account immediately.
The trustees didnt  agree. They said they had been given a short time to provide information 
about their personal  assets. They also said they had never  refused  to provide the 
information but had wanted HSBC to respond to their questions before they provided it. The 
trustees also said they had not been  the original trustees of the trust and they wanted HSBC 
to clarify whether  they were the correct people  to ask for the information. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that HSBC wrote to the trustees about  its safeguarding initiative at the end of 2017. 
The letter explained that information was required which would need to be provided within 60 
days. 
I understand that the trustees had an interview with HSBC on 8 January 2018 where 
information was provided. Following this, HSBC sent a letter  to the trustees asking for further 
information and warning that the account would be closed if the trustees  didnt respond. I 
understand that a second interview took place  on 7 March 2018, following which HSBC 
asked the trustees  to provide a full copy of the trust deed.
Ref: DRN48156952It was at this point that the trustees complained. They felt it was unreasonable for HSBC to 
ask for the full trust deed and this would be costly  and time consuming to provide. HSBC 
repeated its request for the full trust deed  and this was provided by the trustees.
On 21 March 2018 HSBC asked the trustees to provide further  information  about the 
charitys assets and the trustees personal  assets.  It asked for this information to be provided 
within 7 days and said it may have to close  the account if the information  wasnt  provided.
I can see that the trustees responded to HSBC and said they wanted answers to their 
questions before they provided the information.  On 10 April 2018  HSBC wrote to the trustees  
and said the account was being closed on 3 May 2018.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account including the policy  document.  These  
say that the bank is allowed to close the account  immediately  if it has reasons to believe  that 
the account holders have placed the bank in a position where it might break the law. In this 
case, the request for information was made so that the bank could comply with regulatory  
requirements. 
Because of this Im satisfied that the bank  was entitled to close  the account  without giving 
any particular notice  period.
I appreciate that the trustees  were hesitant  to provide information about their personal 
assets. But by virtue of their role, the trustees  are inextricably  linked to the trust. I dont think  
it was unreasonable for HSBC to ask for this information. And because the trustees  didnt 
provide the information within the timescale specified, Im satisfied that HSBC was entitled to 
close the account.
Ive taken into account what the trustees have said about being given a short time to provide 
information about their personal assets. Ive looked  at HSBCs letter dated 21 March  2018. 
This asks for details  of what the trustees do for a living and the approximate  value  of their 
savings and assets. The letter also asks for the approximate value of trust assets. On 
balance, I dont think that seven days was an unreasonable period of time to provide the 
information, particularly  as it was only approximate valuations which were sought.
Even though  the request  for information  was made on 21 March 2018, it wasnt until 8 June 
2018 that the account was closed. So the trustees had a period  of much longer than seven 
days within which to provide the information requested.
I appreciate that the trustees  wanted to know why the information was required. And I 
understand their reluctance to provide the information whilst their questions  remained 
unanswered. The bank could have  handled the complaint better and I think  this is reflected 
in the offer of compensation already made.
Ultimately however, HSBC was entitled  to request the information and the trustees  were  
obliged to provide it. Because  the information  wasnt provided, the bank was entitled to close 
the account.
I appreciate that there was an impact  on the day to day operation  of the trust as a result  of 
the account being closed,  and that the trustees were caused a degree of inconvenience. 
However, I cant fairly ask HSBC  to pay compensation for closing the account because it did 
so in accordance  with the terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN48156953my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4815695