K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that the vehicle  she acquired through  a conditional sale agreement  
financed by PSA Finance UK Limited  wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject  the 
vehicle and end the agreement without  her needing to pay anything further.
background
Miss A tells us she acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as H in May 2018. She 
says the vehicle was supplied with a 12 month  warranty.  In early February 2019 she states 
that she reported issues with the brakes making  a lot of noise and the steering vibrating. She 
says this was the second time shed  encountered problems - the first occurring when shed  
only had the vehicle for about a month or so. She states that the vehicle was booked  into Hs 
garage for repairs on 9 February. But H subsequently refused to do the work. Ms A further 
complains that she was subjected to abuse  by a member  of Hs staff. 
PSA said there was no information to show the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.  It said that following Miss As complaint the vehicle had been due to be 
diagnosed by H. But due to an incident, H declined to speak further with Miss A. PSA said it 
advised Miss A that under the terms of the vehicle warranty  she could have the vehicle 
diagnosed by a different garage - and repaired if necessary. But that shed not done so. 
Instead, it said shed  asked to close the complaint and had said shed  be escalating the 
matter through  solicitors.  PSA stated that Miss A had stopped making payments after 
February 2019. And the vehicle had now been repossessed.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said shed not been  
supplied with information to show what the issues with the vehicle were. And as the 
complaint had been raised more than six months after supply there was nothing  to confirm  
that the vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Miss A didnt accept  this and said she didnt think that all her complaint had been fully 
investigated. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint  an ombudsmans  been  asked 
to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Miss A was disappointed  with her vehicle. Unfortunately,  with used vehicles its 
more likely that things  can go wrong. And it seems thats what  happened here.
Im aware that there were  several aspects to Miss As complaint but our investigator  has 
already explained were  limited to what we can look into. So I cant investigate that part of 
the complaint  about the alleged conduct  of Hs staff.  H isnt a party to the complaint and PSA 
is only responsible  for the quality of the vehicle supplied. 
Miss As conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer  credit agreement and our 
service is able to consider  complaints  relating to it. PSA supplied the vehicle so its 
responsible for complaints about the quality of the vehicle. 
Ref: DRN45022252I dont apply the law - directly - but I take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act of 2015 (CRA).
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Miss A acquired the vehicle in May 2018.  Although  she complains that there were issues 
with it within  a month or so from supply Ive not seen anything  to show  this. And I infer the 
vehicle was satisfactorily repaired - as the next complaint to PSA wasnt  until February  2019.
Miss A says the vehicle was emitting a noise from the brakes and the steering was vibrating 
- and Ive no reason to disbelieve that this was the case. But Ive not been supplied  with any 
information to show why this was happening.  And if it was due to the vehicle not being  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Or possibly  the result  of failed repairs. The vehicle 
was booked into H and due for a diagnostic test on 9 February.
Unfortunately, a dispute arose between H and Miss A about the use of a courtesy vehicle. 
Im not commenting on the details of that as it doesnt affect  my decision. But I understand 
that the result was that Miss As vehicle was returned to her - but the keys remained with H. 
And the diagnostics werent carried out. 
Ive seen notes  recorded by PSA and a copy of the Final  Response Letter (FRL)  it sent to 
Miss A on 28 March 2019. This shows that Miss A was advised  that the vehicle could be 
taken to any VAT approved garage for diagnostics and repairs if necessary. The FRL goes  
on to state that Miss A declined  to do so and had instead stated she wanted  to close  the 
complaint.
Later PSA notes  that in early May 2019 Miss A phoned to say she wanted to reject the 
vehicle. And its further recorded that the finance  agreement was terminated in July 2019, a 
default recorded and the vehicle was repossessed.
When the vehicle  was reported as showing further faults, in February 2019, this was more 
than six months after the date of supply. So in order for me to say that PSA should be 
responsible for any repairs - or to accept Miss As rejection of the vehicle - it was necessary 
for Miss A to show the vehicle hadnt been of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  Or 
that any earlier repairs had failed and that the reported issues  were  due to this.
Other than Miss As description  of the faults  Ive seen no information  to show what  was the 
cause or if it meant the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. Ive seen  nothing  
to show earlier repairs have failed.  In the absence  of such  evidence  it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable to say that PSA shouldve had the vehicle repaired or accepted Miss As 
rejection of it.
As monthly  payments werent  maintained  it was reasonable for PSA to terminate the 
agreement, default the account and repossess the vehicle.
In summary,  theres nothing to show that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point 
of supply. Nor that PSA acted unfairly  in its actions to terminate the agreement and 
repossess the vehicle.  Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN45022253my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4502225