K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains EQUIFAX  LIMITED failed to protect his personal  data.
background 
In May 2017  Equifaxs parent company was the subject of a cyber attack and the attackers 
gained access to some of Mr Cs personal details.  Equifax told him the details included  his 
name, date of birth, username and password, secret  question  and answer  and part of his 
credit card number. It offered him a number of free services to monitor his credit file for any 
unusual activity. 
Mr C said that a number  of attempts had been  made  since 2014 to fraudulently access  his 
account although none had been  successful. He said he was at particular risk due to his 
occupation and that Equifax should pay for his security costs. He wants all his personal data 
removed.
Our investigator said that if Mr C could  show hed suffered any financial loss due to these 
attempts she would  expect Equifax  to reimburse  him for the losses.   And she thought 
Equifax should  pay him £500  for the trouble  and upset itd caused.  Equifax agreed.
Mr C was unhappy about this. He said Equifax didnt have permission to process his data so 
he wants it to remove all the data it holds in his name. And he wants £50,000 compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute Equifax hasnt handled Mr Cs personal data properly so we would expect 
it to make good any financial loss hes incurred as a result. So I have to decide  two issues. 
Has Equifax done enough? If not what more should it do?
Mr C said there have  been a number of attempts to fraudulently  access  his bank account  
since 2014. But I dont  have sufficient evidence there was any data breach by Equifax until 
May 2017. And I havent  seen sufficient  evidence that Mr C has suffered  any financial loss 
as a result  of this breach.
Unfortunately Equifax  cant give Mr C an assurance this wont happen in the future. But its 
offered him a number of free services to monitor his credit file and I think  thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. If Mr C suffers any financial loss in the future as a result of 
this breach he can make another  complaint  to Equifax. And we would expect it to make good  
any loss to him. 
Mr C wants Equifax to delete all the information it holds on him. Because Equifax is a credit  
reference agency its entitled to hold personal  information on behalf of banks and other 
financial organisations. And for those reasons we cant  ask it to delete  Mr Cs details. 
Equifax has explained to him the reasons  why its holding  his data. I know  he doesnt accept 
the explanation its given  him but I cant ask it to do more.
Ref: DRN44694132Mr C says theres been an increased  risk to him and his family.  But as our investigator 
explained that would be a matter for the police. And although I cant recommend  Equifax pay 
towards Mr Cs security  costs Ive taken account  of the increased distress this has caused 
him in coming  to a decision about  compensation.
We take an overall view of the impact on a consumer of any mistake  made  by a financial 
organisation. We dont  fine or punish that organisation. With a data breach thats the role of 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) which, as Mr C has pointed  out, recently  fined 
Equifax a considerable sum for this breach.
In coming to my decision Ive taken account of the fact that the compromised data included  a 
number of security details. Although I know Mr C wont  be happy with my decision I agree 
with our investigator that £500 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for the 
trouble and the stress Equifax has caused  him.
my final decision
My decision  is that in full and final settlement  Equifax must
Provide Mr C the free online services  its already  offered. If he wants  to take these out 
with another provider  it must cover  the costs for this.
Pay Mr C a total of £500 for the trouble and upset its caused him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4469413