K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that MBNA Limited  placed  restrictions on his credit card accounts. It also 
refused to extend  the promotional interest  rates on those accounts.  
background
Mr K had some credit card accounts with MBNA. As part of a security review  it conducted  in 
May 2018 following an application for a new credit  card, MBNA discovered Mr K had an 
address and borrowing with other lenders that it hadnt previously known about. It 
consequently declined the credit  card application and told him it would be restricting 
spending on all his existing accounts.
Mr K asked MBNA whether it would continue to offer promotional  interest  rates on his 
accounts, or whether hed be offered a reduced  interest rate once the existing promotional  
rates expired. He was told that once the promotional interest  rates expired, the remaining 
balances would revert  to the standard  rates  of interest on the accounts. 
Mr K complained to MBNA about its decision  to restrict his spending, and its refusal  to 
extend the promotional interest rates. It told him the decision to restrict his spending could 
be reviewed in the future, but it maintained its position with regard to the interest rates. 
Mr K wasnt  satisfied and so he complained to this service. He explained that MBNA had 
incorrectly and unfairly restricted  the use of his credit card accounts  using  information  from 
his credit file that included  an arrangement  to pay (ATP)  with another lender  that hed 
settled nine years ago. He explained hed spoken  to the bank that MBNA said had provided 
the information, but the bank had disputed the disclosure of the ATP to any credit  reference 
agency. He said there  was no adverse  credit  information registered  against him and 
explained he wanted MBNA  to accept it had relied  on incorrect  information and that it had 
made an error in its assessment of his financial position. Hed also asked MBNA for copies 
of all the information it holds about  him, but no information has been provided. 
Hes also been told that hell be unable to benefit  from promotional  interest  rates once the 
existing rates come to an end, and he believes thats unlawful. He wants  MBNA to remove  
the restrictions and to offer him new promotional  rates when the existing rates run out.
MBNA explained that Mr K applied for a credit card which was approved based the on 
information hed given it. It then completed a manual security review where it was 
determined Mr K had an address he hadnt  told it about. Further, the credit file showed the 
total unsecured  borrowing was significantly higher than it had previously known  about.  At 
that point, the decision  was made to stop the outstanding  balance  transfers, close the new 
account and restrict  the existing  accounts to avoid further spending. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. In her first written  opinion, she 
said she thought  it was reasonable for MBNA  to have  relied  on information from Mr Ks credit 
file. She acknowledged the ATP had ended in 2009, and that was why Mr K hadnt  
mentioned it when he applied for the credit  card; but he hadnt  said the information was 
incorrect. She noted Mr K had been  told his accounts would  be closed after the balances  
were paid off or, if he paid off a considerable amount of the outstanding debt, he could  ask 
for the restrictions to be reviewed, and she felt that was reasonable.
Ref: DRN41562292She accepted Mr K hadnt disclosed the full extent of his financial circumstances when he 
applied for the credit  card, and she questioned  whether MBNA would have offered him credit 
if it had been fully aware of Mr Ks financial position.  She was satisfied its actions were 
reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions  of the account.  
She said MBNAs position with regard to interest rates was a business  decision. She 
accepted there was no obligation on MBNA to offer promotional rates, and that the terms 
and conditions were  clear that interest  would be charged at standard interest rates  after the 
existing rate expired.
Responding to our investigators first written opinion, Mr K said shed made  an error of law 
and fact. He re-iterated there was no adverse credit  registered against him and that MBNA 
had relied on an ATP that was settled in 2009  and which wouldnt have appeared on his 
credit file. He said the credit reference agency had confirmed that if the information  was 
released to MBNA during  May 2018  and June 2018,  it would still be on the closed accounts 
or open data accounts on his credit file. And he questioned how our investigator  felt it was 
reasonable for MBNA  to have relied  on information that was nine years old, arguing that his 
conversations with MBNA relating  to the ATP were irrelevant. He also confirmed he still 
hasnt received the information he asked MBNA to release to enable  him to make  a formal 
complaint to the Information Commissioner Office (ICO).
Our investigator issued  a second written opinion  in response to Mr Ks further comments. 
She acknowledged the ATP had ended  in 2009 and that as it was more  than six years  old, it 
shouldnt have appeared on Mr Ks credit file. However, she didnt  consider  this was relevant 
to the outcome of the complaint as she was satisfied that he hadnt disclosed the full extent 
of his financial circumstances  or the information that mayve been contained within his credit 
file. She maintained it was reasonable for MBNA  to have  concluded  there was a risk Mr K 
might not be able to repay the credit  it had previously agreed,  and that it had acted in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions of the account.
Mr K was unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and has asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks unhappy because he says hes asked MBNA for information that its failed to release. 
MBNAs said it will give Mr K copies  of all the information it holds about him provided he 
makes a Data Subject  Access Request (DSAR) and Im satisfied this is reasonable. 
MBNAs produced  the terms and conditions for Mr Ks accounts which state:  At any time we 
may prevent or limit the use of or access to your account, or your card(s), or may refuse  to 
issue you with a replacement card,  whether  on expiry or otherwise, if this is reasonably 
justified.
MBNAs explained Mr K had three  accounts  and that it conducted a manual review  because 
of concerns it had following an application  hed made for a further credit card account. Its 
described the information it received  as part of the application and the process  this triggered 
and Im satisfied its decision to apply the process  was reasonable. Financial businesses are 
Ref: DRN41562293required to undertake checks to guard against both fraud and unaffordable lending, and Im 
satisfied it acted fairly in the circumstances. 
Mr Ks upset  because he believes MBNAs decision to restrict the spending on his accounts 
was based on incorrect information. Hes offered to provide a copy  of his credit  report but I 
dont think its relevant to the outcome of this complaint  because  I accept the ATP had ended 
and that it wasnt  something that should  have  been  taken into account in MNBAs 
assessment of Mr Ks financial  circumstances.  
However, MBNA also discovered  Mr K was linked  to an address it hadnt previously known 
about, and that his outstanding unsecured borrowing with other lenders was significantly 
higher, and Im satisfied  this information  was relevant. The fact he had a different address  
and higher borrowing was relevant to his overall financial circumstances and to his ability  to 
repay, and Im satisfied  MBNA might not have agreed to offer him any credit  if it had known 
the full extent of his borrowing. It based its subsequent decision to restrict the spending on 
Mr Ks accounts on that information, and I think that was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
MBNA told Mr K the new account would be closed immediately and that, for the existing 
accounts, if he cleared  the balance in full, they would be closed. He was also told that if he 
was able to reduce his outstanding debt and ensure there were no adverse markers on his 
credit file, the restrictions could be reviewed. Ive accepted  the ATP didnt constitute  an 
adverse marker,  but I think that requiring  Mr K to reduce outstanding debt before potentially 
reviewing the position  is reasonable. 
interest rates
Mr Ks also unhappy about  MBNAs  refusal  to extend its promotional interest rates. The 
terms and conditions state:when  a promotional rate ends or is withdrawn, balances  that 
were charged at that promotional rate will be charged at the then current standard rate for 
that transaction type. Ive considered whether  MBNAs position concerning preferential rates 
is fair and Im satisfied  it is and that its in line with the terms and conditions  of the account. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4156229