K822xcomplaint
Mr E is unhappy about the settlement valuation Kindertons Ltd got for his van after it was 
deemed a total loss following a road traffic accident.
background 
On 3 October 2018, Mr E acquired  a van on finance,  for £4,800  plus VAT and paid a £1,000 
deposit. On 5 October 2018, Mr E had an accident  which wasnt his fault. His van was 
assessed by an independent engineer and was deemed a total loss. Mr E said Kindertons 
put a settlement offer to him for his van, at a pre accident market value totalling £4,281.00.
Mr E said the settlement  would cause him to suffer a financial loss as he said he was left to 
pay a deficit of around £1,000 to cover the outstanding finance he had for the van.
 
Kindertons said the valuation had been determined by an independent  engineer and when 
Mr E disputed the valuation the engineer had tried to contact him to discuss  it. Kindertons  
said they told Mr E that he would  be responsible  for paying any outstanding amount 
remaining for the finance for the van.
Mr E wasnt  happy with Kindertons response  and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said the valuation was below market value and that Mr E should have been 
paid £351 more for the pre-accident value of his van.
Kindertons didnt agree  as they said they didnt value  Mr Es car but relied on the services  of 
an independent engineer.  Kindertons asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint, Ill explain  why.
Mr Es had a non-fault accident and didnt use his insurance policy  to make his claim. 
Instead he used  the services  of Kindertons, an accident management company. Kindertons  
aim to provide  their customers with a hire vehicle and repair the damage caused to the 
vehicle by the accident  or determine the pre accident value of the vehicle if it is deemed  
non repairable. And claim this back from the third-party insurer.
It isnt our role to consider who was at fault for the accident or to investigate  the accident  
claim. And it isnt our role to value  Mr Es car but to look to see whether Kindertons have 
acted fairly  and reasonably in carrying out accident  management activities. 
I can see Kindertons asked an independent  engineer to assess the damage done to Mr Es 
van. The independent engineer didnt work specifically  for any of the parties involved in the 
claim and so, made their own assessment. In this case the independent  engineer valued 
Mr Es van at £4,281.  But as the cost of repair was estimated at £3,496.16 plus VAT, the 
vehicle was deemed to be a total loss, in other  words, a write off.
Ref: DRN42505612As Mr E had only a few days before acquired the van at a cost of £4,800  plus VAT he wasnt  
happy with the valuation  placed on it. Again, it isnt our role to tell the independent engineer  
how to assess the value of a vehicle.  But I can see Kindertons, after Mr E said he wasnt  
happy with the valuation,  told him to speak  to the engineer.  And if the engineer  agreed  to 
increase its valuation an amended report would be sent to Kindertons.  And they would 
request any additional payment from the third-party insurer.
I can see an attempt was made by the engineer to contact Mr E, but this wasnt  successful. 
But I can also see Mr E continued to express  his dissatisfaction  about the valuation  given for 
his van and the financial impact this would  have. 
So, Id have expected Kindertons in administering his claim and knowing Mr E was still 
unhappy about the valuation, to have looked  to challenge the suggested  valuation.  
Especially given the difference between the pre accident valuation and the amount Mr E had 
paid only a few days before  the accident.  But Kindertons relied  on Mr E and the independent 
assessor agreeing  a valuation before it would do anything else.
Our approach, in looking to see if a valuation is fair and reasonable, is to check  the relevant  
recognised trade guides. And to consider whether  a reasonable offer has been made in line 
with them.  Typically guides will be more  persuasive  than adverts as theyre based on 
research of nationwide selling prices. By comparison, adverts  dont account  for any 
negotiations over prices.  For Mr E this might still mean the pre-accident value is lower than 
the price he had only a few days before  paid for his van.  
Assessing the value  of a used vehicle  isnt an exact science, but there are accepted  
business guides that can help, we use Glasss, CAPs, and Cazana. The guides gave the 
following valuations:
Glass     £4,281
CAP        £4,429
Cazana   £5,187
The independent engineer had used the valuation found in Glass  only.  But by taking an 
average across the three guides,  the valuation for Mr Es van was found  to be £4,632, a 
difference of £351. I dont think the difference between the guides is significant for me to 
discount the higher or lower range, and I think the average across the three reflects dealer 
asking prices across the market and is reflective  and falls into line with the price Mr E had 
only recently paid for his van.
I think Kindertons could  have done more for Mr E with his claim. So, I think  Kindertons  
should pay Mr E the additional £351  to reflect  the average market  value of his van.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and ask Kindertons Ltd to pay Mr E £351.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020. 
Ref: DRN42505613Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4250561