K821x#15complaint
Mr E says MYJAR  Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about seven instalment loans MYJAR provided to Mr E between June 2016  
and November 2017. Mr E borrowed amounts ranging between  £400 and £1,475  to be 
repaid in three, six or twelve monthly  instalments. Mr E repaid  some loans early and then 
borrowed again shortly  afterwards. Mr E borrowed continuously with no significant breaks 
between the loans. From what  I can see, a balance remains outstanding for loan seven. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Es complaint in part and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. MYJAR  disagreed and so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr E 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr E could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN48850742Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
MYJAR asked Mr E for information  about  his income  and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. Mr E said his monthly  income was between £1,300 and £1,700. He said his 
monthly expenditure was between about  £1,000  and £1,300. 
For loans one and two, given the loan amounts, what was apparent  about Mr Es 
circumstances at the time and his history with MYJAR, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr E provided or the information 
MYJAR shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what Mr E was saying. So I cant say MYJAR was wrong to have provided loans 
one and two.
I think MYJAR should have made further  checks for loan three. Mr E had repaid loans one 
and two quickly. This was his third loan in three months and the amount borrowed had 
increased significantly from £450  to £1,200, and the term was now 12 months.  But Mr E 
hasnt provided  us with any information,  such as bank statements or a credit report, to show 
what better checks would  have found. So I cant say that MYJAR was wrong to provide loan 
three. 
As our adjudicator explained, by loan four there  were signs  that Mr E was struggling to repay  
his previous loans  to MYJAR:
Mr E had borrowed four times in four months and there were only short  breaks in the 
lending.
The amount  borrowed  had increased significantly from loan one. 
MYJARs own credit checks showed that Mr E was also borrowing from other short-term 
lenders.
So I think MYJAR should have realised that there was a significant  risk that Mr E would be 
unable to sustainably  repay loan four, or any subsequent loans.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of MYJARs  lending history with Mr E, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Ref: DRN48850743Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Es case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
six. I say this because  by this point I think the pattern of Mr Es borrowing showed  that he 
was persistently reliant on short term loans:
Mr E had taken out six loans  in 15 months and the amounts he borrowed didnt 
significantly decrease.
From  loan six onwards Mr E was provided with a new loan within days  of settling a 
previous one. So MYJAR ought to have  realised it was more  likely than not Mr E was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Es indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr E wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed MYJAR. Loan seven was 
taken out 15 months after Mr Es first. And it was for a larger  amount. Mr E had paid 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to MYJAR over an extended period.
I think that Mr E lost out because MYJAR  continued  to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Es indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mr Es ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-
cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans four to seven and I think  MYJAR  should put 
things right.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr E paid on loans four to seven and waive  any 
outstanding; offset this refund  against  the balance of principal still owing for loan seven 
and agree a repayment  loan to clear  the balance;  or, if theres  a remainder, pay this to 
Mr E;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans four and five from Mr Es credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from loans  six onwards means  any information recorded  
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans six and seven should be removed from 
Mr Es credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Es complaint. I 
require MYJAR Limited to pay Mr E compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN48850744Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4885074