K820x#14complaint
Bank of Scotland plc sold Mr Es account  to a debt collection agency. It later told him it had 
sent the wrong figure, but it had put it right.  
Mr E is complaining because he wants:
-more compensation  than Bank  of Scotland  has given him, and   
-the details  changed on his County  Court Judgment (CCJ).
background
Mr E opened  an account with Bank  of Scotland  in November  2010.
The amount  Mr E owed  increased. In November 2012, Bank of Scotland  closed  Mr Es 
account and applied a default to his credit file. In November 2014, Bank of Scotland  sold the 
account to a debt collection firm. The balance Mr E owed was £3,254.15.
In early 2019, the bank carried out an internal review of accounts which had previously been 
with its Collections team, including Mr Es. It wrote to Mr E, and said that on 30 May 2012, 
Mr E had set up a repayment plan with the banks Collections team. But the bank explained 
that by that time, it was clear Mr Es financial difficulties werent short term. So Bank of 
Scotland said it should have started the closure  process at that point, instead of setting  up a 
repayment plan.  It told Mr E that, if it had done  that, Mr E wouldnt have been charged a 
further £887 in fees.
So Bank of Scotland refunded £887, which it sent to the debt collection firm to reduce the 
balance Mr E owed. And it sent Mr E £100  compensation.
Mr E complained to Bank of Scotland. The bank  didnt  uphold his complaint. It explained the 
actions it had taken.  And it told Mr E that his debt was now payable to the debt collection 
firm. So hed have to go to them about the amount  which  showed  on his CCJ.
Mr E wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service. He told us the amount Bank of 
Scotland had sold to the debt collection agency was wrong, because  it had overcharged  him 
for defaults.  He believed  he was due more compensation. Mr E also wanted the details 
changed on his CCJ.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Es complaint. He said he could understand Mr Es 
frustration that the amount sold had been wrong by £887. But Bank of Scotland had put it 
right by sending that amount to the debt collection agency to be taken off Mr Es debt. And 
he thought the £100  compensation which Bank  of Scotland had paid Mr E was fair and 
reasonable. He explained  that the £887 Mr E had been overcharged wouldnt have affected 
his creditworthiness  to a great extent, consider the amount Mr E had outstanding.
Mr E didnt agree. He still felt he was owed more  compensation. He said hed seen on our 
website that if a bank treats a customer unfairly on more than one occasion, compensation 
would be at a higher  level. He said that Bank of Scotland had treated him unfairly repeatedly,  
by speaking to him monthly but then adding charges which he was forced  to accept. He was 
also unhappy that Bank of Scotland had increased  his lending limit, and he said this had 
caused him distress  ever since. 
Ref: DRN40729442my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Bank of Scotland  carried  out its review of accounts which had previously been  with its 
Collections team, it paid £887 to the debt collection  agency to reduce Mr Es balance.  As Ive 
set out above,  the reason  the bank did this was that it thought  it should  have closed  Mr Es 
account earlier than it did, because there  wasnt a reasonable chance that he would meet  
the repayment plan which was set up. I find that Bank of Scotland acted fairly in doing this, 
and that it corrected the issue.
What Mr E has complained about  is the £100  compensation  he received, and the details on 
the CCJ which the debt collection agency registered  against  his name. Ive looked at the 
compensation issue below. But I cant consider Mr Es complaint about  the CCJ. Thats 
because it was the debt collection agency,  not Bank of Scotland, which  registered  that 
judgment, and hell need  to complain to that organisation.
On compensation,  Ive considered Mr Es arguments  that he should receive more than the 
£100 which Bank of Scotland  paid him. 
Mr E has seen  that our website says that if a bank treats a customer  unfairly on more  than 
one occasion,  compensation is at a higher level. But there was only one occasion  when 
Bank of Scotland discussed a payment arrangement  with him and put this in place, when it 
later felt it should have  closed his account  and sent it to the debt collection agency instead.  
That took place  on 30 May 2012.
Mr E has said that Bank of Scotland contacted him every month, so he says that was 
multiple occasions. But contacting Mr E every month doesnt mean the bank made  the May 
2012 mistake every  month  it was a different  matter. What  the bank was doing  was 
speaking to Mr E about his debt. It was entitled  to do this, and it was also entitled to charge 
him fees.  That was set out in the terms and conditions of his account, which Ive seen. 
What Bank  of Scotland  did wrong, in May 2012, wasnt that it overcharged or wasnt entitled 
to charge these  fees each month.  What it did wrong was that it didnt close  Mr Es account 
and sell it to the debt collection agency  as early as it should.  By not giving  up on Mr E in May 
2012, and letting the account run on, there  were  more  months when the fees were debited. 
Those fees were debited  in line with the terms and conditions, but as the account  ran on for 
longer, more months of fees happened  before the account was closed and sold.  Its these 
fees which the bank paid to Mr Es account with the debt collection agency.  And the bank 
only made this mistake once.
Mr E has also said he was also unhappy  that Bank of Scotland  increased his lending  limit. 
The banks final response letter  explains  that the reason  it did this in May 2012 was that it 
needed to increase the temporary  overdraft limit in order  to set up the repayment  plan it was 
offering Mr E as a last chance before  closing  his account. As Mr Es account was already  an 
unarranged  overdraft this was the only way the bank could set up the repayment plan. I 
accept this argument. I dont consider it was irresponsible  lending,  but a way to be able to 
set up the repayment plan in the hope it would help Mr E get back  on track.
Ref: DRN40729443Ive considered whether £100  was fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience the banks error caused  Mr E, and I find that it was. So I dont uphold  Mr Es 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4072944