K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold  their mortgage. They say it 
didnt consider how they would repay  the interest  only part of their mortgage, it didnt 
adequately assess  the suitability of consolidating unsecured debts and it didnt consider how 
they would  repay the mortgage  once  Mrs T retired.
background
In 2009, Barclays  recommended that Mr and Mrs T should take a mortgage of £184,000.  
The balance was £70,000  interest only and £114,000 repayment  mortgage. The mortgage  
had a term of 20 years.  Mr T was 62 years old at the time of application and Mrs T was 49. 
The purpose of the mortgage was to consolidate  unsecured debt.
Mr and Mrs T say that the mortgage was mis-sold. In particular they say that Barclays:
Didnt ask them how they would repay  the interest only part of their mortgage.
Advised them to consolidate their debt by remortgaging without considering  whether  
another option would  be more suitable for them.
Didnt tell them that by adding short term unsecured debt to their mortgage would mean 
that they were  repaying that debt over a longer term and would incur  more interest as a 
result. 
Did not discuss how Mrs T would repay the mortgage when she retired  in 2025.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She didnt  think Barclays  gave 
Mr and Mrs T unsuitable advice about their interest only mortgage  or consolidating debt. She 
also thought that it fairly considered whether  the mortgage was affordable over the term of 
the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs T responded to make  a number of points, including:
The mortgage offer said they needed  a repayment vehicle of £70,000.
Mr T wasnt working at the time and affordability was questionable.
The poor advice  has caused financial difficulty and affected  their mental health for years 
and Mrs T will have to keep working until she is 70 to maintain the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays was giving  Mr and Mrs T mortgage advice. So it was required to take reasonable 
steps to gather information about  Mr and Mrs Ts needs and circumstances and recommend 
a mortgage that was suitable for them based on that. As a lender it also had a responsibility 
to make sure the mortgage was affordable over the term of the mortgage.
Ref: DRN45376152The application form states that Mrs T was employed with an expected  retirement age of 70 
and a monthly income of £2,395. Mr T wasnt working. It goes on to list total unsecured  debt 
of over £50,000 with monthly payments of £1,514  with the majority to be repaid on 
completion, reducing monthly payments for unsecured debt to £342  (although  Barclays  has 
given evidence to show that Mr and Mrs T later agreed to repay  all of their unsecured debt 
with help from their parents). The application form says the repayment vehicle for the 
interest only element  of the mortgage  is an endowment policy  of £70,000,  which was due to 
mature in 2021.
interest only
It was reasonable  for Barclays to recommend a part interest only mortgage as it seems  likely 
that Mr and Mrs T told it they had an endowment policy  that would be sufficient  to repay the 
interest only element.  And the mortgage offer set out the requirement  for a repayment 
vehicle. So Mr and Mrs T had the opportunity to query it if they didnt, in fact, have a 
repayment vehicle.
debt consolidation
Barclays hasnt given  us its rationale from the time about why it thought debt consolidations 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs T. So I have  to make my decision based on the information  
available to me.
The relevant  rules at the time said that where a business recommends a mortgage  to 
consolidate existing  debt it must take account  of the following, where relevant:
(1)the costs associated with increasing the period over which a debt is to be repaid;
(2)whether it is appropriate for the customer to secure a previously unsecured  loan; and
(3) where the customer is known to have payment difficulties, whether it would be more 
appropriate for the customer to negotiate  an arrangement  with his creditors than to take out 
a regulated mortgage contract.
I cant see any evidence that Barclays took account of the increased  costs or the risks of 
securing a previously  unsecured debt. But I can see that Mr and Mrs T didnt have payment 
difficulties  so it didnt have to consider whether they should negotiate with their creditors 
instead.
But I have to consider  that Mr and Mrs T had a large  amount  of unsecured debt in relation to 
their income  and that took up a significant proportion of their monthly income.  I can see 
why there  was a need for them to rearrange  their debt on to a more affordable basis. And 
although there was the risk of securing that debt and increasing  total costs   the monthly 
saving was significant. 
It isnt clear whether  Barclays  took into account the risks of debt consolidation. But there was 
a significant benefit to Mr and Mrs T which I think in the circumstances outweighed the risks.
After carefully considering  the information  available to me, I think it would be difficult for me 
to say that Barclays acted  unfairly  or unreasonably in recommending  debt consolidation in 
the circumstances here.  
Ref: DRN45376153affordability into retirement
When the mortgage was arranged, Barclays, along with other lenders, used an income  
multiplier to decide  how much to lend to borrowers.  The income multiple  it agreed  for Mr and 
Mrs T was higher than it would normally agree   and the application was originally declined.  
But Barclays  reviewed its decision on appeal and approved  a higher income multiplier. This 
was not unusual. But I still need  to decide if Barclays  acted fairly  and reasonably in 
assessing affordability. 
I can see that Barclays considered Mr and Mrs Ts payment history,  the savings they would 
make and it was told they would repay  all their unsecured debts.  In view of that, I think  it 
made a reasonable decision in approving the application. On the face of it with all of the 
unsecured debts repaid the mortgage  was affordable.
Mrs T will be eligible  for state  pension in 2025. The term of the mortgage  goes past when 
both her and Mr T will be eligible for state pension.  But the decision  to lend and the 
recommendation was based on Mrs Ts income  and that she would continue  working  until 
2029 when she will be 70.
It was reasonable  for Barclays to accept that Mrs T could continue  to work until she was 70. I 
say this in view of what  it knew  about Mrs Ts job  there was no indication that it was not 
something that she could  carry  on into her sixties.
So I dont  consider it was unfair or unreasonable to recommend a mortgage of this term to 
Mr and Mrs T.
conclusion
Im sorry  to hear about  the worry that this mortgage has caused to Mr and Mrs T. But looking 
at the information we have and what we know about the circumstances, I consider that it was 
reasonable for Barclays to recommend the mortgage it did and to consider that it was 
affordable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 November 2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4537615