K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2003. Mr H says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr H case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mr H, so Ill 
explain my reasons why below.
Mr H says that he was emerging from a period of financial stress and at the time had a low 
credit rating when he applied for his credit card  he says that he felt that taking PPI would 
enhance his chances of getting the credit  card. However I think  RBS made it clear that Mr H 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose  to take it out  although I can understand 
why he cant remember this as it was so long ago.
Mr H applied for his card and PPI policy through the post  without interacting with an RBS 
representative. RBS has supplied a copy of his application  form  PPI has been selected 
with a tick and Mr H has signed for the card and policy.  The section for PPI explains that 
your repayments will not be protected unless you take Payment Protection Cover  and 
invites you to tick a box to select the policy, and read through  the enclosed  documents. I 
dont find that this wording  suggests  an application will be looked  on more favourably  by 
taking PPI, so although  Mr H says he thought applying for the PPI would mean hes be more 
likely to get the card, I cant say that it was RBS that led him to this conclusion.
RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr H  it wouldve had to ask him about his personal  
circumstances and provide advice in order for it to have done so. And as Mr H applied  for his 
card through the post, I dont think it did. I also cant see anything on the application that 
would suggest  a personalised and tailored recommendation  was being made. This means 
that RBS it didnt have to check if the PPI was right for Mr H. But it did have to make sure 
Mr H got the information he needed  to decide  if it was right for him. That said,  even if RBS 
had made  a recommendation to Mr H, I havent seen anything that suggests it wouldve  
been wrong to do so.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it could  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
This means  RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Ref: DRN41676362RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said - including  what hes said about having existing 
cover in place, and that he shouldve been  given the opportunity to reconsider taking PPI 
again when the credit card was converted to a Mint card in 2004. 
But the PPI couldve  paid out alongside any existing cover Mr H had  and he also chose to 
take it out knowing what he already had in place. And as I understand it, the change from 
Advanta to Mint was a rebranding exercise by RBS.  Mr H didnt make a new application  
his account was just switched over, and as Ive explained above,  I think  he knew  he had a 
choice in taking  the PPI  so if he didnt wish to continue with the cover  he couldve 
cancelled his policy.
what the business needs  to do
RBS has to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back to Mr H any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
RBS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr H the difference  between  
what Mr H owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS should also pay Mr H 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4167636