K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about issues  hes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from Close  
Brothers Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I proposed to partially  uphold  Mr Cs complaint 
and to require  Close Brothers to compensate  Mr C. I invited Mr C and Close Brothers to let 
me have  any further evidence or arguments they wanted to make before I finally  determined  
the matter.
Mr C replied and said at the beginning he was willing  to take the car to the dealer  for repair  
but had subsequently  been advised  no to do so due to safety concerns. He said hed asked 
the dealer to collect the car, but it declined. 
Mr C also said that in order  to claim under the warranty, the service history had to be up to 
date but the car had no service history  at all, so he was unwilling to strip the vehicle and be 
left with a bill.
Close Brothers replied and said it had nothing to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the further  arguments raised  by Mr C but my view hasnt changed. As 
I said in my provisional decision, the business is allowed one opportunity to repair a fault and 
in this case,  I cant see that the business was given the opportunity to repair the steering  
rack. This isnt a case where  I would  recommend  rejection  and so I wont be asking Close  
Brothers to return the trade in value of Mr Cs old car.
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is to partially uphold the complaint. 
I require Close Brothers  Limited to pay compensation of £300 to Mr C to reflect  the trouble 
and upset caused to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4345027