K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about the delays associated with his Legal & General Insurance Limited  
(L&G) home  insurance claim for accidental  damage to his home  when his bath overflowed.  
background 
Due to a blockage  in his drains, Mr Bs bath overflowed at the end of July 2018. Both the 
bathroom and the kitchen  below were damaged. Mr B claimed under his home  insurance  
policy and L&G accepted the claim, appointed a loss adjuster  to handle it and a surveyor  to 
assess what works were required. Mr B and his family were moved into alternative 
accommodation (AA)  in the form of two hotel rooms - on 21 August 2018 where they 
remained until the works were completed on 7 November 2018 and they moved  back home. 
In mid-October Mr B complained to L&G about  the length of time the works were taking, the 
delays he said hed endured, the payment of a disturbance allowance, the out of pocket 
expenses he said hed incurred and the poor communication hed maintained hed received. 
L&G looked  into Mr Bs complaint  and said that the claim hadnt progressed  as efficiently as 
it wouldve  liked. It said there  had been some  unavoidable  delays  but also some avoidable 
ones. It accepted that the level of service  had fallen below its usual standard and paid Mr B 
£250 to compensate him. Mr B then complained to this service.  
Mr B continued to contact  L&G almost  daily. There was an issue  with sourcing the correct  
replacement bath. Mr B complained again about not being kept up to date about progress on 
site; that he and his family were still living in a hotel; with the amount of disturbance 
allowance he was receiving and that he was out of pocket for other expenses.  Mr B said the 
claim was taking its toll on his family and that he was increasingly frustrated at not yet being 
back in his home.
L&G responded to Mr Bs further complaints and tried to address his concerns. L&G 
explained that its contractors were  still awaiting  delivery of all the materials  on site which 
they expected to receive the next day. Thereafter, L&G estimated the works would take a 
week to complete. L&G said the contractor  had undertaken to keep Mr B up to date every  
other day.  
In the end it took the contractors a couple of extra days to complete the works and Mr B 
moved back home on 7 November 2018. L&G paid for AA up to that date along  with a £35 
per day disturbance allowance for the family. Mr B questioned whether hed received all the 
disturbance allowance he was entitled to. L&G investigated and discovered it had paid him 
for 77 rather than 78 days (a total of £2,660) so it sent Mr B a cheque  for £35. It said to Mr B 
that if he could  provide  evidence of the out of pocket  expenses he said hed incurred then it 
would consider them.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and thought it was unfair that Mr B and his 
family had spent so long in a hotel. He recommended that L&G pay Mr B further 
compensation of £150. He also thought the daily disturbance allowance L&G had paid was 
fair so didnt  recommend that L&G pay any more  nor did he recommend that L&G pay for 
any of Mr Bs out of pocket expenses as hed not been able to provide any documentary  
evidence about  what they were. 
Ref: DRN49068052L&G accepted our investigators  recommendation but Mr B didnt. He said £35 a day for 3 
adults and a child was insufficient.  He also said hed had to take his children to school each 
day by car rather than walking like they were  usually able to so hed incurred extra  petrol 
costs. He thought  compensation  of £390 was a more reasonable amount to be awarded. 
Our investigator asked  L&G if it would  be willing  to pay £390 but it said it wouldnt. It said it 
had already paid Mr B £250 and had said it was willing to pay a further £150 only.
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
By their very nature all insurance claims attract a certain amount of inconvenience for the 
policyholder  some claims  more  than others  thats to be expected. The service  doesnt 
award compensation for the inconvenience of having to make the claim in the first place. The 
fact a claim needs to be made isnt the fault of the insurer. But where  an insurer   through its 
actions or words  makes an already stressful  situation worse, we will recommend that 
compensation is paid.  
This service isnt here to punish or fine financial businesses. We are here to look at 
individual consumer  complaints and reach a fair and reasonable resolution  for both parties.  
I can see that there were  delays with Mr Bs claim. Some  were unavoidable  like the plaster 
taking longer to dry than hoped  and some were  avoidable  such as not proceeding with 
other works whilst the plaster was drying.  And I can see that Mr B engaged L&Gs 
contractors to undertake  some private works  in relation to the bathroom suite  - as well. 
I have no doubt  that it was inconvenient  to spend  78 days  in two hotel rooms.  But I cant 
reasonably hold L&G responsible for the necessity of moving the family into AA. Their  home  
was without a functioning kitchen and bathroom  so it was right they were  homed elsewhere 
whilst these rooms were  reinstated. It was always going to be necessary to move them out. 
But insofar as they were  in the hotel  for longer than they needed  to be  because of the 
avoidable delays  L&G has identified,  Ive taken this into account  when  considering what  fair 
compensation looks like. 
L&G paid Mr B a disturbance allowance of £35 per day for the family. The amount paid is in 
line with what this service  recommends in these situations. So Im satisfied that L&G has 
treated Mr B fairly in this respect. But it is worth stating that the allowance  is for the 
disturbance of not having cooking facilities.  It isnt to cover  usual food expenses because its 
not reasonable to require an insurer to pay for normal  day-to-day food expenses a family 
would normally incur. The allowance isnt intended to cover  the total cost associated  with 
feeding a family or to replace the normal weekly expenditure  on food. 
Mr B hasnt produced  any documentary  evidence of the out of pocket expenses he says he 
incurred whilst in AA and I cant fairly  require L&G to consider them without it. 
Water damage claims do take a little while to resolve. I think, by L&Gs own admittance, this 
one took a little longer than it shouldve done. I cant ignore that L&G has already paid Mr B 
compensation of £250 and that its now agreed to our investigators recommendation to pay 
a further £150.  I think that total compensation for the inconvenience  caused by the avoidable 
Ref: DRN49068053delays associated with this claim is fair in all the circumstances and is in in line with awards 
this service has made in similar cases. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Legal & General Insurance  
Limited to pay Mr B compensation of £150 for the avoidable delays in handling his claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4906805