K822xcomplaint
Mr Qs complaint is about seven instalment loans he took with Global Kapital Group Ltd  
trading as MyKredit. He says these loans were unaffordable. 
background 
MyKredit provided Mr Q with four instalment loans between October 2016 and August 2017.  
Our adjudicator thought MyKredit  hadnt done  anything wrong  when providing  Mr Q with the 
first four loans. But they thought that MyKredit  shouldnt  have provided loans 5 to 7 to Mr Q. 
So, they partially upheld Mr Qs complaint.
MyKredit accepted our adjudicators view. But Mr Q disagreed, so the case  was passed to 
me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
MyKredit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr Q could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MyKredit  should fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MyKredit was required to establish 
whether Mr Q could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN41054522Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Qs complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Qs complaint  about loans 1 to 4. As Mr Q didnt respond 
directly to us about the adjudicators opinion on this loan, I wont  make  any further findings 
on it. 
MyKredit agreed with our adjudicators findings that loans 5 to 7 shouldnt have been lent. 
Looking at what the adjudicator said, I agree with their rationale for why these loans  werent 
suitable for Mr Q. 
I say this because  given the circumstances  of Mr Qs case,  I think the point  of where further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, was reached by loan 5 because: 
At this point MyKredit  ought to have realised  Mr Q was not managing  to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr Q had taken  out five loans  within nine months. So MyKredit  
ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr Q was having to borrow  further 
to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving  in his finances and that     
Mr Qs indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Mr Qs first loan was for £200 and loan 5 was for the same amount.  At this point 
MyKredit ought  to have known  that it was unlikely Mr Q was borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in his income but more to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr Q wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he/she owed MyKredit.  Loan 7 
was taken out 10 months after Mr Qs first. Mr Q had paid large  amounts of interest  
to, in effect, service  a debt to MyKredit  over an extended period.
I think that Mr Q lost out because MyKredit  continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Qs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr Q borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Qs ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Overall and having carefully thought  about everything,  Im satisfied that what MyKredit  has 
already agreed  to do (in terms of putting things right for loans 5 to 7) is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of Mr Qs case.   
putting things right 
Ref: DRN41054523There is an outstanding  balance on loan 7. So MyKredit should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr Q paid on loans 5 to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
rework loan 7 applying all payments made  by Mr Q as if they went  towards the 
principal amount borrowed. But importantly,  Lending Stream needs to make sure 
that it collects no more than the principal sum lent. 
If and when the amount Mr Q has paid exceeds the amount he was lent, any further 
amounts paid should be treated as overpayments. Any overpayments  that may have 
been made should be refunded to Mr Q with 8% simple interest from the date the 
overpayment was made to the date of settlement ;
if there is still an outstanding balance, any refunds  should  be used to repay any 
balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If there  is any surplus this should be 
repaid to Mr Q.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Qs credit file in relation to loan 6. 
the number  of loans taken from loan 5 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 5, 6 and 7 should  be removed from 
Mr Qs credit file. You do not have  to remove loan 7 from Mr Qs credit file until these 
have been repaid,  but any adverse information recorded about these loans should 
still be removed.
                                                                                                                                 
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending Stream 
must give Mr Q a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr Q still has an outstanding balance due on loan 7 then it should 
try and work  together  to come to a mutually  agreeable  repayment  plan in order to repay 
what is owed. But Id remind Lending  Stream of its obligation to treat Mr Q fairly. 
Ref: DRN41054524my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I think what Global Kapital Group Ltd has already agreed 
to do to put things  right for Mr Q is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint 
and I dont ask it to do any more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4105452