K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says Bank of Scotland  plc, trading  as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold  her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs T bought the policy at a meeting in 1997 at the same time as taking a mortgage. The 
policy provided cover for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject to its exclusions 
and limitations. It cost around £15 a month at the time and, for a successful claim, offered to 
pay £300 a month to help with Mrs Ts mortgage related costs.   
Mrs T was employed at the time as a teacher and had been there a year. Shes  told us she 
was entitled to at least  12 months full sick pay and didnt have any other means with which  
to pay her mortgage if she couldnt work.  From  what  shes told us of her job and length  of 
service, I think it unlikely  her work  sick pay was 12 months full pay. From what Mrs T has 
told us, at the time of the sale she was in good  health and hadnt  had any health issues.  
Halifax has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account closed in 2002. Mrs Ts 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mrs Ts 
representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs T wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Ts representatives believe there  to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mrs T about 
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs T and the impact they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mrs T received  was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs T disagreed  with the adjudicators 
Ref: DRN46699292opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ts. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ts complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ts case.
Ref: DRN46699293There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Ts complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs T with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs T, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs T suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs T and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs T know she had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mrs T has said she had no interest  in PPI 
and says it was just included as part of her mortgage package. But her mortgage application 
had a separate Accident, sickness and unemployment insurance section, with boxes for 
her to sign to say either yes or no to the cover. Mrs T signed the yes box, next to which  is 
Ref: DRN46699294handwritten: I would  like more details.  So this makes me think it likely  Mrs T was aware the 
PPI was something she had a choice about taking. 
Mrs T later signed a separate Mortgage Repayments Insurance Application to apply for the 
PPI, which  also makes  it look like the PPI was presented  as something separate  from the 
mortgage itself.  And I think Mrs T wouldve  known  not to sign the PPI application to apply for 
the cover  if she didnt want the cover.  Also Ive nothing from the time to suggest Mrs T was 
led to believe she had to take the PPI - and nothing to suggest she were pressured into it.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mrs T knew  the PPI was optional  and 
agreed to take it without  undue pressure - although, given how long has passed, it would be 
understandable if she didnt recall  all the details of the application now.  
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it provided advice during this sale. Mrs T hasnt said there wasnt  advice. With 
all this in mind, Im persuaded Halifax provided advice. This means it had to advise Mrs T 
with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable 
given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know exactly what steps Halifax took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs T. Theres no record of exactly what was discussed in relation to 
the policy  this is unsurprising in respect  of a sale during a meeting. Halifax  had some 
information about Mrs Ts financial circumstances - for example, her income, occupation and 
length of service. Also, the PPI application  form she signed had boxes on it ticked to say she 
wasnt aware of any impending unemployment,  wasnt on a fixed  term contract and hadnt 
seen a doctor in the last 12 months  except for minor  illnesses. 
Halifax also recorded that Mrs T answered  no to having a pre-existing condition.  But what  I 
have doesnt show when or how exactly Halifax asked Mrs T about this  or show  that Mrs T 
was asked about this before she agreed  to the policy. With this in mind, what  I have doesnt 
show that Halifax did enough to establish  Mrs T wouldnt have been caught  by the significant 
exclusions and limitations which  mightve meant the PPI didnt fully meet her needs.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs T given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs T, I do think its more likely  than not the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for her. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs T met the eligibility criteria for the policy and the monthly cost appears  to have been 
affordable for her.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs T. There was 
nothing about  Mrs Ts employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult for 
her to claim. And she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical  conditions  that 
couldve affected her ability to claim.
Ref: DRN46699295-Mrs T had a need for the policy  even  allowing for her likely work  sick pay, it seems  
likely Mrs Ts income would fall if for an extended period she were unable to work due to 
disability or redundancy. The policy benefit  wouldve  helped  her manage the 
consequences and help ensure she could continue to meet her mortgage payments.
-There were  limits  to the cover  provided  by the policy (including that it would only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim and Mrs T couldnt claim disability 
unless she were  unable to do her own or any similar  job, and unable to do any paid work  
her experience, education or training reasonably qualified  her to do). But the PPI still 
provided valuable  cover given Mrs Ts circumstances, the loss of income  she might 
suffer if she couldnt work, the role the policy benefit could play in that situation in helping  
her meet  mortgage related  costs and, as the PPI was to protect  the mortgage on Mrs Ts 
house, the potential consequences  were Mrs T to have become unable to make 
payments on the mortgage loan secured against her home.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs T sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Halifax 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs T was given  a broad description of what  the policy  
was intended  to cover (that is, it was help for mortgage related costs  if she were unable  to 
work due to accident, sickness or unemployment). Ive reached  this conclusion because  I 
think its unlikely Mrs T would  have  taken the policy without any sense of what it was for. 
Also, the PPI section on her mortgage  application  form said the PPI was insurance against  
accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment and her application form for the PPI 
policy called the PPI Mortgage Repayments Insurance. 
The PPI application  form also stated the monthly  benefit of £300 and the monthly premium 
payable of around £15 a month. So Mrs T was told what  the PPI premium  would be and the 
monthly benefit the policy would pay for a successful claim. But the evidence from the time 
of sale doesnt  tell us whether Halifax gave sufficient information  about the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs T agreed to the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs T, Im not persuaded Halifax  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mrs T all the information she needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ts representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ts. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN46699296-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ts representative considers  to be poor value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs T about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone  further  and explained the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ts representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mrs T has suggested.  And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude Halifax ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mrs T? To what extent  did she suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs T. So I have 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs T suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not she would have still 
taken the policy,  had Halifax done things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs T, I have found  the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In those circumstances it seems  to me that, whether or not Mrs T has suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
properly, Mrs T would have acted differently or whether she would have taken the policy in 
any event.
Mrs T says she wouldnt have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully. 
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mrs T had some  interest in taking payment protection  
insurance. By this I mean when Halifax advised her there was a suitable product she could 
buy that would protect  her mortgage  payments if she were unable  to work because  of 
accident, sickness or unemployment, she concluded she wanted that product. But she made  
that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she thought she was getting is 
not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ts circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Ref: DRN46699297As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs T was given about the cost and benefit 
was clear But the information  about  other aspects of the policy,  such  as the limitations and 
exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should have been.   
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs T thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded disability claims related to any health  issue  Mrs T knew or shouldve  
known about or for which she had been  advised or treated by a medical practitioner in 
the 12 months before the policy start and which recurred within  24 months  of the start 
(also if at the policy start she were  aware of a health issue in the 12 months  before that 
might cause  her to claim, benefits  wouldnt be paid for claims directly  related  to it);
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs T wasnt 
a permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs T be unable to do her own 
or any similar job, and unable to do any paid work her experience, education  or training 
reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, not the remaining mortgage  term.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs T pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs T from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Also, I havent  seen any evidence to suggest Mrs T 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  she hadnt any health issues and 
was in permanent  employment. So I think Mrs T still had some good reasons to take the PPI.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs T might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs T 
from taking the policy,  Mrs T, in her circumstances,  still had some good  reasons to take it.
If Mrs T had known  she couldnt claim for disability unless she were  not only unable to do 
her own or any similar job, but also unable to do any paid work her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do, it might have played into her thinking about what  to 
do. And I accept it may have given her pause for thought  although, given her 
circumstances, on balance I think Mrs T wouldve  still been interested in taking the cover.  
Halifax may not have  told Mrs T any claim she made would be limited  to 12 months.  This 
may have  differed from what  she expected  and mightve hoped  for  but 12 months  was 
longer than she wouldve likely received  full sick pay and her redundancy entitlement was 
also likely worth less than 12 months  income. In those circumstances, I consider it likely  
Ref: DRN46699298Mrs T wouldve still thought a policy that paid up to 12 monthly benefit payments would 
benefit her and help her manage the consequences should she be unable  to work in the 
circumstances the policy covered.  It allowed  multiple claims and the benefit could reduce 
Mrs Ts outgoings,  help ensure her home wasnt placed at risk and help preserve her sick 
pay for other  use at what could be a difficult time if she were unemployed or too sick to work.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs T would still have taken the policy. It was suitable for her, sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences if she were  made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  or sickness.  
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mrs T would have  taken the policy in 
any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ts representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs T would  not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs T 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs T believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs T in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible Mrs T wouldnt have taken the PPI, I am 
satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she would still have taken it had she 
been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  she was buying. So Im 
not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude Halifax  
should pay Mrs T compensation, as that would  put her in a better position than she would 
have been in if everything had happened as it should have  done.  
Ref: DRN46699299Im also aware Mrs T thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs T, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 1997 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ts representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs T and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs T in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4669929