K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in December 1988.  They  paid a 
monthly amount  for the policy, which covered  Mr S for accident, sickness  and redundancy.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint because he didnt think  Santander made the costs and 
benefits of the policy  clear  enough at the time of sale; and he thought  that if Santander had 
made the costs  and benefits clear enough at the time of sale, Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have  
taken out the policy.  Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint 
was passed to me.
I sent Mr and Mrs S and Santander  my provisional decision on 29 March 2019 explaining 
why I wasnt intending  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. I said that before I made my final 
decision Id look at anything else anyone wanted to give me, so long as I got it before 
29 April 2019.
Mr and Mrs S responded to my provisional  decision  and have pointed out that I said in my 
provisional decision that Santander could  have explained the cost of the policy  better than it 
did and that its possible Santander didnt point out the main  things  the policy didnt cover.  
Theyve also said that the application Mr S signed quoted a monthly cost of £8.02 but the 
first monthly payment was £10.66 and this shows Santanders lack of transparency at the 
time. Theyve also said that due to their level of English in the 1980s  they feel they were 
taken advantage of by Santander.
I didnt receive any response  to my provisional decision  from Santander.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs S have  said in response to my provisional decision.  
However, Ive reached the same conclusions and for the same reasons as in my provisional 
decision. Ive explained my reasons  again  below.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint because:
Mr and Mrs S have said they were  told the MPPI wasnt optional.  But I just dont think 
theres enough evidence for me to say this is what  most likely happened. Mr and Mrs S 
had originally  taken  the mortgage out with Santander in 1986, over two years before the 
MPPI. I can also see that Mr S signed the application for MPPI to take it out. Overall,  I 
think its most  likely  that Santander made Mr and Mrs S aware that they had a choice 
about buying the MPPI, and that they chose  to take it. Ive also not seen sufficient 
evidence that Mr and Mrs S were taken  advantage of or pressured.
Ref: DRN48171392Im not persuaded that Santander recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs S  so it didnt 
have to check  it was right for them. Instead I think that Santander  provided  Mr and Mrs S 
with information  about the MPPI  so they could make  up their own mind  if they wanted it.
I think Santander  couldve  explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. I say this 
because I can see that the MPPI application  Mr S signed quoted the monthly cost of the 
MPPI as £8.02   but the first monthly  payment taken for the MPPI was £10.66.  But I think  
that, even if Santander  had disclosed the monthly  cost at the point of sale as £10.66, 
Mr and Mrs S would still have bought  it. Theyd already decided to proceed  on the basis  
of a monthly premium  of £8.02  so I dont think this wouldve made a difference.
Its possible Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But Mr S 
doesnt appear to have  been  affected  by any of those  things.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ss comments, including  what  theyve said about  Mr Ss 
sick pay and redundancy pay entitlement, their savings,  and other circumstances. But as Ive 
already said, it was for Mr and Mrs S to decide for themselves  if they wanted the cover 
bearing in mind their own circumstances   and it looks to me like they decided that they did. 
Deciding to take the MPPI  out in these circumstances wouldnt have been illogical or 
automatically unwarranted  the policy could still have paid out if Mr S lost his job or couldnt  
work at what  couldve been  quite a challenging time  it was a sensible precaution. So for 
these reasons, and the reasons explained  above,  these  points  dont change  my conclusion.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs S paid on their MPPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly.
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ss MPPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Santander has been  working  this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ss commission  was less 
than half the cost of the MPPI.  As thats  the case, I dont think it needed  to tell them about 
the commission  so I dont think Santander treated them unfairly.  This means  it doesnt  
need to pay Mr and Mrs S back any of the commission they for the MPPI.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4817139