K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains Bank  of Baroda wont allow him to change his SIPP provider without closing 
and reopening his fixed term deposit account  which will result in a loss of interest.
background
Mr A holds three five-year fixed term deposit  accounts within  his SIPP   one of which is with 
Bank of Baroda. He recently decided to change SIPP providers to reduce his monthly 
charges and says he contacted each of the banks he holds a fixed  deposit account with to 
make sure he could change SIPP provider. He says he was initially  told by Bank of Baroda 
he could. But Bank of Baroda  has since said, because he is in the middle of the fixed term, 
he would  need  to close and reopen  the fixed deposit account which would mean the interest 
rate would reduce from 2.75% to 1.30%. He complained about this as he says all that is 
happening is the name on the account  is changing. 
Bank of Baroda didnt  respond to Mr As complaint so he referred  the matter to us where one 
of our investigators looked into things. He thought Bank of Baroda shouldve allowed for a 
change of SIPP provider  without the need for the account to be closed and reopened. So he 
recommended Bank of Baroda allow this and pay Mr A the difference between  what he had 
been paying in monthly  fees to his current SIPP provider and the fees he wouldve been 
paying to the new provider.
Mr A agreed with our investigators assessment. Bank of Baroda maintained its terms and 
conditions allowed it to close  and reopen  the account with a new rate of interest.  It did agree 
to allow  the change of SIPP provider without  changing  the interest rate, but it wasnt  willing  
to cover the difference in monthly fees Mr A had incurred. Mr A didnt accept this and asked 
for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so it was passed  to me.
I explained to Bank  of Baroda I agreed  with our investigator and couldnt  see why one 
trustee couldnt be removed and replaced  with another.  Bank of Baroda  explained  the 
account wasnt held in Mr As name, it was held in the name of the SIPP  provider with Mr A 
as a trustee. And so the account  wouldve  needed  to have been closed and reopened in the 
new SIPP  providers name. Bank  of Baroda agreed the trustees couldve been changed but 
said it had never received  such instructions.  Instead it had received an application  for a new 
account from the new SIPP provider. It still didnt think it should  refund the difference in SIPP 
fees to Mr A.
I responded to Bank of Baroda  explaining that I thought it was clear what  Mr A was trying  to 
achieve, and it was the communication  from Bank  of Baroda itself which had caused the 
confusion. I explained I still intended to uphold the complaint. Bank  of Baroda didnt respond 
so Ive decided  to proceed  with issuing a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN49115482When Mr A first contacted  Bank  of Baroda by email he asked if he was able to change  the 
SIPP provider on his account. He got very brief responses from Bank of Baroda  simply 
explaining there were  no charges. So an application  was submitted by the new SIPP 
provider. Ive seen  a copy of this application  form, and it isnt clear that what they wanted to 
achieve was simply changing  the SIPP provider. The application is in fact for a new account. 
But I think Bank of Baroda shouldve been aware that Mr A was clearly trying to amend the 
SIPP provider given  his previous contact  and questions. And even if this wasnt clear to 
Bank of Baroda at this time, when Mr A complained, he said in his complaint letter:
I wish to clarify again, I did not ask for the account  to be closed and reopened. All I
wanted to do is change the name of the SIPP provider,  but you are saying in order to
do this I must close the account and reopen  at a loss of interest over the next 3 years
of around £2500, effectively a charge of £2500 to change a name. This is grossly
unfair.
At this point, Bank of Baroda  shouldve realised what  Mr A was trying to achieve  and 
explained to him how to go about this. Instead,  it simply explained  that one account needed 
to be closed and another  reopened. After Mr A complained, he doesnt  seem to have 
received further  responses from Bank of Baroda.  
Ive seen the responses that Bank of Baroda  sent to Mr A before he complained.  I dont 
intend to quote them fully, but to summarise,  these are often unclear in their content, and 
doesnt answer the questions Mr A has asked or provide the information  requested.  Ive also 
received similar responses when trying to investigate this complaint  further.  Bank of Baroda  
has at separate  times told us the account  is in the name of the trust administering  the 
scheme with Mr A and the SIPP provider as trustees, and that the account is in the name of 
the SIPP provider.  Clearly these are conflicting and cant  both be true.
From what  I can see, the account name  is the SIPP trust and Mr A and the SIPP provider  
are trustees. Based on this, it should  be very simple for one trustee  to be removed and 
replaced with another, in this case the old SIPP provider being replaced  with the new one. I 
believe most of the confusion in this situation  has been  caused by Bank of Barodas 
communication. What  Mr A was trying to do was a relatively simple transaction,  which is 
fairly common in the industry, and I think he shouldve been able to do it without any 
changes to the terms of his account.
Having considered everything  I have, I dont think Bank of Baroda has been helpful when 
dealing with Mr A. It hasnt clearly noted any of its previous correspondence when 
responding to Mr As questions, nor has it clearly explained how he could achieve what he 
wanted. Had it done so and responded as it should have and explained  clearly  what Mr A 
needed to do, I think  its likely that he wouldve been able to moved SIPP provider.
Mr A says he was going to be saving monthly fees of approximately  £29 per month  each by 
switching SIPP providers.  And I think by not being able to, hes lost out on being  able to save 
this amount on a monthly basis. 
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Im going  to tell Bank of Baroda to allow  the transfer of 
SIPP provider without  having to close and reopen  the account,  or amend the interest  rate. It 
should also pay Mr A the difference  he wouldve saved in fees from one month  after the 
application to transfer was submitted by the new provider (as the transfer wouldnt have  
been instant) to the date Mr A transfers  his SIPP, and add 8% simple  interest to this. 
Ref: DRN49115483However, I think this should be dependent on Mr A transferring his SIPP  to a new provider 
within a reasonable period of time  in my opinion two months from him telling us if he 
accepts my decision is fair.
I also think the poor contact and customer service has caused distress and inconvenience to 
Mr A. A number  of his questions went unanswered and the contact was very confusing and 
unclear. So I think  it should  pay Mr A a further £200 for this.
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint. To put matters  right, Bank of Baroda should  
allow Mr A to change the named SIPP providers on his Bank of Baroda  account 
without having  to close the account and lose the interest rate he currently has on that 
account
if Mr A changes  SIPP provider within three  months of Mr A accepting this decision,  
and upon Mr A providing evidence of the previous SIPP  monthly charges and the 
new monthly SIPP charges, refund the difference in fees from a month  after Mr A first 
tried to change SIPP  providers to the date the change  is made.  It should  add 8% 
simple interest to this amount.
pay £200 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4911548