K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about Great Lakes Insurance SEs decision to decline his claim and 
cancel his unemployment insurance  policy after he made a claim.
background
Mr C took out the policy in 2014. The policy would pay a monthly benefit of £1,812 for up to 
twelve months  in the event that Mr C became involuntarily unemployed and remained so for 
at least 90 days.
In August  2017, Mr C left his employment.  He made  a claim under his policy, stating that 
hed been made redundant.  Great Lakes  accepted the claim. After  allowing for a period  
during which he was in receipt of payment in lieu of notice, as well as the 90 day deferred 
period, it paid him £1,812  benefit in March 2018.
About two weeks after making this payment, Great Lakes wrote to Mr C. It said it had made  
further enquiries and understood the information on his claims form was inaccurate and 
hadnt been completed by his former employer. It said his employment  hadnt been 
terminated due to redundancy but was terminated mutually via his solicitor  following a 
disciplinary procedure. It said this meant  his claim was eligible under the policy.  It said 
because he had provided misleading  information  it was declining the claim, cancelling the 
policy and pursuing  him for a refund of the money  it had already paid him.
Mr C complained to Great  Lakes about  its decision.  He said it was his former employer 
which had completed  the relevant part of the form stating that his employment had been  
terminated due to redundancy. He said he had acted in good faith throughout.
Great Lakes issued a final response  letter maintaining its position. It acknowledged that 
Mr Cs former employer  may have been responsible for stating on the claim form that his 
employment ended because of redundancy. However, it said the employer hadnt  stamped 
the form or provided  a letter on headed  paper, as it should have done. Furthermore, some of 
the details appeared to have been completed  in Mr Cs handwriting. It was satisfied that 
Mr C wasnt eligible for benefit,  not least because his employment was terminated  due to his 
employer taking disciplinary action against him. It said he still had to pay back the money it 
had paid him.
Mr C was unhappy at Great  Lakes decision. He referred his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
My findings  were as follows:
The policy  states  that benefit will be paid if the policyholders employment ends 
unexpectedly and due to circumstances beyond your control.
The policy states  that no benefit  will be paid in the following circumstances:
f) Claims where your unemployment is due to you breaching the conduct code of your 
employer, including  fraud, dishonesty and breach of contract, or where your unemployment 
is due to your employer taking disciplinary action against you.
Ref: DRN46929222The claim form contains a section to be completed by the policyholder. It asked the reason  
for the unemployment.  Mr C answered  redundancy. He also confirmed that he hadnt been  
at work since December 2016, eight months before the termination of his employment. He 
later explained  to Great Lakes that hed been off with work-related  stress  at the time his 
employment ended.
The claim form also contains  a section to be completed by the former employer. Mr C says 
he sent this to his former employer for this purpose. The section included the following 
questions and the accompanying answers  were provided:
Q: Reason for termination
A: Redundancy
Q: If dismissal, was this due to misconduct?
A: No
Q: If redundancy, was this voluntary?
A: No answer given
Q: Did the employee sign a compromise  agreement?
A: Yes
Q: Who first discussed the possibility of severance  by way of a Compromise Agreement?
A: Employee
Q: If the employee signed a Compromise  Agreement, had the employee  received any 
warnings in respect of their performance or were they undergoing any disciplinary 
proceedings within the 6 months  preceding the termination date?
A: No answer given
The form was in the name of a particular manager  at the employer but it wasnt  signed by 
her. The form asked for a company stamp or, failing  that, a letter on headed paper 
confirming the information but neither was provided.
After receiving the completed form, Great Lakes asked Mr C for a copy  of the compromise 
agreement which he duly provided. This said that Mr Cs employment  was terminated due to 
redundancy but it did not mention any redundancy payment. Great  Lakes then wrote to Mr C 
to confirm it accepted  his claim. 
After making the first benefit payment to Mr C, Great Lakes decided  to approach his former 
employer for clarification of the reasons his employment was terminated. The employer 
responded stating:  his employment  was terminated mutually on his request via Solicitor 
following a disciplinary procedure. It was then that Great Lakes declined the claim and 
cancelled the policy.
Mr C has forwarded copies of the emails between him and the manager at his former 
employer when he asked  that it complete the relevant section of his claim form. After  initially  
accusing Mr C of providing false information,  Great Lakes hasnt made  any attempt to 
investigate the matter further and now appears to accept that the employer  may have 
provided the relevant information.  I am satisfied that, while by his own admission Mr C filled 
in the details of the managers name,  job title and date because she hadnt  done this herself, 
the crucial answers  had been provided by the employer.
Ref: DRN46929223The first issue to determine is whether Mr Cs claim is eligible for benefit.  Given that his 
employment was terminated by mutual agreement at his request, I would normally  have 
agreed that it was reasonable  for Great Lakes to decline  the claim on the grounds  it was not 
unexpected and due to events beyond Mr Cs control. Great  Lakes, however, was made  
aware of these facts  at the time the claim was made  and didnt seek  to exclude the claim on 
this basis. I acknowledge  that the claim  form also wrongly  said the reason for the termination 
was redundancy  but I still dont see why this prevented Great  Lakes from declining the claim 
on the above grounds. The policy contained a separate exclusion for unemployment arising  
from voluntary redundancy and given it was apparent that Mr C had asked for the mutual 
termination of his contract, Great Lakes could hardly have been under the impression he had 
been made compulsorily redundant.  Given its initial acceptance of the claim, I therefore 
consider that Great Lakes  waived its right to decline the claim on this basis. 
Great Lakes has additionally pointed  to the exclusion  for when the unemployment is due to 
the employer taking disciplinary action against  the employee. Mr C says the disciplinary 
procedure ended with him receiving a written warning in July 2017. He said he had appealed 
against the warning  because  he considered it to be unjust. While Ive seen no evidence to 
show the unemployment directly resulted from disciplinary action (for example, that if Mr C 
didnt sign the compromise agreement he would  have  been sacked for misconduct), I think 
the evidence suggests an indirect  link. It appears that it was the disciplinary action which  
prompted Mr C to seek the termination of his contract. In view of this, I think  it was 
reasonable for Great Lakes to decline the claim.
The next issue to determine is whether Mr C deliberately misled Great Lakes. As far as I can 
determine, the only thing Mr C did wrong  was that he put redundancy as the reason for his 
employment being terminated. But his employer had also said this, and it was stated in the 
compromise agreement.  So I can understand why Mr C may have  answered  in the same 
way. Of course, he hadnt been made  redundant but he wouldnt necessarily know  the legal 
meaning of this term. And he had provided  all the information he had available, including the 
copy of the compromise  agreement which  made no mention of any redundancy payment. So 
I cant agree  that he deliberately set out to provide false information  so as to gain benefit to 
which he wasnt entitled. I therefore think it was unfair for Great  Lakes to cancel his policy.  It 
should therefore remove any record of this from both its own and any external databases,  
and give him the option of reinstating the policy from the date it was cancelled.
Finally, there is the issue of the payment which Great Lakes  made to Mr C but to which he 
was not entitled. While I acknowledge that Mr C had wrongly  put down redundancy as the 
reason for his absence,  I think it was largely the employers  and Great Lakes fault that it 
paid an ineligible  claim. There were clear  inconsistencies and gaps in the section of the 
claim form completed by the employer,  and this hadnt even been stamped or signed by the 
employer. Great Lakes,  however, waited over five months before it sought to clarify  these  
inconsistencies with the employer, by which time the first payment  had been  made.  If Great 
Lakes had handled the claim  properly,  it would have determined that the claim was ineligible 
before it made that payment. Given the fault lies as much, if not more,  with the employer and 
with Great  Lakes poor handling  as with Mr C, I think it is unreasonable for Great  Lakes to 
now demand that Mr C returns the benefit  it has already paid him.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Great Lakes accepted the provisional decision but pointed out it stopped underwriting  the 
policy in September  2018. This meant it could only offer to reinstate Mr Cs policy  from 
Ref: DRN46929224March 2018 (which was when  he last paid the premium) until July 2018 (when his policy 
would have expired).  Given it was unlikely that Mr C would have become eligible to make a 
claim during  this period, it doubted  that he would wish to pay premiums  for no real benefit.
Mr C accepted the provisional decision.  He noted Great Lakes comments  about the policys 
reinstatement and confirmed he didnt want to have his policy  reinstated  for the period in 
question. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Given that Great Lakes  has accepted  my provisional decision except for my suggestion that 
it should allow Mr C to reinstate the policy, and Mr C has also accepted  the decision but has 
confirmed he does  not want to reinstate the policy, I am satisfied the decision should stand 
except for my conclusion  about the offer of reinstatement which  should  be removed.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I am 
minded to require  Great  Lakes Insurance  SE to do the following:
remove any record of its cancellation  of Mr Cs policy from any internal or external 
databases; and
stop pursuing Mr C for repayment of the benefit  already  paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4692922