K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2003. Miss B says Yorkshire Building  Society  (YBS) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Miss B complained to this Service. Our adjudicator rejected her complaint. Miss B disagreed 
with our adjudicators  view and asked for the matter to be looked  at again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think YBS made it clear on the separate PPI application that Miss B didnt have  to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may 
not remember this.
 YBS probably recommended  the PPI to Miss B as a representative  completed  the PPI 
application for her. So YBS had to check that the PPI was right for her  and based on 
what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example she 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and she seems  to 
have had a need  for the cover.   
 Its possible the information YBS gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
 Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But YBS has to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because:  
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss B about  that. Because  YBS didnt tell Miss B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has offered  to pay back the amount  of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss B has said - including what she has said about her 
savings and the low PPI cover; but I havent  seen a bank statement confirming her savings 
in 2003 and her PPI application form showed  she wanted £160 cover  for the loan repayment  
which was around  £151 per month.  So these points  dont  change my decision.
Ref: DRN46468062my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Miss B any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4646806