K821x#15complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with continuing  delays in dealing with her buildings insurance claim for 
water damage by Ocaso SA, Compania  de Seguros y Reaseguros.
background
Mrs Ms claim dates  back to June 2016,  when  she made a claim for water damage to Ocaso. 
She has made two previous complaints to this service,  both concerning delays in dealing  
with her claim. Following  reviews by this service  in respect of both previous  complaints, 
Ocaso agreed to pay compensation of, respectively  £750  and £500.  Her current complaint 
relates to the period from November 2017. During that time she had to chase up the loss 
adjusters on several  occasions concerning final payments she felt were due. The loss 
adjusters were slow to reply. Mrs M has been  able to confirm to us that she has received all 
of her settlement, but she felt the continuing delays added to her stress and anxiety. She has 
previously advised  us of her health  problems.
On referral to this service,  our investigator  thought that Ocaso  should  pay a further  £200  
compensation. Mrs M was unhappy  with this, as she felt in particular that her health 
problems aggravated by Ocasos conduct of the claim hadnt been  fully taken into account.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms complaints concern Ocasos loss adjusters. From November 2017  until March 2018,  
she was sending copy invoices and receipts  and asking for payment. She sent a number of 
emails and reminders. She was promised replies  by the loss adjusters but didnt receive a 
proper reply until March  2018. It transpired  that the cash settlement she had received 
included the payments she was seeking.  I dont know why Mrs M couldnt have been told 
that in November 2017.
Mrs M has previously  been awarded  compensation for the delays in dealing  with her claim. 
She supported this with letters from her GP and consultants (which she had shown us in 
relation to her previous  complaints).  These emphasised that in her state of health, delays 
were likely to cause  her additional stress and anxiety.
I cant take account of the way Mrs Ms claim was handled  before November 2017 in any 
compensation award, as that has already been  done. But I have taken Mrs Ms medical  
issues into account, in so far as they have  affected  her in respect of the issues  considered in 
this complaint.  I do think that a payment of £200 compensation is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros to pay a 
further £200 compensation to Mrs M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Ref: DRN49351002Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4935100