K822xcomplaint
Mr M is complaining that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) cancelled his car insurance 
policy. Hes also unhappy that it didnt tell him he couldnt change the direct debit payment 
date.
background
In May 2018  Mr M took out a car insurance  policy online through  CIS. He chose the pay for 
the policy monthly. His monthly  payment  in June didnt go through.  Mr M called CIS and 
asked to change  the direct  debit payment date but he was initially  told that he couldnt  do so. 
Mr M then looked to take out a new policy online through CIS, but the policy was around 
£300 more. He complained to CIS as he says the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had 
told him that CIS was required to highlight this information when he took out the insurance 
policy. And he asked CIS to provide copies of the transcripts  of the calls hed had.
CIS later advised him that it could change the direct debit. It said it could do so by cancelling  
his insurance policy  and taking out a new one on the same terms and premium. It said it 
would waive the next monthly  instalment of around  £50. It also waived the late payment 
charge of £12.50. But in August 2018  CIS says it wrote to Mr M to say that it hadnt  been 
able to take the monthly repayment  and it asked him to contact it to make  the payment by 
23 August 2018.  Mr M didnt receive this letter  so, he didnt respond to it. CIS then cancelled  
the policy and it wrote to him to confirm it had done so.
On 5 September 2018 Mr M called CIS to complain  it had cancelled the policy as he said 
that it had agreed  to waive  the July instalment. Mr M says CIS wasnt  able to find anything  
about what was discussed at the time. Mr M then discussed this matter with one of the 
managers who agreed to provide him with 24hr cover while he investigated what had 
happened. Mr M subsequently called CIS back and explained that hed located the policy in 
question.
CIS called Mr M back the following day and explained that it was reinstating his insurance 
policy. And it offered  him £50 in compensation. Mr M was unhappy  because  he said he 
could have been stopped  by the police  for driving  without insurance.  
Mr M also complained that hed received  a letter saying that his direct  debit  payments would 
be £46.96 but the August  payment was £49.69.  CIS agreed to only charge him £46.96 for 
the remainder or the policy  in effect  a reduction of the annual  premium of £16.38. 
Mr M later complained that CIS didnt  take the August direct debit and he said his bank has 
advised him that CIS cancelled  the direct debit mandate. CIS disputes  this and said that its 
records show that it was cancelled by Mr Ms bank. But it agreed to waive the £12.50  late 
payment charge.
Finally Mr M complained that CIS didnt  respond  to his request for call transcripts  within the 
required 40 day time frame. CIS accepted this and apologised for not doing so.
Our adjudicator thought CISs offer was fair. He was satisfied that CIS had written to Mr M to 
say that it wasnt able to collect  the direct debit and advise that the policy  would be cancelled 
on 23 August 2018. But he said that CIS shouldnt  have cancelled  the policy.  He said he 
acknowledged the implications of what could  have happened, but he said that Mr M hadnt 
Ref: DRN40448052actually suffered a negative impact for the policy being cancelled. So he thought CISs 
compensation offer of £50 was fair.
The adjudicator acknowledged that there  was some  confusion when Mr M first called to 
discuss the policys cancellation. But he said the department Mr M called didnt have access  
to all of the contact notes  from the complaints department.
Finally the adjudicator said that he hadnt  seen anything to show  that CIS had cancelled the 
direct debit. He said that the letter Mr M had sent from his bank  said the direct debit mandate  
was cancelled by Mr M on 8 September 2018. He said that, although it was reinstated  on the 
same day, it was done with a final date of 10 September 2018. So he didnt think  CIS was at 
fault for what happened here.
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  so the complaints been referred to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has raised a number of points  hes asked this service to consider. Ive considered 
everything hes said, but Ive not commented  on every point hes raised.  No discourtesy is 
meant by this, but simply reflects  the informal nature of this service.
I should also set out, that this service doesnt  regulate the industry.  So its not our role to fine 
and punish businesses for anything  thats gone wrong. This service is a dispute resolution 
service and our role is to assess whether a business  has done what it should have done. 
And, if not, whether its taken fair steps  to put things right. 
There are a number of issues for me to consider  and Ill look to do so separately.
CIS wouldnt initially change the direct  debit payment date.
Mr M says that CIS should have told him before he took out the insurance  policy  that he 
wouldnt be able to change the payment date. CIS was required  to highlight key and 
significant terms to Mr M before he took out the insurance policy.  While I note Mr Ms 
comments in this respect, I dont agree that not being able to change a direct debit payment 
date would be considered a significant  term of the contract.  So CIS wasnt  required to 
highlight this. But, irrespective of this, Mr M was able to change the payment date. So, there  
wasnt anything in the contract  that said he couldnt do so.
I acknowledge that Mr M found  it difficult to change the direct  debit payment date, but Im not 
persuaded that CIS acted  unreasonably here. CIS has set out that it doesnt generally  allow  
direct debit dates to change in the first year of the policy. And I dont think this is necessarily 
unreasonable. So I dont think it was unreasonable for the call handler  to say in the first 
telephone call Mr M had that he couldnt change the direct debit payment date.
Following this, CIS took reasonable steps to look to change  the payment date. I can see that 
Mr M spoke  with a team manager who wasnt aware  that there was a process to change the 
direct debit date. But Im not persuaded that Mr M lost out as a result of this, given that it did 
Ref: DRN40448053arrange for the direct debit payment date to be changed shortly afterwards. So I think it 
acted more than reasonably in agreeing to waive the July 2018 instalment.
cancellation of the insurance policy
I note that CIS and the adjudicator have commented that its likely it sent Mr M a letter  on 
7 August 2018  advising his policy was going  to be cancelled.  But, even if it was sent, Im 
satisfied Mr M didnt  receive it. And the simple  reality is that CIS shouldnt have cancelled  
the policy. So, whether the letter was sent or not, doesnt change  the outcome of this 
complaint.
The issue  I have to decide is to what extent CIS should compensate  Mr M for whats 
happened. I note Mr M has said that he could have been stopped by the police for driving 
without insurance  and had his car impounded. And, while I dont dispute this could have 
happened, it didnt. So he didnt actually lose out as a result  of what happened.
As I said above, its not this services role to fine and punish  a business for anything its did 
wrong, but to look to see whether it took reasonable steps to put things right.  I acknowledge 
that initially CISs call handler couldnt find out what had happened.  But I can see that it said 
it would  provide him with insurance for a day while it investigated the matter. And the 
following day it acknowledged the error  it had made  and reinstated  the policy.  So Im 
satisfied that it resolved  the matter swiftly with minimum inconvenience.
However, I recognise that this matter would have  caused Mr M some distress  and 
inconvenience. But Im also conscious  that CIS waived the July payment of £49.69  and two 
charges of £12.50 for missed direct debit payments which  it was entitled to charge. It also 
agreed to only charge  him £46.96 per month rather than £49.69 per month due to the typo 
on the direct  debit letter  i.e. in effect a reduction  of the annual premium of £16.38.  And it 
also paid him £50 in compensation. So, in effect,  hes already received £141.07 in 
compensation. And I think this is in line with the amount of compensation I would have 
awarded. So I dont  think it needs  to pay him anything more.
non-payment of September  direct debit
Mr M says that his bank  has told him that CIS didnt apply for the direct debit payment, which  
is why it didnt go through. CIS has provided us with its internal records  which show that the 
direct debit was cancelled by the bank. Ive considered the letter  Mr M has provided from his 
bank. And I note it says:
we've been able to confirm that the Direct Debit mandate was cancelled  by yourself on 
8 September 2018. It was then reinstated on the same day. When the instruction reinstated, 
it was done with a final date of 10 September 2018  which would mean that this was the last 
day the company  could  request payment from it.
I think this confirms CISs assertion that the direct debit mandate  was cancelled by the bank.  
While it was reinstated, the mandate was only to run until 10 September  2018. And the next 
payment was due after this. As there was no valid direct debit mandate  for the payment 
date, CIS wouldnt be able to apply for the payment. So I cant say that CIS has acted  
incorrectly in this respect.
Ref: DRN40448054summary
While I can appreciate why Mr M is unhappy with whats happened in this matter, Im 
satisfied that CIS has fairly compensated him for whats  happened. And I dont  think it needs 
to pay him anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I think  CIS General Insurance 
Limiteds compensation offer is fair, taking into account the distress and inconvenience its 
caused Mr M. So I dont require it to pay him anything further. I understand that its already 
paid this to Mr M. But it should pay it to him directly if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4044805