K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says The Funding Corporation Limited (FCL) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
Mrs S bought the policy when she took out a loan for home improvements in 2005. The loan 
included an amount to pay for the policy. The policy protected her repayments on the loan for 
up to twelve months if she became unemployed or if she couldnt  work because of an accident 
or sickness. The policy also provided  her with life and critical illness cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint about the PPI but did uphold the complaint about 
the critical illness cover. FCL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  so the complaint has 
been passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 28 May 2019, a copy of 
which is repeated  below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision 
I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 28 June 2019.  Mrs Ss representative and FCL have 
acknowledged that they have received  the provisional decision. FCL said they had no further 
submissions they wished to make. At the time of writing Mrs S has not responded with any 
further submissions.  I consider that Mrs S has had sufficient time to make  a response had 
she wished to. So I am proceeding to my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
The policy  was sold over 13 years ago. I have  to take into account  that memories  can fade 
over time. And in cases like this, where  the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory, I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, to decide  what  is most likely to 
have happened
Im currently  minded not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint, Ill explain why. 
FCL had to get Mrs Ss consent to the cover  and to make Mrs S aware the policy was 
optional. Mrs S has said she doesnt remember anything being discussed  about  the policy.
 
FCL has provided the loan agreement from the sale. To get the PPI Mrs S had to tick a box 
for it. I note that the box was ticked and Mrs S signed the loan agreement, which suggests 
her agreement to its contents.  So, I think its more likely than not Mrs S would have been 
aware she had a choice about  buying the PPI policy and that she chose to take it out.
 
Ref: DRN41034292FCL recommended the PPI to Mrs S, so it needed to check  that it was right for her. I think  it 
was.  Mrs S was eligible for the policy and the main exclusions around employment  and pre-
existing medical conditions didnt apply to her. 
Mrs S has said that she had moderate sick pay from her employer but it wouldnt have lasted 
beyond six months, such that Mrs S may have  had to rely on her modest savings if 
something went wrong. But the policy  provided  cover for up to 12 months for a single claim. 
This cover was in addition  to any employer benefits  Mrs S wouldve had. And, potentially  it 
wouldve paid out for a lot longer than Mrs Ss sick pay would have paid out at her full rate of 
pay. I think the policy was suitable for her circumstances even  taking into account her 
existing benefits.   
I think its possible that FCL couldve explained  the cost of the policy better than it did. But 
even if it had, I think Mrs S would still have bought it. Given how long the policy could have  
paid out for, if Mrs S made  a successful claim she couldve got back quite a bit more than 
she paid for it. 
Its possible that Mrs S wouldve got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if she 
cancelled the policy early. I dont know if FCL thought about this when it recommended the 
policy, or if it explained the situation  clearly to Mrs S. But I havent seen anything to suggest  
at the time of the sale Mrs S thought  shed  repay  the loan early. So I dont think this meant 
the policy wasnt right for her  or that better information about this wouldve  stopped  her 
buying it. 
I cant be certain  that FCL provided full information  to Mrs S. But for the same  reason that I 
think the policy was suitable, I dont think better information would have  led Mrs S to avoid 
the policy. 
Mrs S has said the policy duplicated cover  she already had as she had a life and critical 
illness policy  for a significant amount of cover. Neither Mrs S nor FCL has any record  of that 
cover. So we asked the provider for some information to get some clarity on this matter.  It 
told us that at the time of the sale Mrs S had a personal accident policy which  included  total 
permanent disability cover. As the name suggests this cover is different  in nature from 
critical illness cover, so I do not accept this cover  made the sale of critical illness  cover to 
Mrs S unsuitable.
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments  from the outset in order  to decide what  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of any further 
points for me to consider,  I find no reason  to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
think the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold,  so I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  2 August 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4103429