K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a Plus packaged 
bank account  (PBA)  in October 2006.  They say that they werent given a choice, and that 
they knew nothing  about the PBAs benefits.
background
Mr S opened  a fee free account with HSBC in January 2005. In June 2006, Mrs S was 
added as an account holder, and then they jointly upgraded  to a paid for PBA in October 
2006. They  then downgraded to a fee free account in 2013.
At the time of the sale, the Plus PBA cost £12.95  per month  (although it would seem that Mr 
and Mrs S received  it at a discounted  cost for the first few months) and came with a range of 
benefits. The key ones were worldwide travel  insurance and banking benefits, namely 
cheaper overdraft interest rates and higher  interest rates on savings.
Through their representative,  Mr and Mrs S complained to HSBC, however, it found no 
significant problems  with the sale. They brought their case to our service,  where  the 
adjudicator looked at the evidence and determined  that the PBA hadnt been mis-sold. Mr 
and Mrs S dont accept that and have asked for an ombudsman to look at their case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
considering the sale of packaged bank accounts on our website, which  everyone  can read. 
Ive kept that approach in mind when considering Mr and Mrs Ss case. Having considered  
the evidence I am not upholding the complaint,  and Ill explain why.
Did Mr and Mrs S choose to upgrade the account,  knowing they didnt have to?
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives have said different things on this point during the life of this 
complaint. Initially, they said that Mrs S didnt speak  good enough English to understand 
what was happening during the upgrade, and that she was misled into believing they could 
no longer keep their fee free account.  In response to the adjudicators view, they said that Mr 
Ss English skills were  poor,  that he wanted a free account, but was only offered a PBA.
It would, of course, be difficult to rely on such inconsistent testimony. In addition, as they had 
held a fee free account with an overdraft facility for over a year before this upgrade,  I know 
they were aware  that was an option.  And given that their English skills had been  enough  to 
enable them to open a free account and arrange an overdraft limit, I dont have sufficient 
evidence to support  what Mr and Mrs Ss representatives have said about a substantial  lack 
of understanding.  I also note that they set up a savings account around the same time as 
they upgraded their current account. Therefore, I conclude that they agreed to the PBA, 
knowing that they didnt have to.
Were the benefits  of the PBA a reasonable fit for Mr and Mrs S?
Its not clear whether  Mr and Mrs S maintain that HSBC recommended the account to them;  
HSBC says it did not. In any event,  that doesnt  make a difference in this case as the 
evidence I have demonstrates that the benefits  the PBA provided were usable  by Mr and 
Ref: DRN44391902Mrs S and fitted their needs. The evidence shows that they travelled overseas, and that they 
had both an overdraft  and a savings account.  So I can see that they could  have benefited 
from all the key features  of this account.
I havent seen  enough evidence to allow me to reach  a finding that HSBC did give Mr and 
Mrs S full information about  this PBA, which it was required  to do. But that doesnt mean I 
should automatically uphold the complaint. I would additionally need  to think  that a lack of 
information has caused them to miss out  that is, that they wouldnt have agreed to the PBA 
if theyd known more  about it. But I havent seen anything which leads me to conclude  that if 
theyd had more  or better information  about  the PBA they would  have declined  to take it.
Their representatives  have said that Mr and Mrs S had no idea that the account  came with 
travel insurance. But there  has been  no mention of any failed claim, or other evidence to 
suggest that they have lost out.
So overall, I cant see that the PBA was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and HSBC doesnt need  to do 
anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 October  2019.
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4439190