K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a mortgage payment  
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs E took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 1993.  They  paid a monthly amount 
for the policy.  Although the mortgage was taken out in Mr and Mrs Es joint names, it looks  
as though the MPPI policy only covered Mr E.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why.
I should start by explaining that as its been over 25 years since  the MPPI  was sold, theres 
understandably not much information available about it from either  Mr and Mrs E, nor from 
Santander. So in reaching my decision  Ive thought  about everything Ive been told, and 
where theres a dispute, Ive considered what I think is most likely to have happened.
I think its most likely  than not that Santander made Mr and Mrs E aware that they had a 
choice about buying the MPPI, and that they chose to take it. Santander  says MPPI policies 
were generally applied for on a separate application  form to the lending  itself, and I think the 
amount of cover needed and the cost of that cover wouldve been a key feature of the 
discussion. And Santander says Mr and Mrs E wouldve  also needed to complete a direct 
debit mandate  form for the payments  of the MPPI, which were collected  separately to the 
mortgage payment.  So I think  Mr and Mrs E wouldve known the MPPI  was a separate 
product that they didnt have to sign the forms to agree  to if they didnt want to.
Santander recommended  the MPPI  to Mr E, and it seems to have been right for him based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.
I havent seen  anything unusual about Mr Es circumstances which  leads me to believe he 
wouldnt have been able to make a successful claim on the policy if hed needed  to, such  as 
a pre-existing medical condition or unusual working conditions. Mr E has said he was 
entitled to generous sick pay of over a year from his employer if he was too unwell to work. 
But as our adjudicator  also explained, I still think the policy couldve been useful. The policy  
couldve paid out for up to three  years if Mr E wasnt able to work  due to an accident  or 
sickness. It also wouldve paid out for up to a year if Mr E had lost his job. And as he doesnt 
appear to have had any other means  in place to make his mortgage repayments in that 
situation, I can see why he and Mrs E mightve  thought the policy  could be useful to them.
Ref: DRN41020832I dont know how well Santander explained  the cost of the policy. But even if it had made  it 
clear, I still think  Mr and Mrs E would still have bought it. Its also possible Santander didnt 
point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But as Ive already explained,  I think  its 
unlikely Mr E wouldve  been affected  by any of those things. So I dont think  this wouldve 
affected Mr and Mrs Es decision on whether to take it.
Ive taken into thought very carefully  about  everything Mr and Mrs E have said. But for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think Santander  mis-sold this MPPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4102083