K820x#14complaint
Mr Ks complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy with Standard Life Assurance  
Limited he was sold alongside his mortgage.  He has said he believes  he was mis-sold  the 
policy because there was a shortfall at maturity.
background
In 1988 Mr K was arranging a joint mortgage  with his brother. They were each sold an 
endowment policy for half the amount of the mortgage. The policy  Mr K arranged was a 
traditional with-profits low cost endowment. It had a basic sum assured of £11,115, a target 
value of £34,200 and a term of 25 years.
Mr K has provided a copy of an illustration  from August 1988. This is on Standard Life 
letterhead and is for a policy in Mr Ks name  with the above details. The document is 
addressed to an individual at an independent  financial adviser  (IFA) business. The document  
is detailed as having come from the enquiries  team in Standard Lifes  Watford office. 
A copy of the application form was available from the time of the sale.  This was a form to be 
used by an IFA and contained a section  in the top left-hand corner for the IFA to put add its 
name/stamp. On Mr Ks application form the box was completed by the firm of IFAs to whom  
the illustration was addressed. Standard Life has also confirmed the commission for the sale 
was paid to the same  IFA (albeit a name it changed to at a later date).
Standard Life didnt consider the complaint. It explained to Mr K that it wasnt responsible for 
the sale of the policy,  as it had been  sold by an IFA. Mr K didnt  accept this. He said there  
had been an adviser from Standard Life in the room at the time (as evidenced by an 
illustration from Standard Life) and it was that individuals advice he had relied  on when 
deciding to take the policy.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint, but agreed with Standard  Life that the 
evidence indicated it was not responsible for the sale of the policy.  As such, he didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld.
Mr K didnt accept the adjudicators conclusion. He said that whilst the policy  had been  sold 
in the IFAs office,  a member of staff from Standard  Life had been  present in the meeting. 
Mr K said he had relied on the advice given by the Standard Life member of staff,  not that 
given by the IFA, when  deciding  to take the policy out. He believes the existence of the 
Standard Life member of staff in the meeting is supported by the illustration document. 
Our adjudicator considered the further comments from Mr K, but they didnt change his mind.  
He explained  that there  was no evidence the adviser  was a direct employee  of Standard 
Life, and that is what we would need  to hold it responsible for the sale.  The evidence  
available showed  that the IFA took ownership of the advice and sale of the policy  at the time. 
Again, Mr K didnt accept  what the adjudicator said. He reiterated  that the complaint was not 
against the IFA, but the member of staff from Standard Life. He said he remembered the 
meeting well and there  were four of them in the room; the IFA, himself, his brother  and the 
member of staff from Standard Life. It was the member of staff from Standard  Life who had 
explained the illustration to them and it was that explanation  that led to the decision to take 
the policy.
Ref: DRN43148082Mr K asked whether  Standard Life was denying  that any of their employees could have 
visited the IFA from its Watford office.  He noted that Standard  Life hadnt commented  on his 
recollections when  he had made them  to it before coming to this service. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to consider.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 September 2019. In that document  I explained  my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt  of that document.  
I have dealt with many mortgage  endowment  complaints  from the period Mr K was sold his 
policy and I am familiar  with both the documentation from that time and the working  practices 
of Standard Life. Standard Life, like most  of the large life assurance companies, had offices 
in various places around the country.  There would be administrative staff in those offices, but 
also what were called branch inspectors. The role of the branch inspector  was to promote 
Standard Life policies and to provide information  and support to IFAs and mortgage lenders 
that could potentially sell them.  It wasnt their role to sell directly  to the public. 
Before the introduction of computer based  systems  to IFAs, when an IFA wanted an 
illustration for policy benefits, they would request one be produced by the local branch of the 
life assurance company.  This would be produced by the administration  staff and passed on 
to the IFA for it to use with its client. It appears that this is how the illustration  Mr K has 
provided was produced,  as it shows it was sent to the IFA from the enquiries department. If 
an inspector produced an illustration for a policy, the document was produced with the 
inspectors name on it. 
Mr K has questioned whether members of staff from Standard  Life could have been present 
in the IFAs offices.  It is likely they would have been in those offices on a fairly regular basis. 
As I have explained above, Standard Life would have had members of staff promoting their 
products to IFAs such as the one Mr K used and so they would have visited  them.  However, 
their role was not to provide  advice directly to an IFAs customers. 
Whilst I have carefully considered Mr Ks comments,  I am not convinced the other  evidence  
supports a member  of Standard Life staff being in the meeting with his IFA. The illustration is 
one that was produced by the standard enquiries  process and doesnt indicate  an inspector 
was involved in the process. And as I say, it wouldnt  be part of their role to provide advice to 
the general public.  
The application form stated the IFA was the party who sold the policy and it claimed the 
commission for the sale. This isnt something I would  expect to see if the sale had been 
made by a different business. Indeed, I would question why Standard Life would pay 
commission on a policy to a third party if it sold the policy  itself.  
Overall, like our adjudicator, I dont consider the evidence  indicates the advice  to take the 
policy in question was given by a member  of Standard Lifes staff.  As such,  I cant hold it 
responsible for the sale or the suitability of the policy for Mr Ks needs  or circumstances.
Mr K provided some additional information,  which arrived  after I had issued my provisional 
decision. This consisted of three  pages of his mortgage application. This showed that the 
mortgage was introduced  to the lender by a member of staff at Standard  Life. Mr K pointed 
out the individuals initials matched the letters that form the first part of the reference 
contained in the Standard Life illustration. Mr K went on to say it was the named individual  
Ref: DRN43148083was the one who advised him about the endowment policy  and who filled in part of the 
mortgage application too.
We sought further comment from Standard Life. It reiterated that its inspectors role was to 
support the IFA to facilitate the sale; arranging  referrals to prospective  lenders would fall 
within that remit. It didnt  consider that referral to a lender indicated  it provided  financial 
advice to Mr K. Nor does  it consider the literature provided by it for use with Mr K was 
untrue, unfair or misleading.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  the additional  
evidence from both parties, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
In my provisional decision I explained  the role of the Standard Life inspector  one of 
providing support  and technical resource to financial  advisers  to facilitate the sale of 
Standard Lifes  products.  This would have  included providing support to banks and building 
society branches in the area of his office. So the inspector  would have had contacts at those 
institutions. It doesnt seem unreasonable that an inspector would use those contacts to 
support an IFA where a home purchase  was involved. I dont think  the referral  of Mr K and 
his relative to the mortgage lender indicates the inspector gave financial advice  to Mr K. 
I know this will disappoint Mr K, but I am not satisfied the evidence indicates the Standard 
Life inspector recommended he take out the policy in question.  Whilst he clearly provided  
factual information  in the form of the quote  and may even  have  met Mr K and his relative,  
that doesnt mean he provided advice. The IFA recommended  the policy to Mr K and it is 
that recommendation that is the key to where  the responsibility for the suitability  of the policy  
lies. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint as I dont consider Standard Life is 
responsible for the suitability of Mr Ks policy. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, I am required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4314808