K820x#14Complaint
Miss L says Allianz Insurance  Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Miss L took out with a personal reserve card in 1998. Its 
been agreed that Allianz should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, Ill refer 
to Allianz in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ls case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ls complaint. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Allianz had to make it clear  to Miss L that she had a choice about it. 
But Miss L says PPI was never mentioned during the sale and she wasnt aware it had been 
added to her account.
Allianz hasnt been  able to send us a copy of Miss Ls application form for the card.  But it 
has sent us a copy of what  it says the application  form wouldve looked  like. This included  a 
section on PPI, with a box to be ticked if the customer wanted to take it out. And the section 
also gave the cost of the PPI and asked  for the customers name and date of birth to be filled 
out.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  Allianz did make  it clear to Miss L that she 
had a choice about the PPI. And that Miss L chose to take it, knowing she didnt have  to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Allianz  gave  Miss L any personalised advice about the 
PPI. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to her. This means Allianz  didnt have to check  
if the PPI was right for Miss L. But it did have to make sure she got the information she 
needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Miss L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Miss L doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover. The policy  couldve  paid out for longer than shes told us he wouldve been 
entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant  she didnt  need to rely on her savings or other 
means to make her repayments if she wasnt earning.
So it looks  like the PPI couldve  been  useful to Miss L if something went  wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. And so I dont think better information  about the PPI wouldve put 
Miss L off taking it out.
Ref: DRN40431002My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4043100