K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains about Sun Life Assurance  Company  of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life). 
Shes concerned about the advice  she received  to transfer benefits from an occupational 
pension scheme  (OPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP). 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 23 October  2019.  Ive recapped  the background below:
In July 1988  Mrs P was advised  to transfer  her OPS benefits to a PPP with Sun Life. The 
transfer was completed  in the same month.
On 10 May 2001 Sun Life wrote to Mrs P. In summary it said:
it had reviewed the transfer of Mrs Ps OPS  to a PPP arrangement with it and 
established the value of the benefits Mrs P wouldve  been entitled to from her OPS 
was greater than the value of the PPP arrangement she had in place
as it couldnt  reinstate  Mrs Ps benefits in her former OPS it proposed to set up a new 
PPP redress policy with a redress  amount of 122.02% of the total fund value  of the 
transfer as at 1 February 2001
Mrs P could  call Sun Life to discuss its offer or seek independent financial advice on 
the outcome of the review  at her own expense. On the other hand it said Mrs P could 
ask for its Head of Pensions to refer the matter to its Pensions Support  Team. Sun 
Life also said Mrs P may take the matter to the Personal Investment Authority 
Ombudsman Bureau (PIA) within six months  of its letter
On 18 June 2001 Mrs P accepted Sun Lifes offer of redress. Sun Life later confirmed Mrs 
Ps new redress policy had been set up with a payment of £3,313.87 having been  invested in 
Sun Lifes Managed  Fund.
Mrs P wrote to Sun Life on 1 May 2018 asking it to consider  the mis-sale of her PPP.
Sun Life responded to Mrs P and in summary said:
thered already been an investigation  into Mrs Ps concerns in 2001 and this had led 
to a review of her pension
as a result of the review an offer of redress was made which  Mrs P accepted  in full 
and final settlement 
having reviewed  the investigation from 2001 it was satisfied fair and careful 
consideration had been given to Mrs Ps concerns at the time
as Mrs Ps latest communication didnt  raise any new issues which hadnt already 
been addressed  it could  find no objective reason to re-investigate  the matter
Ref: DRN46085942Unhappy with Sun Lifes response Mrs P referred  her complaint to our service in November  
2018.
Sun Life didnt consent to our service considering Mrs Ps complaint, saying it had been 
referred too late. It said her plan had been reviewed and upheld with redress  paid in full and 
final settlement of the matter.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and said he thought our service  could  
consider Mrs Ps complaint. In summary  he said:
Mrs P had never actually raised a complaint  prior to Sun Lifes  2001 letter
Sun Lifes 2001 letter related to the conclusion of the pension review. At the time 
businesses werent required to include referral rights to the relevant ombudsman  
scheme as part of this review
it wouldnt be fair for this service  not to consider  Mrs Ps complaint since she didnt 
raise one in the first place
Sun Life responded and in summary  said:
it still objected to Mrs Ps complaint being considered as shed been given PIA rights  
in its 2001 letter
Mrs P accepted the redress  it offered  in full and final settlement and didnt challenge 
it at the time
as Mrs P hadnt been given fresh  referral  rights to our service it didnt believe she 
had the grounds  to refer the matter  to us. Especially  as it hadnt had the opportunity  
to try to resolve things  itself
Our investigator replied  and said he still didnt think Mrs Ps complaint  had been  brought  too 
late. He said Sun Life had already  had the opportunity to log and consider Mrs Ps complaint 
when she contacted it in 2018.  And as a final response with referral  rights to our service 
hadnt been issued the time for Sun Life to consider the complaint had elapsed.
Sun Life responded and said that although Mrs P didnt specifically raise mis-selling  as a 
concern during the Pension Review, it already concluded  the sale was inappropriate, 
redressed her for it and provided appropriate  referral rights. Sun Life said there wasnt any 
merit in any further  investigation  into what was fundamentally the same issue.  It explained 
that as Mrs P hadnt raised any new issues in 2018 she hadnt been given any new referral 
rights to our service.
Because no agreement could  be reached the matter was passed  to me. And my provisional 
findings were as follows:
We are unable to consider every complaint that is brought to us. We are bound to comply  
with the rules set in place by the Financial Conduct  Authoritys Dispute Resolution  Rules  
(DISP).
DISP 2.8.2 (1) says that were unable to consider a complaint if its referred to us more  than 
six months after the business  sends its final response letter  addressing the complaint and 
where the business doesnt consent to us looking at it.  
Ref: DRN46085943Sun Life hasnt consented  to us considering this complaint. It relies on its 10 May 2001 letter 
to Mrs P as its final response  to her complaint. It says this letter  dealt substantially  with the 
complaint Mrs P is now making, that appropriate  referral rights were  provided and that Mrs P 
chose not to exercise these at the time.  Sun Life considers that as Mrs P didnt refer her 
complaint to our service until 2018, more than six months after its final response letter, her 
complaint has been made out of time.  
I appreciate Sun Lifes point here.  But I also have to look at whether it sent a valid final 
response letter to Mrs P in 2001.  Ive carefully  considered the letter Sun Life says is its final 
response. Sun Lifes 2001 pension review  outcome  letter  concluded the 1988 advice Mrs P 
received was unsuitable and offered her compensation.  It also made reference to the PIA 
and specifically said:
You may take the matter to the [PIA] within six months from the date of this letter  () 
Please note however that the [PIA] will not normally accept a case for investigation without it 
having been referred to our own complaints procedure beforehand.
I dont think Sun Lifes 2001 letter can be considered a final response.  The wording of the 
letter effectively acknowledges that no complaint has yet been made and warns  that the PIA 
wont normally accept a complaint where it hasnt gone through Sun Lifes  own complaint  
procedure yet. Theres nothing to indicate  this happened.
Im also mindful that the review of Mrs Ps 1988  transfer was initiated  by Sun Life and wasnt  
in response to a complaint received from Mrs P. As it wasnt a final response to a complaint, 
the 2001 letter Sun Life considers a final response letter cannot be said to have started the 
six month time limit under our rules. 
Although a review  of Mrs Ps transfer was carried out this wasnt ordinarily  a matter the then 
regulator wouldve  expected Sun Life to treat as a complaint. The pension  review wasnt a 
complaints process.  It was an opportunity for consumers to find out if theyd been wrongly 
advised so that, if appropriate, they could receive  redress without the need for individual  
complaints to be raised. 
This is also largely why the normal complaints time limits were  suspended  for the time that 
this review was taking place. DISP  2.8.2 (2) says that were  unable to consider a complaint if 
its referred to us more  than six years after the event  complaint of, or if later,  three years 
from the date the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware 
they had cause to complain. 
However DISP 2.8.5R confirms that the six and three-year time limits do not run during the 
period in which a Pensions Review is being  undertaken.  
The event Mrs P is complaining about is the transfer  advice  she received in 1988.  This is 
clearly more than six years from when Mrs P first complained to Sun Life. What I need to 
consider is whether Mrs P had actual awareness or ought to have had reasonable 
awareness of her cause  for her complaint more than three  years  before she complained. 
I dont think receipt of Sun Lifes 2001 review outcome  letter would have started  the three 
year period.  Mrs P wouldnt  have  known then that she had any cause  for complaint  indeed  
the letter reassured her that the 1988  advice she received had been looked  at. Sun Life 
Ref: DRN46085944confirmed Mrs P been financially disadvantaged  and made  a payment of redress to 
effectively resolve and draw a line under  the matter.
But what  I also need to consider whether something  else during the intervening period up to 
2018 (when Mrs P complained) may have started the three  year period. From what  Ive seen 
so far I dont think I can safely conclude that there  would have been anything during this 
period that should have prompted her to complain earlier  than she did in 2018. Because  of 
this I dont currently think Mrs Ps complaint had been made outside of the three year time 
limit. 
That said,  to reach  a firm conclusion on this point, Id need to make  some further enquiries. 
Id need to look at exactly  what information Mrs P received over the years and if there was 
anything which perhaps should have made her aware she might have cause to complain 
earlier about the advice to transfer.  One thing wed look at is the statements shed have 
received showing  how the PPP (which replaced  her OPS benefits) was performing. If they 
showed the PPP was unlikely to provide  the same level of benefits  as the OPS, we might  
say (although Id stress this isnt always the case) that should have prompted Mrs P to think 
about if she should have been advised  to give up her OPS  benefits in favour of a PPP where 
her pension benefits would depend  on investment  performance. But, in view of what Ive 
gone on to say, I havent made any further  enquiries about all that. 
I note Sun Life has said it doesnt  consider it has had an opportunity to look at Mrs Ps 
complaint. This somewhat  contradicts what Sun Life has already said when it asserts  that it 
considered Mrs Ps complaint in 2001. Nevertheless, I disagree.  When  Mrs Ps complaint 
was raised in 2018 Sun Life had an opportunity to take this forward,  investigate it and 
provide a final response. It chose not to. As such I dont think  Sun Life should have further 
time to consider  Mrs Ps complaint. 
Although my current thinking is that our service can consider Mrs Ps complaint and that it 
hasnt been brought to late, I think its important that I also manage  Mrs Ps expectations. 
Even though  I think we can consider  Mrs Ps complaint I dont think  its one that would 
necessarily be upheld.  Ill explain why.
Mrs Ps transfer was reviewed as part of the Pension Review.  By way of background, in 
October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board, established an 
industry-wide review of particular pension business  transacted by authorised firms  between  
29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994.  It was generally known as the "Pension Review". It aimed  
to address concerns about the possible widespread mis-selling  of PPPs between 1988 and 
1994.
The regulator set down the broad methodology that firms who had sold these PPPs were 
required to follow when  carrying  out the review.  Where  mis-selling  was identified,  the 
regulator set down the method and assumptions  that firms had to use to determine the level 
of any redress due. 
The regulator also had inspection teams that would visit firms  to ensure that the review  was 
being carried out correctly. Many  large providers established their own inhouse  review 
teams to carry out the review.  Many smaller firms  outsourced  the review  to specialist firms  
set up specifically for the purpose of the review.
That seems  to be what happened here.  Ive seen a letter  dated  10 May 2002  from Sun Life 
to Mrs P. It explains  that the transfer  has been reviewed in line with the regulators review 
guidance. The conclusion  was that Mrs P had suffered a loss. A summary of the assessment 
was enclosed. 
Ref: DRN46085945As part of the Pension Review, firms were required to put in place strict internal and external 
quality control procedures to ensure that the reviews were  carried  out in line with the 
regulators guidance. Where errors  were  found with review work, the cases  involved would 
be reworked and additional redress paid if this was due. I conclude  that, on the balance of 
probabilities, the calculations  done were correct and in line with the guidance.
I understand this will likely come  as a disappointment  to Mrs P. But the Pension Review  was 
established by the regulator to be a one-off exercise. It was intended  to draw a line under 
any possible  mis-selling. And, where,  as here, a transfer has been reviewed in line with the 
regulators guidance I dont think it would be right to revisit the matter  again now.
I acknowledge that Mrs P might say, despite  redress having been paid, shes  still suffered a 
financial loss by transferring. But, as Ive said, the regulator set down the methodology and 
assumption firms  had to use to determine the level of any redress due. And if the 
assumptions used (which appeared reasonable or even conservative  at the time) had been 
borne out in practice, Mrs P wouldnt have suffered any loss  at her normal  retirement date 
the value of the benefits from PPP would have been  broadly equal to (or more  than)  the 
value of the benefits given  up in the OPS.   
Unfortunately, investment  returns have been  lower  than was expected at the time of the 
Pension Review. Poor investment conditions, combined with lower  annuity rates, means  an 
actual loss may have  resulted. But I still dont think,  given what Ive said about the aim of the 
Pension Review, this means that the matter  should be looked  at again.
I invited both Mrs P and Sun Life to comment on my provisional decision. 
Sun Life confirmed it received my provisional decision but made no further comments.
Mrs P didnt respond to my provisional  decision or follow up correspondence and provided 
no comments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision  remains as before (and as set out above). This means Im not upholding Mrs Ps 
complaint for the reasons Ive given. 
I sympathise with Mrs P and understand why shes unhappy with Sun Lifes  calculation  and 
the Pension Review outcome. As Ive said unfortunately  much of the assumptions used to 
calculate the future loss, with hindsight, were  wide of the mark. But this was the then 
regulators decision on how to deal with the mis-selling problem. And so its not something 
this service can now challenge or ignore.
I realise Mrs P will be disappointed with my decision but as Ive already explained, based on 
everything Ive seen I am not persuaded to direct Sun Life to meet  Mrs Ps request for it to 
review the 1988  advice  she received again. The Pensions Review  was an industry wide 
standardised process and Sun Life complied  with this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN46085946Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4608594