K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Zenith Insurance Plc wrongly avoided his motor insurance policy (treated it as 
though it had never existed) and wouldnt reconsider its decision.
background
Mr F called his broker on 25 September 2017 to add a van to his policy  from the next day. 
Mr F had agreed to buy the van from Mr A. Mr F told the broker when asked that he (Mr F) 
would be the vans registered keeper. The policy documents he was sent shortly  afterwards 
stated that he was the registered keeper.   
In November 2017 another insurer told Zenith that the van had been involved in an accident 
with another vehicle. Mr F told Zenith  that he was away at the time. He said Mr A had taken 
the van back, as Mr F still hadnt paid for it, and was driving when the accident took place. 
The police later charged Mr A for driving  without insurance (but not with theft). 
Zenith said Mr F couldnt show that he was the vehicles registered keeper when he bought 
the policy - or even  at the time of the accident two months later.  It said hed made a careless 
misrepresentation at the start by saying hed be the vans registered keeper.  It said it 
wouldnt have offered him cover had it known the facts, so it had the right to avoid the policy.    
Mr F had trouble finding affordable insurance,  so he asked Zenith to reconsider its decision.  
He provided part of a V5 registration  document that showed his name  as the vans 
registered keeper.  But it didnt show when  the transfer to him took place. Zenith asked  Mr F 
to provide proof of that by contacting the DVLA,  but he didnt do so. 
Alternatively, Zenith said it would reconsider its decision  if Mr F could show he owned the 
car. He didnt have  an original receipt,  but he sent Zenith a note he said was from Mr A 
(written two years after he acquired  the van). The note said Mr F had done so for £1,500  in 
September 2017. But Zenith didnt think it was adequate evidence of ownership.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Fs complaint. She noted  that Mr F had told her he 
hadnt paid for the van even at the time of the accident, which is why Mr A had taken it back.  
She also said Mr F hadnt shown the date on which he became  the vans  registered keeper. 
So she thought Zenith had acted  reasonably  in avoiding  the policy. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  a 
consumer must take reasonable care not to misrepresent the facts. 
Ref: DRN45296112If an insurer can show that it was given incorrect details, and that it wouldnt have offered 
cover had it known the true facts,  it may be able to avoid  the policy and not pay any claim 
made on it. But it can only do so if it can show first of all that it asked the consumer a clear 
question. It then has to show that the consumer  gave it the wrong answer  to the question  
and didnt take reasonable care in replying.  If the insurer  can show  the consumer gave it the 
wrong information deliberately or recklessly  - not caring whether it was correct or whether it 
was important to the insurer - then it may avoid  the policy and retain the premium.  
Zeniths underwriting criteria show that it would have been  acceptable  to Zenith  had Mr F 
been the vans registered keeper even if he didnt  own it. But Zenith didnt think that was the 
case. In January 2018 Zenith asked Mr F why hed taken  out insurance  when  it seemed  he 
wasnt the vans registered keeper or owner. Mr F replied by letter  to say hed acquired the 
van after paying half its purchase price. He said that was done  .on the understanding that 
as soon as paid for in full the log book would be registered in my name. So by Mr Fs own 
account, until that point he would not have been  the vans registered keeper - or its owner. 
Zenith requested  the call recording from 25 September 2017 from the broker to show  the 
question Mr F was asked about  who was the registered keeper. The broker  provided  a 
transcript that showed that Mr F was asked Will you be the registered keeper ? and that he 
replied Er, yes. So I think the question put to Mr F was clear, and he hasnt suggested  
otherwise. I think it was fair for Zenith to say his reply to the clear question wasnt correct. 
In my opinion, Mr F didnt take reasonable care in answering the question, and I think  his reply 
to Zeniths query in January  2018  is evidence of that. As he hadnt paid for the van when he 
bought the policy, despite having the use of it, Mr F knew he didnt own it. And he told Zenith  
he wasnt going to get the log book (and become  the registered keeper) until hed paid for the 
van. Despite that, he told the broker he was the registered keeper in September  2017.  
Mr Fs name  was then shown as the registered  keeper in the policy  documents.  At that point, 
he could have explained the situation to the broker or to Zenith, but he didnt. And since then 
Mr F has said he still hadnt paid for the van when the accident happened  (two months later) 
which is why Mr A had taken it back. So based on his own account,  Mr F couldnt have been  
the vans registered keeper until after November 2017.
In my view, it was reasonable for Zenith  to query  the partial  V5 document Mr F later supplied  
and to ask him for proof of the transfer  date. Zenith told Mr F it couldnt access  the details  from 
the DVLA directly, due to data protection restrictions.  I think  it was his duty to co-operate with 
Zenith and to take steps to prove when he became the vans  registered  keeper.  The partial V5 
says that Mr F acquired the van on 30 September 2017 (although  that date conflicts with the 
one shown on the purchase  note). And Mr F still didnt provide any proof  about  the date of 
transfer. Without it, I think its fair to say that the evidence points to him not being the vans 
registered keeper  until some point after the accident.
I think it was reasonable  for Zenith to avoid the policy. I think  it has shown that it wouldnt have 
offered cover had it known Mr F wasnt the vans registered keeper or owner. Mr F didnt 
provide the evidence Zenith quite reasonably required  of him to prove otherwise. 
As Zenith thought Mr F had only been  careless  in providing the wrong  information,  he was due 
a refund of the premium. It advised him to contact the broker about that, which  I think was also 
reasonable. As I dont think Zenith acted unreasonably in any respect, I cant uphold  Mr Fs 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN45296113my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4529611