K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2007. Miss H says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  her PPI.
background and summary to complaint
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Miss Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover arent disputed. So I havent repeated  all of this information  here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  
Miss Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Hs. I havent  set out that detailed  
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Miss Hs 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided BoS didnt need to tell Miss H about 
the commission it received - so BoS doesnt  need to pay back  any of the commission  Miss H 
paid for the PPI. But in any event BoS has offered  to pay back  some of the cost of the PPI, 
so I dont think it needs to do anything more.  Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think BoS made it clear that Miss H didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because while BoS no longer  has a copy of the paperwork from the 
time of the sale, it has referred us to some example paperwork, which it says is 
representative of what Miss H wouldve seen when she took out her policy.  And looking 
at this I think it wouldve  been  clear to a consumer  that they had a choice about PPI and 
they had to agree to take it out.
Ref: DRN42186272Im mindful too that in Miss Hs case, her existing mortgage (which  began in 2001) didnt 
have PPI protecting it because she chose not to take it out as recorded  in her 
application. So I find it unlikely  that Miss H wouldve been under the impression  or 
been given the impression by BoS  that she had to PPI when she took out this further 
lending some years later.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of anything  to persuade me that 
Miss H saw something very different when she took out her policy, I think  its likely she 
chose to take the policy out and did so without  undue pressure.
Miss H says she didnt receive  advice.  But BoS says it recommended the PPI to Miss H. 
Given BoS says that it provided  advice, I think its likely Miss H was advised  to take out 
PPI. So BoS had to check that the PPI was right for her. And the evidence about  Miss 
Hs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt  fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for her. For example Miss H was eligible for the cover and although she had 
existing means at her disposal  she still seems  to have had a need for cover  for 
example the policy  wouldve paid out longer than she wouldve received full sick pay for 
and her statutory  redundancy entitlement was significantly less than 12 months  income. 
There was nothing about Miss Hs employment  or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim.  Although Miss H says she had a medical condition some  time 
before the policy was taken out (around  24 years prior) Im not persuaded the policy  was 
unsuitable for her. 
I say this because  Miss H hasnt said or implied  that her condition  caused her ongoing 
problems or affected  her ability  to work closer to the time of the sale such  that it seems  
likely her condition would  be the main reason she need to claim on the policy. Im mindful 
too that the existing medical condition  was time limited - BoS couldve considered  a 
claim for Miss Hs condition had she remained symptom free and not seen a doctor  
about it during  the 24 months  prior to the claim. Its also the case that Miss H couldve 
claimed for other things. 
So taking all of this into account - coupled with the fact that the policy was protecting her 
mortgage payment  and ultimately her home - I dont  think it was wrong  for BoS to have  
recommended it to Miss H.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Miss H as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar  to what she reasonably  thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable   so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think  Miss H 
would have declined  the cover had BoS done anything  more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Miss Hs particular circumstances  at the time of sale and despite  its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for her. 
So I think she would have  still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
Ref: DRN42186273Overall, I consider it more  likely than not that Miss H would have still taken out PPI. The 
policy was sufficiently close  to what she thought  she was getting, and I think  the policy  could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that she would have taken out the policy in 
any event.
Miss Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Miss Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Hs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but in 
any event BoS has offered  to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it 
needs to do. My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Miss Hs representative has made  a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary  they have  said Miss H should get back all the money she paid for the policy  
because: BoS failed  to tell Miss H about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value,  I should  find that Miss H wouldnt have  taken out the policy  had 
they known about the level of commission and she should receive  a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN42186274But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for Miss Hs PPI was less than half of 
what she paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how BoS has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Miss Hs case was less than 
half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BoS needed  to tell Miss H about  the commission. So it follows  that I dont think  
the non-disclosure created an unfair  relationship - I dont think BoS treated Miss H unfairly. 
This means  BoS doesnt  need to pay Miss H back any of the commission she paid for the 
PPI. 
But in any event BoS has offered to give Miss H back some of the cost of the PPI and 
compensate her as if it had treated her unfairly.  So I dont think  it needs to do anything  more.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Miss Hs complaint  or make any award  in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank  of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission  
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Miss H paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland Plc has offered  to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss H. BoS 
should now make  arrangements to pay Miss H if it hasnt done  so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4218627