K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S applied  for a mortgage  with National Westminster Bank Plc and were unhappy 
with the conduct of the surveyor appointed to value the property, and the report she 
produced. They say NatWest has treated them unfairly by basing its lending  decision on that 
valuation.
Whilst the mortgage application - and therefore complaint - was in joint names, Mr S has 
been the party weve been  dealing with. For ease Ill simply refer to Mr and Mrs S throughout 
this decision but that should be taken to mean just Mr S where  appropriate.
background
Mr and Mrs S applied  through a mortgage broker for a mortgage with NatWest for a 
new- build property  they were looking  to buy. Theyd agreed a purchase price of £755,000.
When the valuation  was  arranged, it seems there may have been some confusion. The 
surveying firm have said the appointment was booked  for the morning,  whereas  the 
development company said it was booked for the afternoon.
Mr and Mrs S say they were told by the builders  on site when the surveyor arrived  in the 
morning that she seemed  flustered, upset  and angry  as there was no showroom and the 
developer wasnt  on site to give her the paperwork she needed.  They say the surveyor  was 
in a bad mood and couldnt be bothered to correctly value the property, and after the 
surveyor spoke to the developer on the phone she left the site. In an email to their broker  
they expressed their concern about  the valuation being affected by someones emotions.
The surveyor said she visited the site to carry out a valuation  which  would be based on 
information provided by the developer, but the developer was obstructive so she left. The 
information she needed was provided the next day, although had to be returned as it wasnt 
completed correctly. The report  was then provided the following week and valued  the 
property at £700,000.
Mr and Mrs Ss broker put forward an appeal based  on other properties  in the area. The 
surveyor didnt accept  the comparable evidence as persuasive as she said the properties 
listed werent completed sales, whereas the comparable properties shed looked  at were 
completed sales and were nearer.
A further  appeal was put forward as the report was based on the property having  four 
bedrooms, when  it was to be a five-bedroomed property. The surveyor questioned this as 
the site staff had told her it was a four-bedroomed property. She reviewed the plans and said 
the fifth bedroom  was off to the side and had limited head height. She said,  having reviewed 
the comparable  evidence again, that she was satisfied her original valuation figure was valid.
Unhappy with this Mr and Mrs S complained to the surveying firm and NatWest. They also 
applied for a mortgage with a different lender and that has all gone  through with the 
valuation coming  in at the £755,000  needed.
Neither business upheld their complaint  and Mr and Mrs S have said theyve complained to 
the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS)  without  success.
Ref: DRN43182912Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to us saying they paid an early repayment  charge of 
£13,000-£13,100, a valuation fee of £750 (both  of which  they wanted refunded)  and they 
were abroad  when the problem came to light so it ruined their £10,000 holiday.
NatWest told us the early  repayment charge was £12,884, the valuation fee was £627, and 
that it felt both were  correctly charged. Our investigator said we couldnt  deal with a 
complaint about  the surveyor, only about  NatWests  actions  or inactions. And having 
considered the complaint he thought NatWest hadnt done anything  wrong.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
I trust Mr and Mrs S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute  resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  point 
its not because  Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.  
NatWest doesnt  have the expertise  to value property, so it employs the services  of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified  surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled in this case  by appointing  a member  of RICS. NatWests not accountable 
for the conduct  of the individual  surveyor or any action (or inaction) by the surveyor  or the 
firm she works for. 
NatWest is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant  consider 
complaints against  it for things a separate  business  did (or didnt do). The surveying firms 
complaints process  comes under RICS  as Mr and Mrs S know  as they say theyve already 
exhausted that process. All I can consider against NatWest  is if it discharged  its duty in 
instructing a suitable firm of surveyors, and having  considered everything Im satisfied it did.
Mr and Mrs S say NatWest could have done more, such as instructing a second survey 
which they say they  and/or the developer  were willing  to pay for. They also say NatWest 
shouldnt have based its lending decision on a flawed survey.
Ive considered these  points  carefully.  Ill start with the second point as that crosses over a 
great deal into an area we cant look at  that is, the back and forth dialogue between the 
independent surveyor  and NatWest. Mr and Mrs Ss arguments were put to the surveyor  and 
she stood by the valuation figure shed given. Thats all NatWest can do as the surveyor  is a 
suitably qualified professional and NatWest  is entitled to rely on her advice and opinion.
Mr and Mrs S have  said there wasnt a valuation  as the surveyor didnt actually go into the 
property. I can reassure  them thats  not unusual  for new-build properties so isnt at all 
concerning, nor does  it indicate the report is flawed.  Its fairly standard  for new-build 
developments to be valued off-plan. Its unfortunate the builders told the surveyor  it was a 
four-bedroomed property rather than five, but the surveyor considered  that change  of 
specification in the second appeal  and confirmed it didnt alter her valuation figure as shed 
looked at comparable four and five-bedroomed properties. NatWest was entitled  to rely on 
that confirmation.
Ref: DRN43182913I understand why Mr and Mrs S feel a second valuation would have helped them, but I can 
also understand why NatWest said no to that. Even if a second  valuation had been carried 
out and came in with the property valued  for the purchase price, why should  NatWest 
consider that second valuation more valid? Mr and Mrs S may say that the first valuation 
was flawed, but it went through the appeals process and the surveyor  reconfirmed the figure  
based on everything Mr and Mrs S said. 
Even if a second valuation had been carried out and it had come in at the purchase price, 
Im sure Mr and Mrs S can see why NatWest  would be concerned  about lending  them  a fairly 
high loan to value based on a valuation figure  that an earlier  surveyor had said was far too 
high.
NatWest instructed a suitably qualified surveyor, it went through  the correct  appeals process, 
and it was entitled to rely on its commercial discretion to not instruct  a second valuation.
Having considered everything  I dont think NatWest needed to do any more. So, while  I can 
appreciate that the process may have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs S, I dont feel I can 
reasonably conclude that this was the fault of NatWest.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4318291