K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs B says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs B has said it wasnt  made clear to her that the PPI was optional.  Ive seen a copy  
of Mrs Bs credit  card and PPI application. The form has all of Mrs Bs details and I 
think its likely it was completed  at the meeting. So I think  its a reasonable reflection 
of what Mrs B discussed with RBS at the time of sale. On the form Mrs B ticked  next 
to the statement YES, please protect  my payments  now to indicate  that she wanted 
to buy the PPI. She didnt have to do this if he didnt want  the PPI. So I think  RBS 
made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs B got the information she needed  to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And 
Mrs B says she wouldve got some sick pay from her employer. But the PPI policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay she might have got. So given what 
Mrs B has told us about her sick pay entitlement  I think she still couldve found the 
policy useful. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  RBS didnt  tell Mrs B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN47333202RBS has to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back to Mrs B any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
RBS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mrs B the difference between 
what Mrs B owes and what she wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS should also pay Mrs B 8%* simple  interest  
if she paid off her credit  card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs B can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs B any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4733320