K821x#15complaint
Mrs H has complained about her home insurer Allianz Insurance Plc in respect of a claim 
she made to it when a toilet  cistern  cracked  and water damage occurred.
background
On 2 February 2017 Mrs H found  water dripping in her drawing room, she discovered the 
cistern in the bathroom above had cracked.  There was damage  to the bathroom floor and 
walls, as well as to the ceiling, walls, curtains and carpets  in the drawing  room,  along with 
some belongings in there  too. She made a claim to Allianz.
Allianz appointed a loss adjuster and he visited Mrs Hs home on 10 February 2017. His 
report records that he has appointed F to restore  contents  items.  He doesnt clarify  what  is 
to happen regarding the repair to the damaged parts of the building.  
The property was due to be dried  around  20 March 2017, and the relevant rooms  were 
cleared with items going into storage, or being taken by F for restoration. In a further report 
from the adjuster  dated 13 April 2017 he notes that he has authorised F in respect of both 
the buildings  and contents reinstatement work. Around this time F began asking Mrs H for 
wallpaper choices   she had high quality  silk paper,  this proved difficult  to source and it 
needed specialist  installers to fit it. The type of paper  also meant all other repairs,  including  
the fitting of the carpet, needed to be done first.  
By August 2017 Mrs H had found  a wallpaper she was happy with and Allianz was prepared  
to pay for. F was preparing to fit the paper  towards  the end of October but it was noted  that 
Mrs H hadnt yet chosen a carpet.  By December 2017 matters had not moved on and Mrs H 
raised concerns  with F and the loss adjuster that her floor was damp. The carpet in the room 
had been removed in March  leaving bare floor boards sitting  on a concrete slab.
F attended  the property  in January 2018 to look at the floor.  It wasnt  persuaded the floor 
was damp  due to the water leak and told Mrs H she would have to resolve  the issue  before it 
would fit the carpet and paper the walls. Mrs H obtained two reports, one from a flooring 
specialist and one from a woodworm expert.  Both reports noted damage to the floorboards  
and indicated this had likely been caused  by the leak. The flooring  specialist  also looked at 
the slab and said he felt this had been damaged by standing water   likely as a result of the 
property not being dried  properly. The reports were sent to Allianz.
The loss adjuster asked for details of moisture readings taken during the early stages of the 
claim. F said Mrs H had instructed a drying contractor M, it had only become involved in 
reinstating the buildings damage  later. In May 2018 F told the adjuster that what had 
happened at the start of the claim was now immaterial as it had acted to replace the 
floorboards anyway. It provided an invoice for this work, which  included  the cost of treating 
woodworm. F reported that, by June, it was ready to lay the carpet.
In October  2018 Mrs H, via her broker, raised further  concerns with the loss adjuster. She 
said she was worried about the state  of the slab  that F had not dealt with this issue. It was 
agreed that F would re-attend. Around this time Mrs H also noted that the replacement F had 
undertaken had involved  it fitting  plyboard in place of the damaged timber floorboards.  
Following its visit F agreed to swap its installation  for floorboards  as had been there 
originally  but maintained that it had not been responsible for drying the property and that 
the damage to the slab was likely the result  of a pre-existing damp issue.
Ref: DRN44473262Later Allianz  agreed  to appoint a surveyor to give a specialist opinion  on the cause of 
damage. However, in January 2019, before matters progressed in that direction, it issued a 
final response to the concerns Mrs H had raised. Its content reflected Fs position  on the 
matter. It clarified that once the works had been done Mrs Hs contents would be returned.  
Mrs H was unhappy, she didnt think it was right the claim was still going  on after two years. 
She also didnt agree  with Allianz  regarding  the drying of the property  she said she had not 
instructed anyone and, in fact, no drying  had ever taken place. When she complained to us 
she explained the toll this had taken on her. She said because all her contents had been 
taken away shed been left to sit in her kitchen or in bed for the last two years. She said her 
health had been affected by all the stress shed been under and she provided a letter from 
her doctor. Mrs H said she wanted the claim to be completed to her satisfaction  and for 
compensation to be paid.  In terms of compensation Mrs H told us shed be looking for at 
least £25,000. Later, her son, who has represented her at times, said compensation should 
be based on a portion  of her mortgage  costs, plus an amount to reflect  her poor health  so 
£72,000+.
Our investigator did feel Allianz had failed Mrs H, but was aware  the claim issue  had since 
moved on. In terms of compensation for upset  caused by its failures, he felt it should  pay 
Mrs H £2,000. 
Allianz said it agreed with the findings. Mrs H did not. She felt the compensation was 
insufficient. The complaint was passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My background above summarises the 
events which  took place. My focus  is on the key aspects and events which  have impacted 
the claim and/or caused upset. But I have read and understood everything.
I think Allianz did fail Mrs H on this occasion. Like our investigator,  I think things should have 
resolved long before Mrs H felt the need to complain to us. For example, I note that Allianz  
has latterly instructed a surveyor to determine  the damp issue.  The appointment of the 
expert means it would  be inappropriate for me to offer any view as to Allianz liability  for 
resolving it. But I do think Allianz should  have acted  much earlier to appoint  an expert to 
determine the matter.  Mrs H had raised  a serious  concern about how the property had been 
dried and provided  expert reports which appeared to support her concerns. The reasonable 
response at that time, given F had already denied liability and given its view on the cause of 
damage, would  have  been to appoint an independent  expert. But that didnt happen. Proper 
management of the claim  at this time would  likely  have shortened  its lifespan  dramatically.  
I think that in the first year of the claim,  2017, there were likely some  problems  in 
progressing it which were  beyond Allianz  control. But I bear in mind that as early as 
July 2017 Mrs H raised concerns with it about  how the claim was progressing.  I accept she 
went to a lot of effort to obtain updates.  Broadly  speaking I think it couldve been managed  
better during this period   if it had, the delays wouldnt have been so protracted. 
Throughout all of this Mrs H was without her contents items. I accept this was upsetting and 
frustrating for Mrs H and likely did affect the way she lived and used her home. 
Ref: DRN44473263Ive seen the letter from Mrs Hs doctor. Sometimes  the evidence  I see from doctors is not 
very compelling  often  ailments are listed and theres no clear  detail about what  caused  
them, or the effect any on-going claim might  be having. But here Mrs Hs doctor explains the 
illnesses or conditions have either been  caused  by stress, or where Mrs H has suffered from 
them previously, they have been  exacerbated by stress. In his opinion the situation with the 
claim has contributed hugely to her current poor health.
Having seen everything that went  on here, I am satisfied  that Allianz should pay Mrs H 
£2,000 compensation. I see it has agreed to that and I think that reflects the fact it accepts 
that its handling of this claim has had a severe  impact. 
I appreciate that Mrs H feels the sum is insufficient,  and that she wants tens of thousands of 
pounds in redress. Whilst not wishing to take anything away  from what Mrs H has felt and 
experienced, I have  to explain  that sums like that are not in line with awards generally made 
by this service. For example, whilst  the least Mrs H has asked for is £25,000, it is only in the 
most extreme of circumstances that we make awards of £5,000. Mrs H has been through  a 
lot and much  of it could  have been avoided if Allianz had handled things better. But when 
I make  an award, I have to take into account  our guidance and awards made in similar 
circumstances. Having  done that, Im satisfied that £2,000 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances here.   
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Allianz  Insurance Plc to pay Mrs H £2,000  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4447326