K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that about the lending that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) made to him. This 
complaint deals with his overdraft.
background
Mr C said that he was given bad advice by BoS about consolidating his debts, then allowed 
to borrow again.  He has complained to our service  about a mortgage,  a loan, a credit  card 
account and an overdraft. He wants BoS to accept that it gave him bad advice, and to pay 
him compensation. 
Mr C has told us about difficulties with his personal and family circumstances, which mean  
that he is facing  a likely reduction in his income.  He has told BoS about  these problems, and 
in response it has brought his existing debts  in house. It says that it wont  involve agents in 
collecting on these debts  in future. It also froze the charges  on his current  account in July 
2018, and it said it would  like him to set up a repayment agreement.   
In addition, Mr C has told BoS that he has a gambling addiction. He says hed told BoS 
about that in 2010, when he went into a branch to extend his mortgage,  so he thought  it 
shouldve taken that into account each  time he asked it to loan him more money. He said 
that the lending that BoS had made  had only fuelled  this addiction, and he thought  that BoS 
was partly responsible  for that. 
BoS said it didnt  think Mr C had told it that he had a gambling addiction  before 2018. It said 
that it doesnt monitor its customers accounts  to see what they are spending their money on. 
But BoS said that it had lent Mr C some money,  through a loan, in 2014. It thought that this 
loan was intended to pay off his credit card, and his overdraft. But it hadnt reduced  his 
overdraft or his credit card limit then. BoS said that when Mr C started to use his overdraft 
and his credit card again, the total amount of lending he then had may have become 
unaffordable for him as a result. 
So BoS did something about  that. It said that it would refund all the overdraft and credit card 
charges it had applied to Mr Cs current account and credit card account since  July 2014. 
Separately, it had also offered to refund just the overdraft  fees.  That meant  that BoS was 
actually refunding  £418.83 more than Mr C had been charged.  But when it realised that, it 
said that it would pay all the money  it had offered him. 
BoS used some of the refund to repay all of Mr Cs credit card borrowing, and it closed his 
card account. It used the rest to repay  part of Mr Cs overdraft, and it reduced his overdraft 
limit at the same time. 
BoS said that Mr Cs current account  is in arrears,  and it will still take recovery action on the 
remaining amount  that he owes. 
BoS also told us that Mr C had had an overdraft  on his account for some time. But it would 
only consider lending decisions it had made after 2012. It thought that it was too late now for 
him to complain about earlier  overdraft lending decisions. 
Ref: DRN41841462Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that Mr Cs overdraft was increased 
from £2,000 to £2,600 in October  2014, but he said that BoS had checked, and the lending 
was affordable for Mr C at that time. 
Our investigator said that BoS shouldve significantly reduced Mr Cs overdraft a few months 
earlier, when he took out a loan to clear the overdraft lending. Our investigator thought  that 
BoS made a mistake  when it failed to do that. But he said that BoS had refunded all of the 
fees that Mr C had paid on his overdraft  since that loan was made, in July 2014. And he had 
been refunded  an additional £418.83. So our investigator thought that BoS had done enough 
to make up for what had gone wrong. 
Our investigator said that he couldnt  see any evidence that Mr C had told BoS about  his 
gambling addiction  before 2018. So he couldnt  say that BoS had done anything  wrong.  
Mr C didnt agree with that. He said that BoS has been harsher on itself than our service 
has. He wanted an ombudsman to consider  his complaint, so it was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
The overdrafts on Mr Cs account that Im aware of date back to 2011. Our service has 
explained to Mr C that we cant consider, as part of this complaint, lending  made  to him that 
long ago. But Mr Cs overdraft increase from £300 to £2,000  made in October 2012, and the 
subsequent increase to £2,600 made  in October 2014, can be considered as part of this 
complaint. 
Ive asked BoS whether it has any records of Mr C telling  it that he had a gambling problem 
before 2018. It says it doesnt. And I havent been able to identify any evidence that Mr C did 
tell it this earlier. But BoS has now shared with our service the statements from a cardcash 
account, which over the six years  preceding  this complaint seems  to have been used almost 
exclusively for gambling transactions. Although BoS says it doesnt  micromanage its 
customers accounts, it would be difficult for me to conclude both that BoS wasnt aware  that 
Mr C was spending substantial sums  in this way, and that it shouldnt  have  been  aware  of 
that. 
However, BoS has also said that gambling is a legal  and legitimate form of entertainment.  I 
dont think that BoS shouldve  refused to lend to Mr C, solely  because  it could  see that he 
was spending  money on gambling  transactions.
I can see that Mr C has mentioned when talking to BoS about  the lending  it made  to him, 
that he has previous  had arrears, defaults,  and two attempts to repossess his home. I dont 
know when those problems happened. I can see that Mr C had problems repaying debts 
after 2015, but I dont have evidence  to suggest  that he was having financial difficulties 
before this.
So I asked  Mr C if he would share with our service  his full credit file, so I could consider his 
overall borrowing  position at the relevant time,  when I looked  at each decision that BoS had 
made to lend him money.  Mr C has sent us an overview of his credit file, but not the full file. 
Ref: DRN41841463So I dont  have the detail which would allow me to see his overall credit position  when he 
made lending  applications to BoS. 
Our service has explained to Mr C that without this, we wouldnt be able to double-check 
whether BoS took account of the wider picture when it lent him money.  Mr C has asked us to 
go ahead  and make  a decision on the basis of the evidence we have, so I will do that.
Ive said that Im considering two increases to Mr Cs overdraft. One of those was made  in 
October 2012, when  his overdraft was increased  from £300 to £2,000. The second  was in 
October £2,600  when  his overdraft was increased from £2,000 to £2,600.
BoS has repaid  all of the fees that Mr C paid for overdraft  borrowing after July 2014, 
because it said that it shouldve removed his overdraft then, when it made a loan to him that 
was supposed  to be used to clear  that overdraft.  Thats what Id expect BoS to do, if it wasnt 
sure that it had lent this money responsibly. I think  that provides a fair outcome to that part of 
Mr Cs complaint. 
So the main issue  I have to consider is whether BoS shouldve  lent Mr C money by 
increasing his overdraft in October  2012. 
BoS has sent calculations showing Mr Cs overall financial position when it agreed to 
increase his overdraft.  I can see that he owed money to a different bank, for a credit  card,  
and to BoS for a loan. But it appears to me, from the information  I have, as if BoS has a 
clear view of the amount  of money  Mr C was being paid at that time, and the lending that 
had already been made to him. And it looks as if there was then some surplus which could  
be used to repay a larger overdraft. I dont think that I can say, on the information  I have, that 
its more likely than not that this overdraft wasnt affordable for Mr C. So I dont  think that BoS 
has to do anything more.  
I know that Mr C will be disappointed by my decision about the overdraft lending made to 
him, but I dont think that I can conclude that BoS acted irresponsibly by extending his 
overdraft in 2012. 
I do think that BoS made a mistake when it failed  to reduce Mr Cs overdraft in 2014, even 
though it had made him a loan intended  to pay that overdraft off. I also think it made a 
mistake when it subsequently allowing him to extend  the overdraft further. But I think  that 
BoS has accepted that. And it has already done what  I would expect  it to do, to make up for 
that. So I dont  think it has to do any more now. 
Im sorry  to have to tell Mr C that I dont think his complaint about the overdraft lending made 
to him by BoS should be upheld. 
Ref: DRN41841464my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4184146