K821x#15complaint
Mrs S has complained that Unum Ltd has declined a claim she made  on her employee group 
scheme  income protection policy.
background
In 2017 Mrs S became absent from work after her husband was diagnosed with cancer.
Mrs S has explained what  an incredibly difficult time this was and how she became 
extremely depressed  and anxious  as she tried to care for her husband.  Sadly in 2018 Mrs S 
husband passed away. 
During this time Mrs S contacted Unum to make  a claim on her income protection policy. 
She explained that she had been unable to work  due to the high levels  of depression  and 
anxiety she had been dealing with. She was devastated by her husbands illness  and 
eventual death,  was extremely distressed and struggled to cope with life in general. She has 
said she was unable  to return  to work  as she wasnt able to concentrate, complete the tasks 
of her job and would become tearful  and upset easily.
Unum reviewed Mrs S claim but declined it on the basis that she wasnt incapacitated at 
the time as per the policys terms and conditions.  It sympathised with her situation and 
agreed it was likely she wasnt able to work at the time due to the enormous  pressure she 
was under. However, it maintained that the reasons  why Mrs S was unable to work werent 
covered under her policys terms and conditions. Instead it said it would expect her employer 
to provide support to her through  an internal  a bereavement policy as opposed to an income 
protection policy. 
Mrs S disagreed with Unum and said she was incapacitated at the time. She provided a 
medical report from an occupational health consultant which  she says states she was 
suffering from depression  and so should be considered as being incapacitated. She 
expressed concern  that her decision not take anti-depressants at the time was being used 
against her and that her GP notes were being relied on by Unum despite her beliefs that 
these are an insufficient representation of what was happening at the time she was unable to 
work.
I issued a provisional decision on Mrs S complaint on 28 February 2020. In it I said Unum 
was wrong to decline Mrs S claim as I felt there was sufficient evidence on file to show she 
was incapacitated as per the policys definition and as such it should honour her claim. 
Mrs S didnt raise any further  points  after receiving my provisional  decision.
Unum responded  to my provisional  decision  by repeating that it didnt believe there was 
sufficient evidence to show that Mrs S was incapacitated as a result of clinical  depression, 
but instead she was unable to work  due to the understandable levels  of grief and anxiety she 
experienced due to her husbands  illness and passing. However it didnt offer any new or 
additional evidence  to support this and so my position remains the same.  I have repeated 
the rationale as set out in my provisional decision below. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im going to uphold 
Mrs S complaint and Id like to explain why.
Ref: DRN49673712Looking at the policy terms, which Unum has relied on to decline the claim, I can see that a 
person is incapacitated if they are:
unable, by reason  of their illness or injury,  to perform the material  and substantial  
duties of the insured  occupation,  and are not performing that occupation.
It is clear from the information  provided  by both Mrs S and Unum  that she was unable  to 
perform the material and substantial duties of her role at the time. The occupational health 
report provided by Mrs S indicates that she tried to return to work at different times but this 
was ultimately unsuccessful as she would become tearful and overwhelmed and was unable 
to concentrate on her work. I dont think there is any doubt in either partys mind  that during 
the time she tried to claim on the policy Mrs S was unable to fulfil her duties  at work. 
The issue  seems to be what caused Mrs S to be unable to work.  Unum have said that the 
reason Mrs S was unable  to work was due to the understandable stress  she experienced 
while caring for her husband and the grief she suffered after he passed away. It has said that 
there is no official clinical diagnosis of depression or any other medical condition that 
prevented her from returning to work. Without  such a clinical  diagnosis it has said the 
problems Mrs S were experiencing arent covered  under her income protection  policy and 
she fails to meet the definition of incapacitated  as set out above. 
However I disagree with Unum on this point. Looking at both the GP notes and those of the 
occupational consultant  Dr V, I think there is sufficient evidence to say that Mrs S was 
suffering from depression  and so meets the definition  of incapacitated. 
Looking at the GP notes in the first instance  I can see that Mrs S GP offered  her a 
subscription of anti-depressants. Mrs S decided not to take these as she had concerns  about 
some of the side effects they can cause, particularly  impairing her ability  to drive. As the sole 
carer of Mr S at the time Mrs S has said she didnt want  to risk taking anything that could 
prevent her from being able to drive in an emergency. However the important thing to focus 
on here is her GP offered  Mrs S anti-depressants  because she was struggling, was anxious 
and depressed. Mrs S decision  not to take them doesnt negate her doctors belief that 
medication for depression may have been  of benefit to her at the time. 
In addition to this Dr V, who spoke to Mrs S on multiple occasions,  has repeatedly said he 
believes she was depressed. He assessed Mrs S on four separate  occasions  both while  her 
husband was ill and after he had passed  away. Dr V has said in his report to Unum:
I formed the opinion  that she was medically unfit to work. This was not best understood as 
a lifestyle choice. I was of the opinion that she was both anxious and depressed, and these 
were reasonable responses to her situation  at home
Dr V refers to two different tests he completed with Mrs S at different times when he 
assessed her and says these results strongly indicated she was suffering from depression. 
He then goes  on to say
The vast majority of individuals I see with depression have this condition as a result of a 
reaction to adverse life events. The depression can be described as reactive.  To suggest  
that because there  were  adverse personal  circumstances she was not unwell is nonsensical.
Ref: DRN49673713It does seem likely  that if Mrs S husband  hadnt become unwell she wouldnt have become 
depressed and wouldve continued  to work  without interruption. However this doesnt  mean  
that the symptoms  Mrs S experienced  should be simplified as purely linked to bereavement 
and not the result of a genuine medical condition. The policy  doesnt  place conditions around 
why or how policy  holders  become  ill, just it requires that they are ill and that illness is 
preventing them from working.
Unum has also raised the point that as well as not taking any medication  Mrs S also wasnt  
under the care of a specialist.  However  Dr V has commented on this point saying:
In my opinion it is entirely reasonable  for her to be under GP care,  rather  than requiring 
specialist input from the psychiatric services. I view it as appropriate that she has had 
counselling, although I note that this was not beneficial to her. 
Indeed I can see that Unum arranged for Mrs S to receive counselling through her work 
cover which I believe  further  indicates she was unwell, unable to work  and genuinely  
depressed at the time. The cause of the depression should not be the focus of the claim, it 
should be enough that the medical experts  who were caring for Mr S at the time have 
confirmed she was depressed. 
I think there is ample evidence from the consultant Dr V, and in the GPs notes, to show  that 
Mrs S was depressed and that depression, that illness, prevented her from being able to 
work. As such I think  that Unum was wrong  to deny her claim for the reasons given and that 
it should now reconsider her claim as though the above exclusion does not apply.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I am upholding Mrs Ss claim. To put things right Unum  Ltd 
should:
accept the claim and pay benefit in accordance with the remaining policy terms. 
Unum Ltd should add interest to the benefit  payments  at the simple  rate of 8% 
calculated from the date each payment was due until the date of settlement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4967371