K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold an Ultimate Reward 
Current Account (URCA) packaged bank  account to him in 2009. 
He has also complained that he tried to downgrade the account in 2013  but was unable to 
do so. Finally, he is unhappy with the service he received from BOS during the complaint 
process.
background
Initially BOS objected to us looking into this complaint as it believed  that due to the 
timescales involved this complaint  was outside this services  jurisdiction.  An adjudicator 
looked into this and they did not think that this was the case.  BOS  therefore withdrew this 
objection and the case was passed to a different adjudicator to look into the mis-sale.
The adjudicator that looked at the sale of the URCA didnt think BOS  had mis-sold  the 
URCA. Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  what to do about Mr As complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I dont think BOS  mis-sold the URCA to 
Mr A. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mr A was given  a clear choice in taking this account.  At this 
point, I should  explain that I have to make my decision based  on what  I think  is most likely to 
have happened, having weighed up what both Mr A and BOS have been able to provide  me 
with.
From what  Ive seen, Mr As account  was opened as a fee-free  account.  So I think Mr A 
wouldve been aware that free accounts  existed and were  an option for him. Mr A has said 
that his account  was just changed without his permission. I can see though that Mr A did 
sign a form to change  his account  to the URCA,  so I am satisfied that he agreed to the 
change. He also has not explained what he was told that made him believe that fee-free 
accounts were no longer  an option for him. Overall,  I think that its more likely that Mr A 
agreed to the upgrade knowing he did not have to, as he was attracted to the benefits  it 
came with. Let me explain  why.
When the URCA was taken out, some of the benefits that it came with included  travel 
insurance, breakdown  cover, mobile phone insurance and a £300 interest free and fee-free 
overdraft facility.
I can see that Mr A was using his overdraft when he took out the URCA. At this time BOS 
was charging its free current  account holders £1 a day overdraft usage  fee to use an agreed 
overdraft. URCA  account holders didnt need  to pay this fee, if they kept to their individual  
agreed limit as well as the overall  URCA limit of £300. Looking at Mr As usage  of his 
Ref: DRN41320712overdraft, I believe that this benefit  wouldve been  useful to him. Additionally, Mr A says he 
did travel  and therefore I think he couldve used this benefit if he wished to do so. 
I therefore think that Mr A took out the URCA knowing  he did not have to, as he intended to 
use the overdraft  and, by taking out the URCA, he would avoid some  of the overdraft fees 
and be able to use the travel  insurance  if he wished to do so.
BOS says it didnt recommend the URCA.  And I havent seen  anything  here to suggest      
Mr As needs were assessed  before  the URCA was sold,  which is what shouldve  happened 
if the account was recommended. So overall, I dont think that BOS  did recommend the 
URCA to Mr A. This means it didnt have to check if the URCA was right for him. It was up to 
Mr A to do this. But BOS did have to give him clear enough  information to enable  him to do 
so. I think its likely Mr A was provided  with information on the main  benefits included on the 
URCA. After  all, BOS  was persuading him to upgrade to a fee-paying  account when he knew 
he didnt have to. Mr A may not have been  told everything about  all of the benefits that the 
account came with. But I cant see anything specific that he was not told about  that I think  
wouldve altered  his decision to agree to the account.
Mr A has explained that he tried to cancel the account in 2013  but was told that he had to 
keep it as he was self-employed.  I have looked  at the banks notes from this time and there 
is no record of a request  to downgrade and the only record from 2013 seems to have been a 
discussion about opening an ISA. So overall there  is not enough  for me to say that its more  
likely than not that BOS  did anything wrong  in relation to this.
Mr A may now, with the benefit of hindsight, think he shouldnt have taken out the URCA.  
And given  what he mightve  read about  packaged accounts in general, I can understand why 
he believes  his URCA mightve  been mis-sold. But I think Mr A freely chose to take the 
URCA having a decent appreciation of what it included, and I dont think  that BOS mis-sold  
the account.
In relation to the service that Mr A received from BOS during the complaint process,  I can 
see that it credited  Mr A £50 for this. I dont think that BOS needs to do anything  more in 
relation to this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr As complaint about the sale of his URCA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4132071