K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited wrongly sold him an unsuitable 
long-term savings plan.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 13 December  2018. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Sanlam disagreed with my decision, and said:
The product  literature states  that the optimal  timescale for the policy is 20 years so 
my statements  that it needed  to be maintained  for 25 years or more are inaccurate
Given that Mr D kept his policy for17 years he was not far from the recommended  
timescale when he surrendered it
The set-up charges  would have been  recouped in the first 18 months so having  kept 
it for 17 years he hasnt been  unfairly  disadvantaged
It was his decision to surrender  it when he did, and there is no evidence  to conclude 
that he was told it was suitable for encashment at that point
His representatives comments  about  why he kept the policy  for so long are almost  
word for word  the same statements it provides whenever it presents a complaint 
about this savings plan
The fact that Mr D kept it for so long - in order to achieve a meaningful return - 
would tend to suggest that he understood very well that it was a long-term product 
which required long-term funding to be worthwhile
The circumstances of any consumer  might well change over a 20 year period but 
there is no evidence  to show that in Mr Ds case  contributing  £50 per month  would 
prove unaffordable
If, as suggested, there was a possibility he might wish to start a family  then building 
up a lump sum for use in the longer  term would  not have been unreasonable.  Indeed,  
it could have provided a cash boost as his children entered  adulthood a time when  
many families  would  welcome  funds  for higher education or to help them  get on the 
property ladder
There are literally  dozens of perfectly  legitimate reasons for someone such as Mr D 
to save over longer  timescales
Given the relatively low amount being  invested  compared to Mr Ds high income 
level, this didnt  preclude from making  other  shorter term savings or investments
I said that the advisor needed  to be certain Mr D wanted to make  a long term 
commitment, but he was as certain  as he could be given  Mr Ds circumstances at the 
time of sale. There is simply  no evidence that the term was misrepresented and the 
brochure clearly  refers   to the full benefit  and worth being realised after about  20 
years
There is no evidence to show why Mr D surrendered it when he did, but it is 
interesting to note that it was mid-2007, a time when there were huge  concerns about 
investment risk and performance in general
Mr Ds representative referred to the emergency  scenarios as short to medium  term, 
yet this categorisation is entirely  an assumption on his part. The examples of 
emergencies given  could occur in the longer  term, and if Mr Ds circumstances had 
changed over the years (and money  was tighter due to family commitments,  changes 
in earnings etc.) then having a longer-term  fund for such emergencies would not be 
an unreasonable or unsuitable precaution to take
Ref: DRN41412482The brochure goes  on to talk about more  pleasurable  expenses  such as buying a 
retirement home or giving the children a flying start in life, both of which would clearly 
have been long term, so it does not agree that this gives  an impression the policy  
was suitable for encashment over shorter  timescales
In any event, Mr D kept the policy for 17 years so he did not actually  encash  it for any 
short-medium term needs. In addition to indicating  a timescale of 20 years the 
brochure also states with an aim of achieving the highest possible long-term 
returns and As with any long term contract, so it disagrees  that the average 
consumer would  have  been given the impression  that this was intended as anything  
other than a long term policy
There is no record of whether other options (such as the Investment Programme, 
which I alluded to) were discussed;  but of course  there was no requirement to record  
discussions of other  products at the time. It notes  my comments about the relative  
charging structures of the two products and Mr Ds representatives comments about  
the commission available but it doesnt  accept this advice was unsuitable for Mr D or 
that he was misled into how long the plan should be held for
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having read and considered Sanlams 
recent comments I am still satisfied that this complaint  should  be upheld,  and for the reasons  
I outlined in my provisional decision.
Fundamentally, I do not agree that it was good  or appropriate advice to recommend a 
savings plan that needed to kept for the long-term, whether this was at least  20 years  or 25 
years, particularly given  that Sanlams predecessor company  (and therefore this advisor) 
marketed a much shorter and renewable term savings plan. This would,  in my view, have 
clearly been a better fit for Mr Ds circumstances. It would have given him the freedom to 
cash in his savings  plan, after a five or 10 year period  depending  on the plan chosen, if and 
when his circumstances, ambitions or objectives  changed. This plan was unnecessarily  
restrictive
Even if Mr D had kept the plan for 20 years  this, in my view,  would  not have rendered it a 
suitable recommendation back in 1990   and for the reasons I outlined in my provisional 
decision. It may be, as Sanlam, argues, that Mr D surrendered  this plan due to either 
performance concerns  or wider anxieties about  the financial markets.  This does not affect 
the issue of whether the original advice  was suitable.
As Sanlam  recognises  there is understandably very limited information about  what  
discussions took place  at the time of sale. So its comments about the advisor being as sure 
as he could be that this was a suitable  recommendation  can only be speculations. There  is 
no evidence as to whether  the advisor mentioned  the existence of much shorter, flexible 
savings plans which could  be cashed in far earlier than 20 years  and without any financial 
disadvantage. But I can see no reason why Mr D at 31 would  have chosen  an exclusively 
long-term savings plan if presented with such an alternative unless there  was clear 
advantage to this long-term  plan. Sanlam has presented  no evidence to support this notion.
Finally, I remain  convinced  that the brochure was at best ambiguous and arguably 
misleading. Sanlam  admits that this savings plan needed to be kept for a minimum of 20 
years for maximum benefit  yet the brochure refers to events which  are clearly not exclusively 
long-term in nature. These include a family emergency, storm damage, a new car, a home  
Ref: DRN41412483extension and a holiday of a lifetime. There is no reason to assume that a customer  would  
only want or have need  of these things at least 20 years in the future. In my view these  
words and phrases  give the impression, by failing  to explicitly  clarify this issue, that this plan 
would be suitable  for medium  if not short term emergencies and treats.
I therefore uphold  this complaint and instruct Sanlam to compare the return  Mr D achieved 
when he surrendered this investment in 2007 with what he would have got if investing the 
same sum in its 10 year (reviewable) savings plan. If this shows a loss it should add 8% 
simple interest per annum to this loss from the date of surrender to the date of settlement of 
this complaint.
my final decision
I instruct Sanlam Life & Pensions  UK Limited to pay compensation as outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN41412484provisional decision
complaint
Mr D complains that Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited  wrongly sold him an unsuitable long-term  
savings plan
background
Mr Ds representative said:
There is no evidence of a requirement for the client to have a savings contract of such a long 
term nature
There is no evidence of other  savings  options being discussed
There is no evidence of the client having  adequate deposit-based  emergency savings. The 
client requested a payment holiday after less than 18 months which suggests he didnt have 
adequate savings
When the policy was first recommended, the client was 31 and single with a strong likelihood 
that his circumstances would  change  over the medium  term. Therefore he shouldnt have 
been recommended  such  an inflexible  contract
The term of the policy was misrepresented as being a medium-term savings plan,  as 
evidenced by the length of time it was maintained. Its charging structure ensured it was 
unlikely to have any meaningful value  unless maintained  for the long term
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint should be upheld.  He noted that due to the 
time that has elapsed since this policy  was surrendered in 2007 there is a lack of evidence available 
from the time of sale of the policy, making  it difficult to be certain of Mr Ds circumstances at the point 
of sale.  But, judging by the length of time he kept the policy (around 17 years) he wasnt persuaded  
Mr D was only looking  for a short to medium term policy.
He thought the product  literature made clear that it was designed for the long term,  with the full benefit 
and worth being realised  after about 20 years. He couldnt be certain whether alternative products 
were discussed but felt that if Mr D didnt want a long-term product there was no obligation for him to 
proceed.
He also noted that the payment holiday was for a specific reasons and that Mr D then continued 
regular payments  for another15 years. He said Mr D had a good income  at the time and the monthly 
premium was relatively low compared to this so he could  have built up deposit-based savings 
elsewhere. Even if his circumstances did change significantly, its unlikely that he wouldve had to 
stop paying  towards this investment as a result - which is evidenced  by him retaining  it for around 17 
years.
Mr Ds representative did not agree, and said:
The client  maintained  the policy  for 17 years in the hope  of a meaningful return, not because 
he was satisfied with it
He didnt  complain about the yield of the contract because, as you will be aware, performance 
in itself is not grounds for complaint as it is an asset-backed investment
This type of policy  was routinely sold as suitable for the medium term as it attracted far 
greater commission than the firms  10 year savings plan
The brochure is clearly confusing as it contradicts this noting several short to medium term 
situations: "....you have  to build a safety  net of savings to help you cope with those  
unexpected and unbudgeted expenses which  afflict us all from time to time. The cost of 
coping with a sudden family emergency. Repair  bills for storm damage to your home  or 
garden. Loss of income due to accident or serious ill-health....Looking  on the bright side you 
will also want to build up your resources for more  pleasurable experiences. That new car you 
Ref: DRN41412485have always promised yourself. An extension to your home. A retirement  cottage  or perhaps 
a holiday of a lifetime. Or simply  cash to provide  your children with a flying start in life
This implies  that the policy can be used for short or medium term emergencies despite the 
charging structure making short/medium term surrender of the policy highly  inappropriate
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I acknowledge that there is understandably limited documentation surrounding the original sale and 
advice. But I am still satisfied there is sufficient  information to reach a fair decision based on the 
balance of probabilities.
Firstly, I am satisfied that the charging structure only made this investment  suitable as a long-term 
savings plan (25 years or more) such that an advisor need  to be fairly certain that their client wanted 
to make such a long term commitment for it to be a suitable recommendation. 
Even from the little that is known of Mr Ds situation  he was 31, single and with no dependents  I 
think it was unlikely that he was fairly certain that he wanted to make a 25 year plus time commitment 
to a savings plan.  While he was earning  a good salary, there was no guarantee this would continue  or 
that family commitments at some stage might change his financial priorities.  So I cannot see how the 
advisor could reasonably have concluded this was a good recommendation, particularly when  other 
shorter term, and renewable, plans  were available at the time  and via the same business.
These would  have provided a comparable  savings/investment opportunity  without the very significant 
downside of the charging structure of this plan. I also share  Mr Ds representatives concerns  about  
the, at best, ambiguous nature of the brochure which references a variety of uses  for this savings plan 
which are not, in my view, compatible  with the long-term nature of the charging  structure.
I therefore  intend  to uphold this complaint and instruct Sanlam to compare the return  Mr D achieved 
when he surrendered this investment in 2007 with what he would have  got if investing the same sum 
in its 10 year (reviewable)  savings plan. If this shows a loss it should add 8% simple interest per 
annum to this loss from the date of surrender to the date of settlement of this complaint.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Sanlam to pay compensation  as outlined  
above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4141248