K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland unfairly 
increased the interest rate on their mortgage.  They dont think the bank has the power to act 
in the way it did.
background
Mr and Mrs M have  a mortgage with BoI, which they took out in 2004  on a repayment basis. 
A year later,  they changed it to interest  only.
The interest rate applicable to their mortgage  was a tracker rate set at a margin  of 1.75% 
above the Bank of Englands base rate. In 2013,  BoI wrote  to Mr and Mrs M giving them  
notice that it intended to change the tracker margin from 1.75% to 2.49% in May 2013, and 
then to 3.99% in October of that year. This would increase the rate Mr and Mrs M were  
paying from 2.25% to 2.99% and then 4.49%. As their mortgage was interest  only,  this would 
have a significant impact  on their monthly  payments.
Mr and Mrs M complained. They said the increase wasnt fair. And, in any case,  they said, 
the bank didnt have the power to make the changes  it did. Their  representative  accepted 
that the power was in the 2004 mortgage offer. But, he said,  when Mr and Mrs M moved to 
interest only terms in 2005 they took out a new mortgage which replaced the old one. And 
the mortgage paperwork they were  sent in 2005  had no power to change the margin.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld so Mr and Mrs M asked for an 
ombudsman to review  their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think the bank has acted unfairly by increasing the margin  in the way it has. Ill explain 
why.
Increasing the margin was an unusual move  by the bank. I can understand why it could be 
seen to be unfair. So weve very carefully  looked  at whether the bank has acted fairly and 
reasonably  including whether it had the power to do what it did. Weve also taken  into 
account the law, regulators  rules and the requirements of good industry practice.
did the bank have the power to increase the margin?
The power to change the tracker margin is set out in the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage Mr and Mrs M took out in 2004.  Ill set out the terms in more detail below, but in 
essence the mortgage offer said the margin could be changed  provided it was for one of 
the reasons specified in the terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  accepts that there was that power in the 2004 mortgage. But, 
he says, that mortgage ceased to exist in 2005.  In 2005 Mr and Mrs M took out a new 
mortgage on interest only terms  and that mortgage had no equivalent  power.
Ref: DRN40414162Ive carefully considered  what the representative  has to say about this, and Ive looked 
carefully at the evidence  and the documentation. Having done so, I dont agree that Mr and 
Mrs M took a new mortgage  to replace  their old one in 2005. I think  they made a change  to 
their existing mortgage  they changed  the repayment method, but it was fundamentally the 
same mortgage.
The regulator requires  a mortgage  offer document, in a prescribed format  and with 
prescribed information, to be sent out whenever a new mortgage is entered into  including 
where the new mortgage is a replacement for an old one. No such document was sent in 
2005  there  is no evidence  of it in the banks records, and Mr and Mrs M havent provided 
one either.
The only document from 2005 is a letter from the bank to Mr and Mrs M. It has their 
mortgage account number as a heading and says We acknowledge your request to change 
the repayment method on the above  mortgage account. Throughout the letter, it refers to 
changes and amendments to the mortgage; nothing in this letter leads me to believe that the 
existing mortgage  account was to be closed and replaced with a new mortgage agreement. 
This was a variation of the existing mortgage  agreement, not its replacement with a new 
one.
So while I agree that the 2005 letter  unlike  the 2004 mortgage offer  contains nothing  
about situations where the bank might  change the tracker margin, I dont find that surprising. 
It wasnt an offer of a new mortgage, it wasnt a change to the terms and conditions,  it was 
just a change  to the repayment method. It didnt supersede the 2004 mortgage offer and the 
terms and conditions Mr and Mrs M were given at the time, and so those documents remain  
the underlying  contractual basis of their mortgage.  The power the bank relied on to change 
the margin is contained in the 2004  offer and the terms  and conditions.   
did the bank tell Mr and Mrs M that it might increase the margin?
Im satisfied that the bank took reasonable steps  to tell Mr and Mrs M that it could change 
the margin. It said that it might do so on page  five of the mortgage offer that Mr and Mrs M 
accepted.
did the bank act in the way it said it would? And did it have a valid reason to increase the 
margin? 
I think it did. I say this because:
The mortgage offer said the margin could be changed under condition  4(10)  of the terms 
and conditions.
Condition 4(10) said that the bank could  increase the margin  for a number of reasons
One of the reasons in condition 4(10) was if the bank needed to increase the amount we 
receive from borrowers in order to maintain  a prudent  level of profitability  or reserves. 
The bank said it was increasing the margin to maintain a prudent level of profitability and 
reserves.  It said that its funding costs had gone  up compared to the interest rates on these 
mortgages. It also said that it had to hold more capital.
Ref: DRN40414163The bank has given  us details of its financial position. Weve looked carefully at this 
information. Ive also taken account  of the old and new rules  the bank has to follow.  Im 
satisfied that the banks  funding costs had gone up relative to the interest rates on these 
mortgages. Im also satisfied that the capital requirements placed on the bank  had changed 
 meaning it needed to hold more capital. 
After careful thought  and on balance, Im satisfied  there was a need for the bank to increase 
the margin to maintain a prudent level of profitability  and reserves . So it was reasonable for 
it to increase the margin, and there  was a valid reason to do so which  was set out in the 
contract.
did the bank act fairly and reasonably?
The bank hasnt  applied  this increase to all of its customers. Some  of them  dont have the 
necessary term in their contracts. I can see how it could appear that some borrowers are 
paying more than others to make up the money the bank says it needs to raise  on its tracker  
mortgages. For the increase to be fair, it shouldnt go further than it needs to for affected  
customers.
Ive looked at whether the bank  needed  to increase the rate by the amount it did. It says it 
needed to increase the rate to make  the mortgages profitable  and it has given us evidence  
to show this. The new interest rate wasnt out of line with other rates  available.  I also know  
that the bank has put up interest rates for some other customers.
I also bear in mind that by this time Mr and Mrs M werent subject to an early repayment  
charge, and there was nothing in the mortgage agreement that would have prevented  them 
taking a different  interest rate with BoI, or moving  their mortgage to another  lender, if they 
werent happy with the change.
Ive already found that the bank needed to make an increase. With that in mind,  I think  the 
banks actions were  reasonable. I havent  seen  anything  to suggest that the bank increased 
the rate to try to make  an unfair profit  and the evidence we have suggests it hasnt gone 
further than it needs  to. It made the change relying on the 2004 mortgage  offer and the 
terms and conditions issued at the time. In all the circumstances,  I dont  think  it acted 
unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4041416