K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Santander UK Plc wont transfer her mortgage on to its Follow On 
Rate (FOR). Shes unhappy that, because of Santanders actions, shes  paying more  
interest on her mortgage every month  than if she was on the FOR. She says shes  trapped 
on its Standard  Variable Rate  (SVR).  
background
Mrs D has a joint mortgage  with her ex-husband Mr D. The mortgage was taken out in 2006. 
The mortgage was changed from a capital  repayment  mortgage  to an interest  only mortgage 
in 2008. 
Mr and Mrs D have now separated, but they are still in contact with each  other. Mrs D says 
shes paying the mortgage and has done  so for the last couple of years.  
Earlier in 2018 Santander said she could  transfer  her mortgage onto its FOR, as long as she 
wasnt in arrears. However, when Mrs D completed  the paperwork for her mortgage to 
change to the new rate, Santander  said it couldnt do so without Mr Ds signature.
Mr D has been given  this paperwork  on more than one occasion  but it hasnt been  returned 
signed to Santander. Santander is now saying it cant change  the mortgage  onto the FOR 
without Mr Ds agreement.
Mrs D brought her complaint to us. Our investigator  thought Santander should allow Mrs D to 
have the FOR and it should pay her £200  for the trouble and upset  it had caused  by not 
doing this sooner. Santander disagreed with the Investigators view and asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision on the matter.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision dated 25 January 2019 which  set out my initial thoughts  on 
this complaint. I didnt  think the complaint should be upheld.
I sympathised with the situation that Mrs D finds herself in. I was persuaded shed shown us 
that she was the person paying  this mortgage  and has been for some  time. Shed also 
explained the financial pressure she was under and how important it was to her that she 
pays a competitive rate of interest  on her mortgage.  
I could see why Mrs D felt Santander  was being difficult and why she had questioned  what 
Santanders motivations  were for not helping her in this way. However, I was also mindful  of 
Santanders situation too. Mr and Mrs D took out this mortgage jointly and severally. Mr D 
might not have been making the mortgage payments in recent years, but he remains  jointly 
liable for the borrowing. Because  of this, his consent  is needed  before  any changes can be 
made to the mortgage.
Mrs D had said that shed  given copies of the forms to be completed  to Mr D. Santander  had 
also tried to engage with Mr D to get the paperwork signed too. Despite these attempts the 
forms havent been signed by both account  holders. 
Id also considered Santanders  contact  with Mr D, and whether Mr D has lost touch with 
Santander as a customer. It seemed  he hasnt.  I didnt  think it was unreasonable that 
Ref: DRN46049512Santander was concerned  that Mr D might not want the FOR on the mortgage  because he 
hadnt signed and returned  the forms to agree to this change.
Overall I didnt think it was unreasonable that Santander had said it wouldnt change the rate 
of interest,  and underlying terms and conditions of this mortgage without the agreement  of 
both its account  holders.  In the wider  circumstances, I thought  it was fair that Santander was 
considering what  both its customers wanted  rather than the request of one account holder 
only.
Mrs D had said that Santander had made changes to the mortgage before with only one 
account holders  permission. She remembered  this was the case  when the mortgage  was 
converted to interest only around  ten years ago. Santander had shared paperwork from the 
time the mortgage  be converted to interest only. This paperwork was signed  by both Mr and 
Mrs D. I wasnt  aware of any other  time Santander  had changed the mortgage with the 
consent of only one account  holder. 
Santander had explained what the consequences could be if Mr D were to subsequently ask 
that the mortgage rate was changed  back to the SVR or unwound  if it were to be changed 
to the FOR  without his consent. If he asked for the rate to be unwound retrospectively, this 
would put Mrs D into arrears (as she would  have been making lower payments to the 
mortgage each  month). I thought this could potentially lead to Mrs D being in a worse 
financial position in the future.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs D replied to say she was disappointed with my decision  and that she asked me to 
reconsider. Mrs D responded to say, in summary:
-she thought  Id emphasised that she was in financial difficulties but this was only a 
temporary situation. Mrs D doesnt need the FOR  because shes in financial 
difficulties but she does want her payments to be lower so she can rebuild  her 
creditworthiness more  quickly;
-shes concerned  that Santander are benefitting  from a higher rate of interest;
-while Mr D is on the mortgage,  the interest rate doesnt affect him as hes not making 
any contributions and it wouldnt be to his detriment for the mortgage payments to be 
lower and kept up-to-date for Mrs D;
-shes been told by her solicitor that if the property was sold in the future  Mr D would 
still be entitled to equity from the sale;
-she believes Mr D is not in touch  with Santander  and hes refused to pay his half of 
the mortgage payments; and
-Santander told her in 2018  it would  only be the ombudsmen that could force the 
lower rate which  is why shes brought the matter  to us.
Santander had no further comments to make.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular, Ive reflected  on everything 
Mrs D has said in response  to my provisional  decision and reconsidered  this complaint 
again. I can totally understand why Mrs D feels  my provisional decision is unfair and I dont 
underestimate her strength of feeling on the matter.
Ref: DRN46049513I appreciate the points  that Mrs D has made.  Its really encouraging to hear that Mrs D has 
had legal advice  and that she is making  progress with respect to improving her financial 
position and applying for a mortgage  in her sole name. 
Mrs D has said Santander led her to believe that the ombudsman  service could force  it to 
give her a lower rate of interest on her mortgage.  I can see why this makes it all the more  
disappointing for her complaint not to succeed  now. 
At the heart  of this complaint is what the two mortgage account  holders have asked  
Santander to do. It shouldnt  be for me to force Santander to change a mortgages terms 
and conditions because  there is a dispute between the two account holders.
Mrs D has queried whether Mr D is in touch with Santander. Im not at liberty  to divulge what  
contact Mr D might have  had with Santander. But Mrs D has said herself that shes given 
paperwork to change  the mortgage to the FOR  to Mr D and hes refused to sign it. It isnt that 
Mr D is absent and uncontactable.  Mr D is still present and involved  albeit he isnt 
contributing to the mortgage payments anymore. 
I'm sorry to disappoint  Mrs D, but in the wider circumstances of this particular  complaint,  I 
consider that Santander has acted fairly in refusing to change the terms of this mortgage 
without the agreement of both the account  holders. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4604951