K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about how Santander UK plc has dealt with payments he made to it for a 
debt.
background
Mr K has been making payments of £20 a month for a Santander debt for about seven 
years. He says he has not missed a payment but realised in 2018 that Santander hadnt 
been applying  those payments over the last 12 months to that debt. Mr K says he spoke to 
Santander and discovered that the payments had been sent back to his account under the 
reference Bank credit IPA Loan  account.  Mr K also says his account was then transferred 
to a third party company  which  cant be a coincidence. He would like Santander to credit his 
account with the missing  payments and review how it deals  with this sort of issue  and says 
he has been caused stress and worry.
Santander upheld  Mr Ks complaint in part. It accepts it should have raised a complaint when 
Mr K raised this issue and has paid £50 compensation for that. It says the account details 
were incorrect and that is why the payments were returned within a day and so hasnt made 
a mistake. Santander  says it can transfer  a debt if it wishes in line with the account terms 
and conditions and also wrote to Mr K telling him that a no payments had been made 
towards the debt about six months  before it sent him an annual statement.
Mr K brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator thought Santander had dealt fairly with 
the complaint.  The adjudicator thought Mr K had made the mistake in setting up the payment 
to Santander and that it had told him by letter  in May 2018 that no payments had been  
made. The adjudicator  thought Mr K ought  to have been aware that the payments were  
being returned and that Santander was entitled  in line with the account terms and conditions 
to pass a debt to a third party  company.  The adjudicator didnt think  Mr K had suffered a 
financial loss as a result of what took place.
Mr K didnt accept that view and disputed that he made the error  about the account details 
and says it may have  been his banks error. He doesnt accept receiving  the letter in May 
2018 from Santander and says the account  should  have been  monitored. Mr K doesnt 
accept that it was a coincidence that his account  was transferred to a third party company 
when payments were  not received and says it wasnt clear where the returned payment was 
from.
The adjudicator looked again  at the complaint but came to the same overall view and didnt 
think Santander was perusing Mr K for this debt and that he could have raised the issue  of 
the credit  of £20 with his bank.
Mr K has asked  that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.  In summary he accepts 
the account error may have  been  his or his banks but doesnt accept the adjudicators view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for largely  the same reasons. I realise  Mr K will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels  about  whats  happened.
Ref: DRN41690662There is no question here that Santander  didnt make a mistake  with the setting up of the 
payment to it of £20. I can see that Mr K accepts that the mistake was either his or his 
banks. So I dont think Santander made  a mistake in those circumstances by sending the 
£20 payment back to where it came from. I accept  it would  have been  helpful if Santanders 
name was included in the reference. But I also think that Mr K ought to have  been  aware  of 
the payment into his account. And ought to have  noticed that it was being received a day 
after a payment to Santander was being made in the same amount ,with  a  reference about 
a Loan Account.  So I would  have  expected  Mr K to have questioned why he was receiving 
a payment for £20 from an unknown source and to have raised it with his bank.
I have looked  at Santanders  records and I am satisfied that it sent information to Mr K in 
May 2018 that showed that payments  hadnt  been made  in some time. I appreciate that Mr K 
says he didnt receive that letter  but I cant fairly hold Santander responsible  for that as it is 
not responsible  for the safe delivery  of mail.
I have also looked  at Santanders account terms and conditions which I am satisfied Mr K 
would have agreed to when the account  was opened. Having done  so I can see that 
Santander is entitled to transfer a debt, as in this case, to a third party company to 
administer. So I dont  think Santander  has made  a mistake  or acted unfairly  in these 
circumstances by transferring Mr Ks account  to the third party  company. I appreciate Mr K 
says that it cant be a coincidence.  But I dont  think it matters  when  or why Santander 
transferred the account, as Im satisfied its entitled  to do so. 
There is no real dispute  here that Santander should have registered a complaint when Mr K 
first called it. But Im satisfied Santander  has fairly  apologised  for that part of the complaint 
and paid a fair and reasonable amount  of £50 compensation. I think that award  reflects  the 
level of Santanders  mistake and the fairly  limited  impact that had on Mr K. I appreciate that 
isnt Mr Ks main complaint in any event.
Overall Im satisfied Santander has dealt  fairly  with this complaint. I appreciate Mr K says 
Santander should have monitored his account and that it potentially  ignored someone in 
financial difficulty. But I dont think that is the case here as I can see that this is a debt that 
goes back a significant period of time that does not attract charges or interest. And Im 
satisfied that Mr K didnt  suffer a loss as the money  he paid was returned to him the next 
day.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4169066