K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) hasnt offered a fair 
settlement for a claim they made under their home insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs L hold a home insurance  policy with UKI that provided cover for their buildings 
and contents.  In January 2018 Mr L registered a claim  with UKI as Mrs L had lost a gold 
necklace with an opal pendant. UKI accepted the claim  and told Mr L the item had been 
valued at £1,675.00. It said Mr L would  need  to pay the £250.00 excess  and a gem card 
would be provided  to him.
Mr L complained, explaining the necklace  was a bespoke  piece  of jewellery that was 
purchased in Australia in 2002. Mr L referred to an article in the media  which said our 
service recommended cash settlements for bespoke or antique  items. So he asked for the 
full value, less the excess,  to be settled in cash.
UKI said it was entitled to provide a gem card, which could  be used at a wide range of 
stores. UKI said if Mr L wanted a cash settlement, it was only obliged  to offer the amount it 
would cost it to replace  the item, which was £1,006.25. Alternatively it said Mr and Mrs L 
could use its personal jewellery service  (PJS) which they could use to recreate the item.
Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy  and referred their complaint  to our service. They 
maintained UKIs stance  wasnt consistent  with our approach and said they couldnt replace 
the item in the stores that would accept the voucher. But our investigator thought UKIs offer 
was fair and was in line with the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept the investigators  opinion,  and asked  for a final decision. They  
still felt a cash settlement  should be provided  and said the terms didnt specify  that UKI could 
provide a voucher in lieu of cash.
Upon my review of the case  I asked UKI for some  further evidence that Mr and Mrs L would 
be able to find a suitable replacement using  the gem card. I also asked it to confirm the PJS 
would be able to source an Australian opal and recreate the necklace. UKI said it had no 
reason to believe Mr and Mrs L wouldnt be able to replace the item using the gem card.  It 
also said the majority of opals are Australian so it was confident  a reasonable match  could 
be made using the PJS.
I told Mr and Mrs L that I wasnt inclined  to uphold their complaint. This is because the policy  
terms gave UKI discretion  as to how it settled claims  and I hadnt seen any evidence to 
suggest they couldnt replace the necklace  either using the gem card or the PJS.  However,  
I said if they found they couldnt get a suitable replacement using the gem card or the PJS,  
I would expect UKI to reconsider  the matter. I said I also thought the cash  settlement offered 
was in line the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs L replied, saying that my view was inconsistent with our approach  published in 
the media. They maintained providing a voucher  is unreasonable as they had expiry dates 
and that it was unfair to ask for the excess up front, when normal practice is to deduct  the 
excess from the settlement.
Ref: DRN47073562As Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with my provisional findings, Im now providing my final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it as 
I think what UKI has offered to settle the claim is fair in the circumstances.
The Personal Possession terms of Mr and Mrs Ls policy  say as follows:
How we settle claims
For any personal possession, set or part of a set that is lost or damaged  we will choose  
whether to:
replace or repair the item or part
pay the cost of replacing or repairing the item or part, up to the amount it would have 
cost us to replace  or repair using our own suppliers, or
make  a cash payment.
We wont pay more than the amount it would have cost us to replace or repair using our own 
suppliers.
If appropriate parts or replacement items are not available,  we will pay the full cost of the 
item, provided the sum insured is adequate.
Your excess
You will have to pay any excesses shown on your schedule.
There is no excess for claims  for money.
We will only take off one excess for each claim, unless there is an endorsement shown in 
your policy schedule to say otherwise.
If we have asked  a supplier to deal with all or part of your claim, we may ask them  to collect 
the excess from you.
I think the terms clearly say that UKI can choose  how it settles claims. I appreciate they dont 
explicitly say that it will provide a voucher, or in this case, a gem card to settle a claim. But 
I think settling the claim with a gem card for the value of the item is consistent with UKI 
paying the cost of replacing the item.  This is provided that an appropriate  replacement  can 
be purchased with it.
Mr and Mrs L say that they cant go into a store  and buy a like for like replacement. I accept 
that Mr and Mrs L are unlikely to be able to purchase an item that is an exact match of the 
one they lost. But I still think UKI is indemnifying  them  for their loss if theyre able to 
purchase an item that is a reasonable match of the necklace they lost using the gem card. 
I havent seen  any evidence from Mr and Mrs L to show they arent able to source a 
reasonable match of the item. Nor am I persuaded that the item should be considered  to be 
Ref: DRN47073563bespoke or antique, meaning a different approach should be taken. So, I dont think what  
UKI has offered  in settlement  of the claim is unreasonable.
As I think  it was fair for UKI to offer a gem card for the value of £1,675.00, I also think  the 
cash settlement of £1,006.25 offered to Mr and Mrs L is fair. This is because  the policy  terms 
say that UKI wont pay more than it would cost it to settle the claim. UKI has shown  it would 
cost it £1,256.25 to provide a gem card for the value of £1,675.00. So, after deducting the 
excess of £250,  the cash  settlement is £1,006.25.
UKI has also said Mrs L could use the PJS to build a replacement of her necklace. It 
provided a link to the relevant webpage  for the provider,  which  says:
[The providers] wholly owned  factory produces beautifully finished  jewellery  to stringent 
quality standards  and to your individual personal  requirements. In many  instances we can 
even hand make a piece  based on a photograph  if available.
UKI has confirmed that if Mr and Mrs L were  to use this service,  the opal would be from 
Australia. I think this is a fair offer as it seeks to provide Mrs L with a like for like 
replacement.
Nevertheless, if Mr and Mrs L were able to demonstrate that they couldnt  replace the item 
using the gem card or the PJS, I would expect UKI to reconsider the matter.
Mr and Mrs L also say that it isnt fair to ask for payment of the excess  up front and that this 
is unlike  other insurance policies  where  the excess is deducted  from the settlement. But as 
per the terms set out above, UKI is entitled to ask Mr and Mrs L to pay the excess up front.  
While some insurers will deduct the excess from the settlement, it isnt unusual  for insurers 
to require customers to pay the excess. I dont think this practice is unfair,  particularly as it is 
set out clearly within Mr and Mrs Ls policy document.
Mr and Mrs L should contact UKI directly  if they wish to accept any of the options offered to 
settle their claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs L to accept  
or reject my decision before 25 March 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4707356