K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited unfairly refused 
to pay his claim under his pet policy because it said the claim was excluded.
background
Mr M had a pet policy with Red Sands for many years. In 2018,  he made a claim for vet fees 
for the removal of a tumour  on his dogs gum and lip.
Red Sands  said his policy specifically excluded any claims for dental or gum treatment so it 
wouldnt pay his claim. Mr M disagreed he said his claim wasnt  about standard dental or 
gum treatment but the removal of a tumour.  Red Sands wouldnt change  its stance.
So Mr M brought his complaint to us. The investigator ultimately didnt think Red Sands had 
done anything  wrong. Mr M disagreed so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 February 2020  and I said the following:
Mr M made his claim in 2018. He sent us the wording of his policy  also dated 2018.  
It says the following is excluded:
Any dental  or gum treatment, including root canal treatment and any 
investigations costs  leading up to a dental diagnosis.
So first, the treatment has to be dental  or gum treatment and secondly and more 
crucially, it must lead up to a dental diagnosis. I dont consider Mr Ms claim led to 
any dental diagnosis,  it led to a tumour diagnosis of peripheral odontogenic fibroma.  
Mr Ms vet said the following:
In my professional opinion the peripheral odontogenic fibroma that was 
removed is unrelated to dental disease  in its origin  and therefore  should not 
be excluded based  upon the wording of the policy.
I consider this to be very persuasive.  I also note Red Sands hasnt provided any 
other vet evidence to challenge this view.
Red Sands  appears  to have relied on earlier versions of the policy  Mr M had, and 
said the exclusion was as follows:
Any dental  or gum treatment including root canal treatment.
I dont consider the removal of this tumour to be dental or gum treatment either. 
First, we have the issue  of two differently worded exclusions and Im more persuaded 
since the policy Mr M gave to us is dated 2018  and his claim was made at the end of 
2018 that this is the right version of the exclusion  wording.
Secondly, Red Sands said as this tumour was found  in the dogs  gum, its 
consequently excluded. But I dont consider the removal  of a tumour to be gum  
Ref: DRN46993622treatment in the meaning of either  exclusion.  I think and I think most  people would 
read either and both exclusions as meaning all ordinary dental and associated gum 
treatment isnt covered.  So I think this exclusion  merely relates to everyday events 
such as tooth decay  and gum disease. More especially, as both of these are 
somewhat unavoidable as the pet ages or where indeed the pet owner didnt ensure 
their pets  teeth were cleaned regularly. I dont  think  either  exclusion  is expressed 
well enough to further exclude  another issue, which isnt just an ordinary dental 
issue. Mr Ms claim isnt about an ordinary dental issue,  its about removing a fairly 
rare tumour instead.
Consequently, as there is confusion over which version of the policy wording applies, 
and more importantly,  theres a coherent doubt over the meaning in either  version, I 
consider it should  be interpreted  in the way most favourable to Mr M, as the 
policyholder. This is because Mr M wasnt involved in the writing  of either version  of 
this exclusion or indeed the policies.  So I consider  Mr Ms claim isnt excluded under  
either exclusion in discussion.
I also dont think the purpose of Red Sands  exclusion was to avoid claims  for 
tumours, whether  benign  or not, as such issues, being potentially serious and 
expensive, are precisely why people buy pet insurance in the first place. 
Therefore, I consider  Red Sand  has applied an unfair and unreasonable  narrow 
interpretation of its exclusion, which has been  designed  to apply to a different  risk, 
namely ordinary everyday  dentistry  events. Here  Red Sands has applied it to a 
completely different disease process, which is far more serious. In addition,  a 
policyholder would expect this policy to cover that. Furthermore, I dont consider this 
tumour lead to any dental diagnosis either.
Therefore, I consider  Red Sands  has been  unfair and unreasonable  in refusing Mr 
Ms claim and it should now pay it. Interest should be added if Mr M has already paid 
his vets fees in relation to this.
Mr M accepted my provisional decision.  He raised  the issue that his dealings had only been 
with the branded policy entity and not Red Sands. However, the investigator explained that 
as Red Sands ultimately made the decision on his claim, its correct  therefore, his complaint 
is set up against  Red Sands.  He was also concerned about the two different policy wordings  
but was assured, that because they were different I was intending to hold that difference in 
his favour.
Red Sands  indicated it was thinking  of preparing a response but and then sent us its 
response after the time limit given. It maintained its policy wording  was the correct  one and 
that this tumour is on the dogs  gum and therefore the treatment to remove  it was gum 
treatment and so ought to be excluded.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Red Sands further  comments, which are in my view is just a repeat of what it 
originally said. More  importantly, whilst  Red Sands maintains  its preferred  policy  wording is 
Ref: DRN46993623the correct one, it has failed to deal with the fact that the policy  terms Mr M produced  were 
dated 2018. And so it has failed to explain why policy  terms clearly  dated 2018 dont apply to 
a claim made in late 2018, but policy wordings dated  2017/18  do apparently.  
I consider that what this merely does,  is to confirm the confusion  over the policy  wording, 
which therefore must be by law be construed in favour of Mr M. 
In any event, given  this I remain of the view as dealt with in my provisional decision, that 
both policy  wordings are concerned with excluding every day teeth and gum problems. I also 
remain of the view that what Mr Ms dog suffered from was not an ordinary tooth or gum 
problem. So I remain of the view that neither policy wordings are expressed well enough to 
provide an adequate exclusion for Mr Ms claim.
Therefore in the particular circumstances of Mr Ms complaint, I remain of the view his 
complaint should  be upheld.       
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr Ms claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of his 
policy.
If Mr M had already paid his vet fees, add interest of 8% simple per year from the 
date Mr M paid the vet fees to the date of its payment  of the claim. 
If income tax is deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should  be 
provided to Mr M for HMRC purposes.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4699362