K820x#14summary and background to the complaint
Mr T, who is represented  by a third party, has complained  to us that The Mortgage  Advice  
Service (MAS) mis-sold  him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy in November 
2008 when he was making arrangements to take out a mortgage. 
Mr T says he was told he had to buy the PPI in order  to get the mortgage  he wanted. He 
also says it wasnt explained to him and that he didnt need it as he had good work benefits.  
He also says he trusted what MASs representative told him as he hadnt taken out a 
mortgage before.  
We made several attempts to contact MAS but its representative didnt respond.  So our 
adjudicator provided  her opinion about the sale, saying she thought  the PPI had been 
mis-sold because Mr T wasnt given a choice  about taking it out.  
In February 2017  an ombudsman  issued  a provisional decision saying he was satisfied  that 
MAS was responsible  for the sale, given that it was authorised to sell PPI by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  at the time. The ombudsman noted that MAS  hadnt responded to the 
communications wed sent.  The ombudsman also said that MAS  had mis-sold  Mr T his PPI.  
MASs representative was unhappy with the ombudsmans  provisional decision, saying it 
wasnt responsible  for the sale. The representative said another business, which I will refer 
to as Business  A, was responsible and that it was the representative from there who should  
be held responsible for the sale. The representative for MAS told us he had worked with this 
adviser previously but had not done so since 2008.  He also said that MAS  was no longer 
trading and that he had not responded to previous  correspondence from us because the 
complaint didnt relate to his business  and he did not know  who Mr T was. 
I issued my provisional decision on 23 October  2019. In that provisional decision I first made 
a finding that MAS was responsible for the sale of the policy to Mr T. I went on to make a 
merits finding, saying  that the policy had not been mis-sold. 
I said that I considered  MAS to be responsible for the sale based on the evidence  and 
information Id seen. I said this because it was my conclusion that MAS was the principal 
business for the purposes of the sale and that another business  Business A  had carried 
out the sale under the supervision of MAS. 
Having then looked at merits of the mis-sale case,  I made the finding that Mr T bought the 
policy in the knowledge that he had a choice about whether or not he wanted to take it out. 
I also said that whilst its possible there were shortcomings in the way the PPI had been sold 
to Mr T, I didnt  think this would have affected  Mr Ts decision to buy the PPI. 
developments
MASs representative has requested that we delete  his details from our database given that 
he has retired and no longer wishes to be contacted by us at his home  address. He has also 
questioned the basis on which this Service was entitled to continue  contacting  him. And he 
says it might be inappropriate for us to do so under data protection  law. 
Those representing Mr T also responded to my provisional decision, commenting on the 
merits of the complaint. They  said that Mr T took out the PPI because he was told by MASs 
Ref: DRN48197452representative that hed have to increase  his existing PPI cover  to match his new PPI 
payments. Also,  that Mr T cancelled  the policy when he later re-mortgaged.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Turning first to the comments  made by MAS, and having noted Mr Ts concerns, I think its 
important for me to clarify the role of this Service. 
I said in my decision that at the time of the sale MAS had acted as principal, operating  under 
its own authorisation from the Financial Services Authority, now Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). I also said that Id seen on the FCAs database of businesses that MASs 
authorisation to sell PPI remained in place  until it ended August 2010. 
I obtained this information by checking our financial business database  which reflects  the 
information the FCA holds, cross-checking it with the FCAs Financial Services Register. 
This register holds details about MAS, showing when it was covered by the jurisdiction of our 
Service. It also contains business contact details and contact details for making a complaint. 
The contact  details for both are the same. We have used these details to contact MAS about 
Mr Ts complaint. 
I think its also important for me to clarify  that MAS was operating as what is known  as an 
unincorporated business, also known as a sole trader. When a sole trader stops trading or 
ceases to be authorised,  they will remain responsible for dealing  with PPI mis-sale  
complaints, even though they may no longer be in business.
 
This information can also be found  by going to the FCAs website which  has a link to its 
Financial Services Register. The page that provides details  about MAS states that This is a 
firm that can no longer provide regulated products and services, but was previously  
authorised by the PRA [Prudential Regulation  Authority] and/or FCA. The Register  also 
gives the name of MASs representative.  
So whilst I fully appreciate  that the representative for MAS has now retired and that his 
business is no longer authorised, its details remain listed  on the FCA Financial Services 
Register. It follows  that we are unable to delete  or otherwise remove or amend the details 
held by the FCA. These details continue to remain available  through the FCA website. 
Ive also considered the comments provided by those representing Mr T about  the sale of 
the policy. In preparing my decision Ive looked  at whether the available  evidence  and 
information shows or suggests its likely  that the PPI was mis-sold to Mr T. 
Mr Ts representatives  have repeated Mr Ts complaint that he was told he had to buy PPI to 
get the mortgage he wanted. But they havent given me any new evidence  or information. 
Ive already considered Mr Ts comments about  being told he had to buy PPI to get the 
mortgage and didnt need it as he had good  work benefits. And Ive also considered the fact 
that Mr T had bought  PPI with his previous mortgage in 2002, which  was still in place at the 
of this sale, in 2008.  
Taking into account everything  Ive heard from MAS  and those representing Mr T, it follows  
that I will not be changing my decision.  
Ref: DRN48197453my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that The Mortgage Advice Service is 
responsible for this sale of PPI to Mr T but that the PPI was not mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4819745