K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about advice they received from Countrywide Assured Plc in 
March 1993 to take out a reviewable whole life policy. The nature  and terms of the policy  
were misrepresented  to them with regard to the operation and impact of policy reviews, the 
rate used for annual indexation and provision of Disability  Income Benefit (DIB).
Specifically, theyve said that:
they were led to believe that the policy incorporated an investment element that could 
provide a future nest egg and a decent surrender value;
DIB should not have been  removed  when Mrs G turned 60; indeed, it should have 
been extended in line with the equalisation of state pension  ages  for men and women 
at no additional  cost;
the rate of annual indexation of benefits  and the premium has been excessive and 
hasnt reflected the increase in the Retails Price Index in the last 20 years;     
they werent advised that, if they cancelled indexation, it could have serious 
consequences for their cover  and future premiums;
the outcome  of more recent policy  reviews  has increased the monthly  premium  
disproportionately to the increase in benefits and the policy  has become 
unaffordable. The adviser  never  warned them that the cost of benefits under the 
policy increased more  and more with age.   
Overall, Mr and Mrs G dont think the policy operated as they were led to believe at the point 
of sale.
background
This complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt uphold  it.
He saw that, under the terms  of the policy it was due to have  been  reviewed every five years  
from 2008 but Mr and Mrs G opted  to index-link the benefits and the premium.  So, the policy  
was reviewed when  each years indexed increases were applied  and the premium  was set at 
a level sufficient to maintain  the revised  level of life cover until the next review.
The adjudicator explained that, by 2007,  the premium had increased  to around £47.50 and 
the sum assured to £56,500. Mr and Mrs G declined the indexation increases in 2008 and 
2009, so the normal five-yearly review cycle  resumed. 
In 2013 they agreed increase the monthly premium to approximately  £85.00 to keep the sum 
assured at £56,500. 
At the most  recent review  in 2018, theyve  now been  asked to increase their premiums to 
£155.00 per month.  
Either way, the adjudicator didnt feel that removing the index linking had a detrimental effect 
on the policy other than just changing  the frequency of the reviews. And there was no 
provision for reviews to stop at any given age or for the adviser to have known in 1993  
whether the policy  might  become unaffordable  25 years later.  
He also saw no evidence  that Countrywide unilaterally removed the Disability Income  Benefit 
at age 60 against Mr and Mrs Gs wishes. In 2012,  before  she reached age 60, Mrs G was 
Ref: DRN46635212given the option to extend this benefit to age 66 (then her new state retirement age) but 
chose not to do so due to the additional  cost. 
In response, Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and said:
when they agreed  to take out the policy, they were told they could index-link it to 
ensure the benefits  retained  their value in real terms and this was the only reason for 
the premium to increase;
they were never told then that the policy would increase due to their age;
If they reduced the cover to the amount suggested, it was pointless  to have index-
linked the policy  in previous years and pay an increased premium in the meantime;
they were never offered a non-reviewable policy and, if they had been warned  that 
the policy could  become  so expensive as they got older, most likely, they would have  
made a different decision;
in most years, the premium increases  were  greater  than the actual rate of inflation 
and the increase in benefits.  Reviewing a policy doesnt always mean there  should  
be an increase. At no time during the many  years  of low inflation was the cost of the 
premium reduced.  Over the last 20 years, the rate of increase in the RPI has largely  
been less than five per cent. But the policy  terms increased the benefits and premium 
by much more than RPI and account  should  have  been  taken of this with an 
adjustment made in future years for previous  indexation increases being too great;
they were advised that, if they index-linked they policy, the premium  would rise in line 
with the level of cover. But the cost of the policy has increased disproportionately to 
the increase in life cover;
they were never informed that as they got older the cost of the premium would 
become so expensive  that they may not be able to afford to continue the policy;  
they were told they could stop index-linking at any time,  which  would then freeze 
their premium  and cover. This hasnt  happened  and they continue  to believe that the 
policy was not fit for purpose,  that its content and benefits were  misrepresented, that 
the policy was miss-sold and that, when they first enquired  about  stopping index-
linking, they were not made aware that this could damage the policy;
it took Countrywide 17 years to offer Mrs G to option of bringing  the expiry  date of 
DIB into line with changes in state retirement age for women. If shed  taken up the 
option to extend the term of this benefit  to age 66, the monthly premium should  not 
have increased  because,  when  she didnt take up the option, the monthly premium 
didnt reduce when DIB expired at age 60.
They fully accept that the policy was reviewable  but feel that the rise in their premium is 
excessive and unacceptable.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been referred to me for review.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, Ive noted  what Mr and Mrs G say they were told by the adviser  in 1993 as to 
how the policy worked. But I have to bear in mind  that their dealings with him took place 25 
years ago and theres little evidence to verify how he presented the policy  to them verbally.
Ref: DRN46635213It seems  to me that Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  that the policy was misrepresented to them 
derives from flaws they feel exist in the contractual nature  of the policy and in the advisers 
explanation of the operation of the policy at the point of sale. 
But I cant retrospectively alter the contractual nature of this policy  after 25 years. If 
Mr and Mrs G feel there  are shortcomings or ambiguities in its terms and conditions, or 
Countrywide failed  to apply its terms and conditions  correctly, they should refer their 
concerns to the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. Specifically, I dont 
propose to analyse  the rate of increase in RPI year-on-year to decide whether or not it was 
reasonable for the policy still to index  benefits and premium by at least  five per cent over the 
last 20 years.      
    
This leaves  me to consider whether,  in recommending  this policy to Mr and Mrs G in 1993, 
the adviser gave  them  suitable advice and provided a clear and correct explanation as to 
how the policy operated. 
As this policy was recommended before the introduction  of Disclosure  requirements  in 
January 1995,  the adviser didnt  provide  Mr and Mrs G a suitability letter whose purpose 
would have been to explain the reasons  for advising this policy  to them  and to provide a 
detailed explanation of it. His recommendations are summarised in the Client Factfind  he 
completed with them  in March 1993 they signed to confirm it accurately recorded their 
personal and financial  circumstances and that they understood  the advice being given.
 
But the Factfind didnt explain in great detail the nature and terms of the policy  - the adviser  
would have relied on the product provider  issuing direct to Mr and Mrs G the Product 
Particulars Notice, together  with a copy of the policy provisions, which  set out how the policy  
operated and their statutory right to change their minds within 30 days.  It does seem that, in 
presenting their case, Mr and Mrs G were  acquainted with the terms and conditions  of the 
policy.
My understanding is that, in March 1993, Mr and Mrs G were in their mid-30s,  with two 
dependent children. Mrs Gs mother  also lived with them. They  had recently moved and had 
taken out a new mortgage for £30,000,  repayable  on a capital and interest basis over 25 
years. At that time, Mr G wasnt in work  and had no pension provision. Mrs G was in full-time  
employment, earning a basic  salary  of around  £3,500 per annum. Their  combined income 
gave them a modest monthly disposable income.  Mrs G was a member of her employers 
(money purchase) pension scheme since 1989,  which offered a death-in service lump  sum 
equal to her annual salary.  Otherwise,  they had no existing life assurance provision.
Ordinarily, if Mr and Mrs G just wanted  to cover the outstanding balance of their mortgage on 
death at any time, they might have been  recommended to take out a decreasing term 
assurance (DTA)  policy.  But it seems  they also wanted some life cover  for family protection  
given they had two dependent children.
So Mr and Mrs G were advised  to take out a reviewable joint life, first death  whole life 
policy, initially providing life cover of £30,000 on specified basis  sufficient to protect  their 
mortgage. As they repaid  the capital loan, the policy would naturally give them  increasingly 
additional protection. But Mr and Mrs G also agreed  to apply annual indexation to both the 
benefits and the monthly  premium based on the percentage increase  in the Retail  Price  
Index (RPI), with a minimum increase of five per cent and a maximum of 15 per cent,  to 
maintain the future value of their cover in real terms.
Ref: DRN46635214At additional  cost,  they were recommended to include in the policy  Disability Income  Benefit 
(DIB) of £40.00 per week for Mrs G to help replace  lost income if she was ever off work  due 
to long term illness or incapacity, payable after 26 weeks of absence.
The monthly premium for all benefits was just under £25.00 but the policy schedule didnt 
separately give the cost of DIB within this premium.  
In my view, this advice  seems to be appropriate for Mr and Mrs Gs personal and financial 
circumstances at that time and I dont think they have an issue  with it in principle. It seems to 
me that their concern  relates more to the operation of the policy as it affected future benefit 
levels and the cost of those  benefits.
The policy is a reviewable  whole life plan that provided life cover  of £30.000 on a specified 
basis. The policy  could otherwise have been  set up on a maximum sum assured basis,  
which provided cover of £30,000 at the lowest possible premium, guaranteed  for 10 years, or 
on a standard  basis which  could guarantee  cover to age 85 whereupon the policy would  
lapse with no value.  A policy set up on a specified  basis would initially  set the premium  at a 
level that was closer to maximum  than to standard. This seemed to be a reasonable 
compromise given Mr and Mrs Gs limited budget, although  the likelihood was that the 
premium would need to increase on review. 
 
Policy reviews
The policy provisions confirm that the policy is reviewed every  five years until age 75, when 
the reviewed becomes  annual, to see if the monthly  premium and the current  value of the 
policy could support the sum assured based on the providers assumptions about when Mr 
or Mrs G died first.
Put simply, at review, assuming Mr and Mrs G hadnt opted for annual  indexation, if theres  a 
shortfall in the policys fund value compared  to the present value  of £30,000 discounted  back 
from the date Mr or Mrs G was predicted  to die first, the monthly premium needed to 
increase to ensure the policys future fund value would meet this death claim.  Most of the 
monthly premium to a policy written  on a specified sum assured basis  would  be devoted to 
the provision of life cover,  with little of it invested.  So, its likely that the monthly premium 
would need to increase at review to support  the original level of life cover,  based not just on 
their advancing  age but also on mortality  experience, future  investment  returns and costs of 
administering the policy.
But, as Mr and Mrs G indexed their benefits and the premium annually, the policy was 
reviewed each time to test whether  a five per cent increase in premium was sufficient to 
fund a five per cent increase in life cover. 
It seems  Mr and Mrs G accepted the indexation  increases every year until 2008, when the 
premium rose to approximately £58.00 per month for life cover of £59,000. Each year,  the 
policy passed this review. Mr and Mrs G declined indexation in 2009 but agreed to index  
the policy for the final time in 2010,  when the premium increased  to £72.00 per month for life 
cover of £62,500.
When the policy was reviewed in 2013,  its fund value was insufficient to support the existing 
sum assured of £62,500  and the monthly  premium needed to increase to almost £85.00. 
     
Ref: DRN46635215I do appreciate why Mr and Mrs G consider the monthly premium of £155.00 they were  
asked to pay in 2018 to maintain the existing level of life cover excessive. But that doesnt  
mean the policy was misrepresented to them in 1993.  
As the interaction  of several factors  determine the outcome of a policy  review, it would have 
been practically impossible for the adviser  to have  been precise at all about the premium  
increases Mr and Mrs G could expect to see that would continue  to maintain the existing 
level of life cover in (say) 20 or 25 years time. 
And Ive seen no evidence which causes me to believe that the policy,  the reviews and 
indexation increases have  been incorrectly administered by Countrywide.  
Annual indexation
I also acknowledge that Mr and Mrs G state the adviser  made specific  claims for the policy  
that it could act as a long term investment policy and provide a worthwhile  surrender  value  if 
benefits and premiums continued  to be indexed. But, while I dont doubt  what Mr and Mrs G 
have said, Ive seen  no evidence that the adviser made  any such claims for the policy.  
Its evident that the policy was sold to Mr and Mrs G to provide mortgage and family 
protection and the adviser recommended indexation to maintain the value of their life cover  
in real terms given the policy was likely  to remain in force over the longer term. 
But, as life cover was set up on a specified basis to suit their monthly  budget, which  set a 
monthly premium that was relatively low for the amount of cover  provided, there was very 
little investment element in the policy. 
Accordingly, the original illustration Mr and Mrs G were provided at outset, for example, gave 
cash values after 10 years of £786  and £856  assuming investment returns  of seven  per cent 
and 10.5 per cent per annum  respectively.  That the benefits and the premiums  were indexed  
wouldnt necessarily have  increased the investment content of the policy. On the contrary, 
the policy was reviewed each time indexation  applied to check  that the increased premium  
was sufficient to support  the new level of cover. As such, it wasnt  certain that the premium 
would increase just at the same rate (minimum five percent) as the benefits.  
So, on balance, its difficult for me to conclude Mr and Mrs G would have been told that the 
application of annual indexation  turned the policy from a protection plan to an investment 
which would give a worthwhile return and a surrender value.
Disability Income Benefit
The policy also included Disability Income  Benefit for Mrs G, which was written to expire  
when she reached  her state  pension age of 60 at that time. There is an additional premium 
payable for this benefit which I accept wasnt shown separately on the original policy 
schedule. But I dont  think thats sufficient to conclude that Mrs G should not have taken out 
this benefit, or that the option offered by Countrywide in 2012 to extend the benefit to age 66 
should come  at no cost whatsoever.    
I agree  that the proposal to phase  in the equalisation of state pension ages for men and 
women was introduced by the Pensions Act 1995.  But the provision of this Act primarily 
affected women born before  April 1953; the changes to state  retirement age for Mrs G were 
defined by the Pensions Act 2011. 
Ref: DRN46635216So, while Mrs G has commented that it took Countrywide 17 years since  the 1995  Act to 
offer her the option to link the expiry date of her DIB to future  changes  in State Pension Age, 
she wouldnt  have known  what expiry  age to set under the DIB until 2012  when  she hadnt 
yet reached age 60 anyway. So, I dont think this issue has a material  bearing on the 
outcome of her complaint.
The additional cost of DIB also varies  according  to age, except  that it reduces over time 
because the risk of paying this benefit decreases  as policyholders  approach state retirement  
age. Accordingly,  when Mrs G did reach  age 60 without previously extending the benefit 
term, there was no deduction  to the total premium when this benefit expired. If, in 2012,  she 
had opted to extend the expiry date to age 66, there  would have been a legitimate additional 
cost of insuring the risk of her becoming ill or suffering  long term incapacity for a further six 
years and at an older age.
I do sympathise with Mr and Mrs G if a policy theyve held for 25 years, and still wish to 
keep, has now become unaffordable.  
But the policy was set up on terms to suit their budget, with future  indexed  increases in 
benefits and premium. The reviewable  nature of the policy was explained to them  in the 
policy provisions and the adviser  could not have envisaged in 1993  how the monthly 
premium might need to change at successive reviews in five, 10, 15, 20 or 25 years time, 
given there  are several factors that determine the future cost of providing  life cover.
Ive no reason either to believe that there have been  shortcomings in Countrywides  
administration of the policy that have  disadvantaged  Mr and Mrs G financially.     
decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4663521