K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the advice they received from Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited. They are represented in their complaint by a family member. For ease 
I will refer to all submissions as if they had come directly from Mr and Mrs W.
background
A brief summary of the circumstances  leading to this complaint, and my initial  conclusions,  
were set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
final decision.
In short,  Mr and Mrs W have concerns about the advice  Hargreaves Lansdown  provided  to 
them in 2015  and 2016. It originally advised  Mr and Mrs W to transfer  their pensions from 
different providers to its platform and to use its discretionary  investment management  
service (the Portfolio Management  Service) to manage their funds. Mr and 
Mrs W were concerned with the cost of this approach  partly  because it would have 
required annual reviews   so Hargreaves Lansdown  adjusted  its advice and recommended  
they invest in one of its manager-of-manager funds  instead. Mr and Mrs W agreed to this 
but changed their mind  during a 30-day cooling  off period because  of continued doubts 
about Hargreaves Lansdowns advice. However,  their pensions had already been  
transferred by this point  which  was contrary to their understanding of how the cooling off 
period would work. Their pensions were invested  in the recommended  fund, except for one 
which remained in cash whilst Mr and Mrs W considered their options.  This caused Mr and 
Mrs W to lose out on potential  investment returns  another area of concern.  
Mr and Mrs W also have  concerns  about  how Hargreaves Lansdown presented  some  
information, the assumptions it used and some of the areas its advice didnt cover  
specifically long term care and what would happen to the income of the surviving spouse in 
the event of either Mr W or Mrs W dying.
Hargreaves Lansdown offered Mr and Mrs W a free review to allow them  to get advice on 
areas such as long term care. It also said it would backdate the transfer of the pension  that 
remained in cash to ensure Mr and Mrs W didnt lose out on investment returns. And it said it 
would honour  its transfer and refer-a-friend  incentives, which were £250 and £25 
respectively. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  think Hargreaves Lansdowns various offers  went  far enough, so they 
brought their complaint  to us. 
In my provisional decision,  I concluded  that Hargreaves Lansdowns proposed investment 
strategy hadnt been unsuitable. I thought Hargreaves Lansdowns  offers to provide a free 
review and to add on missed investment returns whilst one of their transferred pensions  
was uninvested  were fair and reasonable given they would have rectified two specific  
concerns Mr and Mrs W had identified. And whilst I thought Hargreaves Lansdown  could 
have been a bit clearer in the way it explained  some things, I didnt think this negated  the 
overall suitability  of the advice it gave. 
With regards to Hargreaves  Lansdowns offer to pay the £250  transfer  incentive  and £25 
refer-a-friend incentive, I pointed  out that Mr and Mrs W didnt qualify for the former but did 
qualify for the latter. So I discounted  the £25 as something that should always  have been  
Ref: DRN48012232paid and considered whether the £250  was a fair and reasonable gesture of goodwill. I 
thought it was. 
I therefore provisionally concluded  that there was nothing  further for Hargreaves Lansdown 
to do. 
Mr and Mrs W made a number of further comments,  which  I thank them for. Hargreaves 
Lansdown had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the avoidance  of doubt, this means 
Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs W have said in response to my provisional decision 
and previously.
Asset allocation
Mr and Mrs W were originally advised to transfer  their existing pension pots to Hargreaves 
Lansdown and to appoint Hargreaves Lansdown  to manage their investments on a 
discretionary basis in line with a 60%/40% equity/bond asset allocation. According to the 
recommendations report, this equity weighting would have been at the top end of Mr and 
Mrs Ws desired  portfolio which was said to have  an equity weighting  of 50-60%. Their  
previous portfolio was recorded as having  66% allocated  to equities. 
Mr and Mrs W say that Hargreaves Lansdowns  proposed asset allocation was unsuitable 
because it decreased their exposure  to equities which would potentially reduce their 
retirement income given  the likely performance  of equities relative to other asset classes 
over the longer term. They  say this went against the whole point of transferring which was to 
improve the likely returns on their pensions.
Mr W (who had the majority of pension assets) was approximately  eight years  from the point 
where he would be considering taking  his pension. This meant he was still in a position  to 
benefit from the growth that equities  typically bring over the longer term. But he was close  
enough to drawing on his funds that some caution would also have  been  prudent.  I also 
havent seen anything that would  suggest  Mr and Mrs W were  particularly  adventurous 
investors. And the recommendations report also made it clear that Mr and Mrs W were 
taking a more  risk-averse stance. So in the circumstances,  I dont think I can fairly say 
Hargreaves Lansdowns proposed asset allocation was unsuitable or that a slightly  lower 
equity weighting than before was unwarranted.  
Because Mr and Mrs W had concerns with the original recommendation, Hargreaves 
Lansdown subsequently recommended one of its manager-of-manager funds (the Multi-
Manager Equity and Bond  fund) as being  a cheaper way for Mr and Mrs W to achieve their 
desired asset  allocation  and to access active fund management. The funds minimum equity  
weighting was (and remains) 20%. The maximum equity weighting was (and remains)  60%.
Mr and Mrs W point  out that their exposure  to equities could have fallen to, and could still fall 
to, 20%. They also say the investment  manager  has the freedom to make potentially  
extreme  asset allocation  decisions.  
Ref: DRN48012233I recognise a prolonged period of low exposure  to equities is a possibility. And I think it could 
be a cause for concern if the fund consistently operated  with an equity weighting  of, say, 20 
or 30%. I think this would indicate an essentially defensive, cautious, fund. Whilst this would 
be the fund managers  prerogative, I think Mr and Mrs W would, reasonably,  argue that 
investing in such  a fund wouldnt be in their long-term interest and would be out of step with 
what they had been recommended. But I havent been provided with any evidence  that the 
fund has been,  or is, operating in this way. By way of illustration,  its current equity exposure 
is 56% (with  potentially further indirect exposure to equities through  other funds)  and the 
fund manager  talks of being typically  overweight  in equities. So I dont think Mr and Mrs W 
have been disadvantaged  or misled in the way theyve suggested. 
Its also worth noting that the Investment Association has a number of definitions for fund 
sectors to help investors navigate through various investment options. All three  funds in its 
mixed asset category  have a similarly wide dispersion in the amount of equities investment 
managers can hold.  So getting exposure  to an active fund investing in a variety of asset  
classes is always likely to involve giving a fund manager a reasonable amount of potential 
latitude in terms  of asset allocation.
Mr and Mrs W also point  out that Hargreaves Lansdown didnt present the relative merits of 
equities in a fair manner. They say the adviser  focussed too much  on the downsides of 
investing in equities without providing enough context about the likelihood of equities  
outperforming bonds over the longer term. Their point is that Hargreaves Lansdowns 
recommendation was built to a certain  extent  on Mr and Mrs Ws preferences  even though  
those preferences were  themselves partly a result  of how the adviser discussed investment 
markets. In their view, a more even-handed discussion  of equities would have led to them to 
favouring a less risk-averse approach which, by extension,  casts  doubt on their supposed 
desired portfolio  of 50-60% equities  and Hargreaves Lansdowns  recommendation.
However, I dont think its true that the relative merits of equities were  overlooked.  The 
recommendations report says the following for instance:
Over longer periods  of time equity investments tend to outperform other asset  classes  (not
guaranteed) so that you are rewarded for the additional risks that you are taking. You 
therefore feel that you have the capacity to take investment risk with your pension
But even putting  this to one side, the question here is whether a more extensive  (but still 
balanced) discussion  of the merits of equities  would have prompted Mr and Mrs W to have  
become less risk averse and led to them  being  more comfortable with an appreciably higher 
equity weighting for their pensions. Im satisfied I cant  safely draw that conclusion from the 
available evidence.
Cooling off period and the manager-of-manager  recommendation
Hargreaves Lansdown originally advised Mr and Mrs W to use its discretionary investment 
management service. Mr and Mrs W had concerns with the expense of adopting this 
approach so Hargreaves Lansdown adjusted  its advice and recommended  they invest in one 
of its manager-of-manager funds instead. Mr and Mrs W agreed to this but changed their 
mind during  a 30-day cooling off period. Their  pensions had already been transferred by this 
point, however, which was contrary to their understanding of how the cooling off period 
would work.  Their pensions were  invested  in the manager-of-manager fund, except for one 
which remained in cash whilst Mr and Mrs W considered their options.   
Ref: DRN48012234In my provisional decision,  I noted that the 30-day cooling  off period doesnt mean the 
transfer is put on hold until the cooling off period ends.  If the transfer has been  agreed upon 
 as was the case here  it goes ahead  but it can then be cancelled  if the client changes 
their mind. If it is cancelled, the transferred assets  are then returned to the ceding scheme 
(or to another  provider  if the ceding  scheme  wont accept the returned funds). 
So in my provisional decision,  I said Hargreaves Lansdown was operating in line with its 
procedures in continuing with the transfers  during the cooling off period. But I noted  that 
Hargreaves Lansdown thought it should  have done better in explaining the cooling  off 
period. With that being the case,  I went on to consider whether it would have made a 
difference to Mr and Mrs Ws decision to transfer  if Hargreaves Lansdown had done  more to 
explain the cooling off period. I said:
Having reviewed the correspondence between the parties  during  April 2016, I can see 
Hargreaves Lansdown offered to return the transferred funds.  It doesnt  look like Mr and 
Mrs W were willing to do this at the time. And having  read Mr and Mrs Ws subsequent 
comments, I dont think  there  is now an appetite to unwind things either.  It seems  they still 
want exposure to the underlying funds in Hargreaves Lansdowns multi-manager fund.  Its 
just that theyre  unhappy with the added expense of having an investment manager select 
those underlying funds, the cost of their advice and the lack of advice on long term care and 
estate planning.  So, based on everything thats been provided, I dont think it would be 
appropriate to unwind everything and put Mr and Mrs W back in the position  they were  in 
prior to the transfer happening.
In response to my comments  about  them choosing to not return  the transferred funds when 
offered the opportunity to do so, Mr and Mrs W say they werent sure what  fees would apply 
or whether Hargreaves Lansdown intended to refund any fees that did apply. So Mr and 
Mrs W say they chose  to remain with Hargreaves Lansdown rather than take the risk of 
being penalised for reversing the transfer.
Its a fair argument and I accept their decision to not unwind the transfer doesnt mean they 
necessarily approved of the advice that led them  to that transfer. But, in trying to unpick this 
issue, its worth reflecting on what Mr and Mrs W go on to say which is that they were  happy 
to consolidate  pensions on the Hargreaves Lansdown platform and were happy  with the 
funds they could access on that platform  its just that they had concerns about the 
manager-of-manager strategy recommended by Hargreaves Lansdown because of the extra 
layer of costs involved in such an approach. Mr and Mrs W reiterate this point by saying they 
could have invested in the underlying  funds  themselves without the involvement,  and 
expense, of having Hargreaves  Lansdown do that for them.  
So I dont  think the transfers should  be unwound. My view was  and remains   that Mr and 
Mrs W were happy  to consolidate their pensions,  were happy to use Hargreaves Lansdowns 
platform and were  happy to access the funds through that platform.  The point of contention 
was  and remains   the issue of the manager-of-manager approach. 
On that issue, its difficult to argue that the extra layer of cost inherent in a manager-of-
manager approach will always prove  to be money  well spent. And Mr and Mrs W are correct  
to point out that they could have  undertaken the extra  research required to manage their 
own portfolio of funds  because  the necessary information on the funds  is readily available  on 
the Hargreaves Lansdown website. This would mean they would avoid having to pay 
Hargreaves Lansdown (through a higher charge) to undertake  the necessary research and 
Ref: DRN48012235fund selection.  But having reviewed the casefile once again,  I dont  think Mr and Mrs W were 
likely candidates to do this. And I dont think  Hargreaves  Lansdown would have seen them  
as such given they werent particularly experienced investors and didnt have a track record 
in doing anything similar. I think the following from the recommendations report  is illustrative  
in this respect:
You do not consider  yourself to be an investment expert and therefore you are not looking 
to construct  and manage an investment  portfolio  yourself as the sums involved are 
significant and you would  prefer to have the peace  of mind that a professional firm you trust 
is providing you with financial advice and managing your investments on your behalf.
The above  was in relation  to the recommendation  to use Hargreaves Lansdowns  Portfolio 
Management Service. But it highlights why Hargreaves  Lansdown  wouldnt  have  considered 
Mr and Mrs W obvious candidates for managing a portfolio of investment funds. Thats not to 
say Mr and Mrs W definitely  couldnt,  or wouldnt want  to, take this approach.  Its just that I 
cant fairly say Hargreaves Lansdown was negligent in advising  them  as it did.   
Other advice issues and information failings
Mr and Mrs W say Hargreaves Lansdown didnt explore other tax efficient ways to contribute  
to a pension and didnt do enough to draw to Mr Ws attention  the need to increase his 
contributions in order to secure, say, a spouses  pension.
My view is that these issues werent overlooked as the following excepts  from the 
recommendations report show:
[Mr W]; your employer provides you with membership of a Group Personal Pension Plan 
and contributes  1% of your salary.  I have asked you to check  whether they will match an 
increase to your own contributions but you have confirmed that they will not.
You would  like to start making additional  pension contributions to help you increase your
income in retirement.  You plan to make substantial additional contributions once your
mortgage is paid off but in the meantime would  like to pay in £100 p.m. I believe that
contributing to your pension is a better  way of saving for your retirement than an ISA (for
example) as you will benefit from the additional  tax relief (an additional £25 p.m). Please 
note that if you are not on track for a full state  pension then it may be better to direct 
additional contributions to voluntary national insurance  in order  to top up to the full 
entitlement. I would  recommend that you get an up to date state  pensions  forecast.
Mr and Mrs W may well argue that more could  have been done  in this respect. But its 
evident that Mr and Mrs W didnt have much capacity or appetite to increase their pension  
(or other) saving at the time so I dont think Hargreaves Lansdown should,  reasonably,  have 
devoted much more  time to this topic  and, even if it had, I dont think  it would have resulted 
in Mr and Mrs W contributing  more to their pensions.
Similar considerations apply to Mr and Mrs Ws concerns about Hargreaves Lansdowns 
assumptions in relation  to annuities. In its recommendations report  it assumed the annuities  
Mr and Mrs W would eventually purchase  wouldnt include a spouses pension or be index-
linked. Mr and Mrs W point out that an index-linked annuity would, typically, be in a persons 
best interest and a lack of spouses  pension on Mr Ws annuity could potentially result  in a 
significant drop in income for Mrs W given the disparity in their pension provision.
Ref: DRN48012236In my provisional decision,  I acknowledged Hargreaves Lansdown could have done more to 
highlight the potential implications of its annuity assumptions.  But even if it had, I dont think 
it would  have led to Mr and Mrs W saving more  in order  to generate the same  starting  
pension with index-linking and/or spouses benefits. As I said above, I dont think  Mr and 
Mrs W had the capacity  to save more. And I dont think it would have led to a different 
recommendation from Hargreaves Lansdown either  its recommendation was always 
predicated on optimising Mr and Mrs Ws investment  strategy given their circumstances. 
Hargreaves Lansdowns recommendations report said Mr and Mrs W had an objective of 
retiring on an income of £20,000  p.a. when Mr W reached  66 and that they were  on track to 
achieve this. This wasnt the case because the report also showed that they would only have 
a projected joint income of £20,000 once Mrs W reaches 67, which  is six years  after Mr W 
reaches 66.  
I acknowledged the disconnect between Hargreaves Lansdowns projections and its 
comment that they were  on track in my provisional decision. But I didnt think  it was reason 
enough to uphold the complaint, partly  because Mr and Mrs Ws projected pensions  were 
shown in the report and would have  given them a view of the position  they were  both in. 
In response, Mr and Mrs W say the intention was for Mr W to have an income  of £20,000  at 
age 66, an objective he wont achieve.  They  say indicating they were on track was 
fundamentally wrong. And they point to a number of additional  pieces of information that 
would have helped  them, such  as the pension Mr W was projected  to get at the age of 66, 
the size of any shortfall against a target income  of £20,000, the investment returns needed 
to bridge that shortfall and the age Mr W would be able to draw  a pension of £20,000.
I agree  with much of what Mr and Mrs W have said. Saying they were on track was 
misleading  I said as much in my provisional  decision.  And more  detail  on the projections 
would have been helpful. But its difficult to argue  that Mr and Mrs W would have done 
anything differently at the time even  if they had been  given  fuller  information on their 
projected pension  income. I recognise  Mr and Mrs W talk about potential sacrifices  that 
could have been made in order  to secure  their target retirement  income. But, as I said 
before, I dont think there was much capacity  or appetite to significantly increase pension 
saving and I dont  think theres compelling evidence to show  they would have taken a 
substantially more aggressive approach with their investments  either.
Of course,  having the full picture is important  in itself, even if it doesnt  lead to someone 
taking action straightaway. But its worth  noting  that Mr and Mrs W have pointed to a wide 
range of information and alternatives that they feel they should have been told about  and 
advised upon. This list includes: investing  directly  in the underlying  funds rather  than a 
manager-of-manager fund; advice on long term care; more information  on the potential risks 
of buying annuities without index-linking or a spouses pension;  more information on other 
tax efficient ways to invest in a pension; goal seek analysis to work  out the returns  and 
contributions needed  to hit a target pension income  of £20,000;  and advice on what would 
happen to the income  of the surviving  spouse  in the event of either Mr W or Mrs W dying.
I agree  that all the above could have  been fruitful topics for discussion between  the parties. 
But I need to make my decision  based  on whats fair and reasonable. And I dont think  it 
would be fair and reasonable to expect  Hargreaves  Lansdown to exhaustively cover  off 
every conceivable  question and avenue of enquiry  in this way. My view is that it covered the 
right areas with Mr and Mrs W. And whilst further  detail  may have been helpful in places, I 
dont think Mr and Mrs W would have taken different action if that detail had been  more 
Ref: DRN48012237forthcoming. More  to the point, the key issue here is whether the advice Hargreaves 
Lansdown did give was unsuitable. For the reasons  given above, I dont think  it was.  
Finally on this point, Mr and Mrs W have said the advice process was overly pressured.  Its a 
serious allegation and implies Mr and Mrs W had no choice but to follow  Hargreaves 
Lansdowns advice.  Ive given this serious consideration. But having listened to the 
recordings from the advice meetings  and reviewed the casefile once again, I dont think the 
process was overly pressured.  Its also notable that Mr and Mrs W rejected Hargreaves 
Lansdowns initial advice  which suggests they didnt  feel they had to follow everything it said.   
Mr and Mrs W feel Hargreaves  Lansdown should  refund  its advice fee and the 1% 
management fee for the manager-of-manager fund.  They also think  Hargreaves Lansdown 
should compensate  them  for any underperformance  relating to their asset allocation. Im 
sorry to disappoint  Mr and Mrs W but, for the reasons given above, I wont be asking 
Hargreaves Lansdown to take these steps.
Hargreaves Lansdowns offer to put things right
In my provisional decision,  I noted that Hargreaves Lansdown  offered  Mr and Mrs W a free 
review with an adviser to talk about long term care and the impact one of them dying would 
have on the surviving  spouses income. Hargreaves Lansdown offered this because  Mr and 
Mrs W felt these topics should  have  been  covered and were  included as part of the advice 
fee they paid.  Hargreaves  Lansdown also offered  to apply investment growth to the part of 
Mr and Mrs Ws pension  that was transferred but remained invested in cash  whilst they were  
considering their options. It also offered  to honour  a £250 transfer incentive as a gesture of 
goodwill even though Mr and Mrs W didnt  qualify for it (plus  another  £25 as part of its refer-
a-friend scheme which  it should  always have paid). I provisionally  concluded that 
Hargreaves Lansdowns offers were  fair and reasonable.
As outlined  previously, Mr and Mrs W consider Hargreaves  Lansdowns  advice to have been 
deficient and theyve proposed a number of ways  to redress  this. In terms of the cash  offers  
Hargreaves Lansdown has put forward, Mr and Mrs W have accepted these. They  have also 
accepted Hargreaves  Lansdowns offer to add investment  returns  to those funds that 
remained in cash.  On the issue of the free financial review, Mr and Mrs W say its a positive 
step but theyre reticent about engaging  with Hargreaves Lansdown once  again  given their 
unhappiness with what has happened and a lack of clarity of about exactly what  its free 
review would involve.  They  would prefer to receive a refund of the original advice  fee which 
would allow them to pay for advice elsewhere.
Ive explained  above why I wont be awarding compensation for Hargreaves Lansdowns 
advice. Mr and Mrs W have accepted the cash offer and the offer to backdate investment 
returns. So the only outstanding issue is the free review with Hargreaves Lansdown. Ive 
taken on board what Mr and Mrs W have said, but I see no compelling reason why 
Hargreaves Lansdown wouldnt be able to help Mr and Mrs W in relation to the areas they 
feel they still require  advice on. Clearly,  Mr and Mrs W dont have to take Hargreaves 
Lansdown up on its offer. But Im satisfied that Hargreaves Lansdowns offer is fair and 
reasonable.
Ref: DRN48012238With the above in mind,  Hargreaves Lansdown  should do the following to settle this 
complaint:
If it hasnt already  done so, it should provide  a free review  to Mr and Mrs W as outlined in 
its 24 May 2016 letter to Mr and Mrs W.
If it hasnt already  done so, it should backdate  the investment growth  Mr and Mrs W lost 
out on by having  part of their transfer  (the pension with a transfer  value of £4,429.54) 
invested in cash.  This is for the period between 29 April 2016 and 2 February 2017 and is 
in line with its proposal outlined in its 2 February 2017 letter  to Mr W. If Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have  gained  from investment returns in this period (because being in cash  would 
have been better than being exposed to other assets),  then there is nothing for 
Hargreaves Lansdown to do.
If it hasnt already  done so, it should pay Mr and Mrs W the £275  it offered  in its 
2 February 2017 letter
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, Im not upholding 
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  because I think  the offers put forward  by Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited are fair and reasonable. 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should take the steps  outlined  above to 
settle this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48012239COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the advice they received  from Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited. 
background
Hargreaves Lansdown provided Mr and Mrs W with financial advice in 2015 and 2016.  Mr and Mrs W 
have raised  a number of concerns about  what happened.  They say the quality of their advice  wasnt 
commensurate with the fee they paid. They  say Hargreaves Lansdowns assumptions and projections 
were incorrect.  They say the investment  strategy they were recommended was unsuitable. And they 
say Hargreaves Lansdown  didnt take into account a cooling off period in relation to the pension  pots 
they transferred  over. 
Mr and Mrs W complained to Hargreaves  Lansdown.  It offered Mr and Mrs W a free financial planning  
review. It said it would backdate a pension transfer to ensure Mr and Mrs W didnt  lose out on asset 
returns. And it said it would honour  its transfer  and refer-a-friend incentives. Mr and Mrs W didnt think 
Hargreaves Lansdowns various offers went far enough, so they brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs W asked for an ombudsman to look at everything  again. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, my provisional decision is to not uphold Mr and Mrs 
Ws complaint.
A number  of concerns  have  been raised by Mr and Mrs W during the course  of their complaint. 
Hargreaves Lansdown has responded to these concerns in some detail. Ive reviewed everything that 
has been provided to me very carefully. However,  its worth mentioning at this point that I wont be 
commenting on every  point  thats been made. I will be limiting my findings  to those  areas  that impact 
on the outcome of the complaint.
Investment strategy
Hargreaves Lansdown met with Mr and Mrs W in December 2015. It recommended they transfer their 
existing pension pots to Hargreaves Lansdown  and for Hargreaves Lansdown  to manage their 
investment decisions thereafter  in line with a 60%/40%  equity/bond asset allocation. Annual reviews, 
to take into account Mr and Mrs Ws evolving  financial position, were  also recommended. A report  
summarising the recommendations was drawn up and sent to Mr and Mrs W on 17 March  2016.  In a 
follow-up meeting, on 31 March 2016, Mr and Mrs W indicated that they didnt want the expense  of 
annual reviews.  Hargreaves  Lansdown recommended an alternative  (less expensive) strategy which  
dropped the annual reviews, kept the same asset allocation strategy and required Mr and Mrs W to 
invest in a Hargreaves Lansdown multi-manager fund.
Mr and Mrs W have said the investment strategy proposed by Hargreaves Lansdown removed  the 
lifestyle mechanism from their pension, meaning their pension assets wouldnt have automatically  
shifted towards bonds and cash as they approached retirement (as was the case  for them  previously).  
They argue this could leave them exposed if equity markets drop sharply close to their retirement. 
They also say the 60%/40% equity/bond asset allocation  wasnt suitable  because it meant a lower 
equity weighting than they had before and a lower equity  weighting than they should  have given  the 
amount of time to their retirement.
Ref: DRN480122310With regards to the lifestyle  strategy, I understand the point Mr and Mrs W make.  They  may well be 
exposed to market falls in the run up to retirement without a lifestyle strategy. Against this, in the 
recommendations report, Mr and Mrs W say they dread the thought of retiring and would like to 
extend their working life to beyond 70 if possible (they were  58 and 53 at the time of the advice).  So 
their situation  was relatively fluid. A lifestyle strategy  which works towards a fixed  retirement age  
might not be the best approach in such a scenario. So I think the merits, or otherwise,  of a lifestyle 
strategy for Mr and Mrs W is more  balanced than they say. Given this, I dont think I can reasonably 
say Hargreaves Lansdowns advice  was unsuitable.
I recognise Mr and Mrs W would need  follow-up reviews to maintain an appropriate asset allocation in 
the run-up to retirement which is something theyve said they dont want  to pay for. But I dont think  it 
reasonable on Mr and Mrs Ws part to expect to leave their pension  without reviewing it again, 
especially given the earliest potential date either one of them was looking to retire would have been at 
least 8 years away at that point (and most likely further away than that). And I dont think they would, 
reasonably, have expected all their future  planning needs to have  been fulfilled  there and then either  
because Hargreaves  Lansdown made it clear that follow-up reviews would, at some point, still be 
necessary. So even though  Mr and Mrs W may not have  wanted to pay for further advice, I dont  think 
I can fairly say this makes Hargreaves Lansdowns approach  inappropriate.
Turning to Mr and Mrs Ws asset allocation,  I think its clear from the meetings between the parties, 
and the written recommendations  that followed (pages 4-6 of the recommendations report especially) 
that the 60%/40% equity/bond split was designed with Mr and Mrs Ws risk tolerances in mind. Im 
also satisfied that they were  aware they were taking on a less aggressive stance than they had 
before. Therefore, whilst  there  may well be good reasons for a more aggressive approach, I think 
Hargreaves Lansdowns advice was in keeping with Mr and Mrs Ws preferences. 
Advice fee 
Mr and Mrs W say the advice fee they paid wasnt commensurate with the service they were provided 
with. They say this because they paid the complex  financial planning charge of 2% which  should 
have meant  they received the following:
This service is where we provide advice  on financial  planning  matters, specifically taking retirement 
benefits, estate planning,  pension transfers and long term care provision, which  demand a more  
specialised and time-intensive approach coupled  with more complex research.  [Hargreaves 
Lansdown key facts  document]
Mr and Mrs W make  the point that they didnt  receive  any advice on estate planning  or long term care,  
and they say the advice they received wasnt particularly complex. So they question the fee they paid.
My view is that it doesnt necessarily follow that every  client has to receive advice on everything 
mentioned in the list above.  For some clients, some of the areas mentioned may not be of particular 
importance at that point  in time. I think its legitimate  in situations like this for the adviser  to be led by 
the client,  even if that means not every  element on the list is covered. That appears to be the case 
here. Having  read the recommendations report, I can see Mr and Mrs Ws priority was their pension   
specifically ensuring their pension funds  were  invested in an optimal way given  their risk tolerances. 
So I dont think the adviser has necessarily done anything wrong in focussing on this aspect of Mr and 
Mrs Ws finances.  As it is, I dont need to make a finding on this matter because  Hargreaves 
Lansdown has offered free advice  to Mr and Mrs W on these other aspects  of their financial affairs.  
In its letter to Mr and Mrs W on 24 May 2016 Hargreaves Lansdown said:
Having reviewed your concerns it is clear you require  assistance  with preparing for the potential need 
of long term care in the future  and preparing  for what would happen to your income if something 
should happen to either of you. I would therefore like to offer a further, free review with an adviser.
The offer is repeated in its 2 February  2017 letter.  I dont know if Mr and Mrs W had this free review.  
But I think its a fair and reasonable solution to this aspect of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.  So if Mr and 
Ref: DRN480122311Mrs W havent  taken up this offer, but want to now do so, then Hargreaves Lansdown should help 
them with this.
Misleading and inaccurate projections
The recommendations  report drawn up by Hargreaves Lansdown said Mr and Mrs W had an objective 
of retiring on an income of £20,000 p.a. when  Mr W reached 66:
Ideally you would like the option  of retiring on an income of at least £20,000 when [Mr W] reaches  
age 66.
The report goes on to say Mr and Mrs W are on track to achieve this. 
However, the report also details when the projected  benefits  would be due. And this shows Mr W 
taking his pension  at 66, which would be in 2023, and Mrs W taking her pension at 67, which  would 
be in 2029. This would mean  a joint income of less than £20,000 when Mr W reaches 66 because  
Mrs W wouldnt be drawing  on her pension  at that point. 
So Mr and Mrs W are correct  there is a disconnect between some  of the wording in the report  and 
Hargreaves Lansdown should really have done better. However, its not apparent to me that it really 
was Mr and Mrs Ws expectation to both retire when Mr W reaches 66 (Mrs W would be 60 at that 
point), especially  given their ambivalence  about retiring  early. It seems  more likely to me that they 
wanted a joint pension of £20,000 and had taken on board the fact that this would  only be achievable  
once their respective  retirement  ages had been reached. After all, the table in the report does clearly  
present this information and the correspondence between the parties  shows Mr and Mrs W 
understood their retirements  would  be staggered.
 
The recommendations  report also assumed the annuities  Mr and Mrs W would  eventually purchase 
wouldnt include a spouses  pension or be index-linked. Mr and Mrs W say adding  these benefits  
would reduce  the retirement income outlined in the report which makes the report, and 
recommendation, misleading. 
Its certainly true that Mr and Mrs Ws pension  could  decrease in real terms based on the type of 
annuity Hargreaves Lansdown assumed they would  purchase. And its also true that a lack of 
spouses benefit would  impact on the surviving  partner in the event  of Mr W or Mrs W dying.  So the 
headline figures in the recommendations  report dont tell the whole story  and I think  Hargreaves 
Lansdown could have done better in highlighting  this. But the annuity assumptions were provided in 
the report. And an annuity  that doesnt increase with inflation, or doesnt have a spouses  benefit, isnt 
necessarily unsuitable anyway. Many  people  choose this option  because it provides  a better  income 
to begin with. And a spouses pension  is less pressing  if a spouse has their own pension  as is the 
case here. 
Besides, Mr and Mrs Ws ultimate choice of annuity hasnt been decided yet so they could  still add the 
features discussed above. They would  need a larger retirement fund in order to do this if they want  
the same starting pension. But this would  require them to pay more into their pension given their risk 
tolerances are relatively fixed. It doesnt negate the advice that they were given  about  optimising  
their investments  which  is advice that would always have been applicable. 
Cooling off period
Mr and Mrs W had reservations about  the advice they were originally  given. Hargreaves Lansdowns 
revised its recommendations in its 1 April 2016  letter.  But Mr and Mrs W still had reservations  
because they emailed Hargreaves Lansdown on 26 April 2016  to say they wanted more time to 
consider their options.  Unfortunately their pensions had already transferred to Hargreaves  Lansdown 
by this point.  It looks like the pensions were invested in line with Hargreaves Lansdowns  
recommendations, except for one (valued at £4,429.54).  This fund was transferred across to 
Hargreaves Lansdown but only after Mr and Mrs W had complained, so it wasnt reinvested but 
Ref: DRN480122312remained in cash instead. Mr and Mrs W say they had a 30-day cooling off period, so theyre upset  
that the transfers went ahead  before the 30 days had elapsed. 
I can see why there has been a misunderstanding. The 30-day cooling  off period doesnt mean a halt 
in proceedings during that 30-day period. It means if the transfer has been agreed  as was the case 
here  it goes ahead but it can then be cancelled if the consumer changes their mind. If it is cancelled,  
the transferred  assets are then returned  to the transferring scheme  (or to another provider if the 
transferring scheme wont  accept the returned funds). So Hargreaves  Lansdown was operating in line 
with its procedures in transferring the assets across.  But, as Hargreaves Lansdown admits, it should 
have done more  to explain  the cooling  off period during  its meetings with Mr and Mrs W. And if the 
cooling off period  had been explained more  thoroughly during the meeting, its possible Mr and Mrs W 
would have put off their investment decision.
Ive given  this issue careful consideration because  if I accept Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have gone 
ahead with Hargreaves Lansdowns recommendation, then everything relating to the recommendation 
 including the pension  transfers  would have to be unwound. 
Having reviewed  the correspondence between the parties during  April 2016,  I can see Hargreaves 
Lansdown offered to return the transferred funds. It doesnt look like Mr and Mrs W were willing to do 
this at the time. And having read Mr and Mrs Ws subsequent comments,  I dont think there is now an 
appetite to unwind things  either. It seems they still want exposure to the underlying funds  in 
Hargreaves Lansdowns multi-manager fund. Its just that theyre unhappy  with the added  expense of 
having an investment manager select those  underlying  funds, the cost of their advice and the lack of 
advice on long term care and estate planning. So, based  on everything thats been provided, I dont 
think it would be appropriate  to unwind everything and put Mr and Mrs W back in the position they 
were in prior to the transfer happening.
In terms of the extra layer of expense involved  in a manager-of-manager  approach, I dont think  it 
would be reasonable to compensate Mr and Mrs W for this. I take on board their scepticism  of the 
extra value this approach  can provide. But I dont  think they can have it both ways.  They cant, 
reasonably, take the position  of being satisfied with the underlying funds in their portfolio  but 
simultaneously be unwilling  to pay for the cost involved in researching and selecting those  funds. 
Mr and Mrs W also say they wanted active fund management and wanted to delegate  decision 
making to experts. And they discounted certain other options such  as stakeholder pensions and 
investment trusts. Given these preferences and constraints  and their earlier  rejection of Hargreaves 
Lansdown discretionary management service  I dont think a manager-of-manager  strategy  was an 
unreasonable option.
That leaves the issue of the pension that was transferred but remained in cash. This happened 
because the transfer came through later than the other ones so Hargreaves Lansdown knew at that 
point about Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. The assets werent therefore  invested but remained in cash 
meaning Mr and Mrs W were potentially  losing out on investment returns. 
Its not clear to me from the email correspondence  whether the decision  to remain  in cash was down  
to Mr and Mrs W or Hargreaves Lansdown. It doesnt  matter either  way, though,  because  Hargreaves 
Lansdown said it would  back-date  the investment to put Mr and Mrs W in the position of having  been 
invested in line with its recommendation (that is, in the equity and bond fund) from the time of the 
transfer (29 April 2016) to the time of its offer (2 February 2017).  By doing  this, Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have lost out on investment returns as a result of a portion of their funds being out of the 
market.
I recognise there is a question  of whether Hargreaves Lansdown should  extend  its offer beyond  2 
February 2017.  But I dont think it should be exposed to an open-ended liability in this way. Mr and 
Mrs W knew what the situation was with this particular  pension  pot by 2 February 2017  and 
probably sooner than that. And they knew what Hargreaves Lansdowns  offer was. So if they 
remained in cash after 2 February  2017,  it was their choice, taken with full knowledge  of the facts. 
Ref: DRN480122313With this in mind, Im satisfied Hargreaves Lansdown shouldnt compensate Mr and Mrs W for any 
lost investment income after this date. 
Mr and Mrs W were  clearly  annoyed at how the 30-day cooling off period worked  out in practice. And 
Hargreaves Lansdown has admitted it could  have  done  a bit more  to explain how it worked. So I think 
it only fair for it to pay at least  some  compensation for the confusion  and distress this would  have 
caused. It has offered  to pay a transfer incentive of £250 which, strictly  speaking, Mr and Mrs W didnt 
qualify for. It also offered  £25 under  a refer-a-friend  scheme. It looks like Mr and Mrs W (or the person 
that referred them at least)  did qualify for this. So I think it terms of compensation, Hargreaves 
Lansdown has offered £250, with the other £25 being due anyway.
I think  £250  compensation  is fair. Yes, Mr and Mrs W were put out by the confusion  over the 30-day  
cooling off period.  But they did agree  to the transfer. They were  provided with details on the cooling 
off period in Hargreaves Lansdowns terms and conditions.  And, at the time, they were offered the 
option of reversing the transfer  but chose not to. So anything more  than £250 wouldnt, in my view, be 
proportionate.
Summary
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ws experience with Hargreaves Lansdown could have been better. They  
had reservations about the initial advice they were given. They wanted to halt the transfer of their 
pensions but were  too late to do so. They  had, and continue to have, reservations  about  the 
subsequent advice they were given and the value Hargreaves Lansdown has added. And, as Ive 
pointed out, Hargreaves Lansdown wasnt always as clear as it could have  been in its 
communications.  
However, Hargreaves Lansdown has tried to put things right for Mr and Mrs W. It has offered free 
advice to take into account  Mr and Mrs Ws concerns about long term care and estate planning. It has 
offered to apply investment growth to the part of Mr and Mrs Ws pension  that had remained  invested 
in cash  and therefore out of the market. It has offered to pay Mr and Mrs W £250 as a gesture of 
goodwill (plus another £25 which it should  always have paid). And whilst Im sure Mr and Mrs W could 
point towards  a number of other  investment strategies that could  work for them, that doesnt mean  the 
options put forward  by Hargreaves Lansdowns  were  unsuitable.  
Given the above,  I think  the offers put forward by Hargreaves Lansdown to resolve Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint are sufficient.  It should therefore provide free financial advice to Mr and Mrs W with 
particular attention to long term care,  as outlined  in its 24 May 2016 letter. Unless  it has already done 
so, Hargreaves Lansdown  should also pay Mr and Mrs W the £275 it offered in its 2 February 2017 
letter. And Hargreaves  Lansdown  should  back-date the investment growth Mr and Mrs W lost out on 
by having part of their pension  transfer  (£4,429.54) invested  in cash. This is for the period between 29 
April 2016 and 2 February 2017 and is in line with its proposal outlined in its 2 February  2017 letter. If 
Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have gained from investment  returns  in this period (because being in cash 
would have been better than being exposed to other assets), then there is nothing for Hargreaves 
Lansdown to do.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is to not uphold this complaint  because I think  the offers  put forward by 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited  are fair and reasonable.  
Subject to any comments or evidence I receive, I intend  to ask Hargreaves  Lansdown Asset  
Management Limited  to take the actions  outlined above.  
Ref: DRN4801223