K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Shawbrook  Bank  Limited (Shawbrook) declined  his claim made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA). He took out a point of sale loan 
with Shawbrook to pay for a surgical procedure and aftercare for his son. Mr M would like 
the loan cancelled and a refund of the payments made towards it because his son is 
unhappy with the results  of the surgery and aftercare.  
Mr M has been represented by his son throughout, but to make  things simpler, Ill mainly 
refer to Mr M. 
background
In May 2016, Mr M paid £6,000 for a surgical procedure and aftercare for his son using a 
point of sale loan hed taken out with Shawbrook. A company which Ill refer to as K 
provided the surgery and aftercare to Mr Ms son. I understand this came with a guarantee 
that if the procedure wasnt  successful, K would offer further surgery and aftercare at no 
additional cost.  
Mr Ms son was unhappy with the results of the initial procedure  and aftercare. He 
underwent a second procedure, which he was also unhappy with. Following on from this, K 
went out of business and Mr Ms son didnt receive  the second set of aftercare. 
Mr M raised  a claim with Shawbrook  under section  75 of the CCA for breach of contract. He 
asked Shawbrook to cancel the agreement  and requested all payments made towards it to 
be refunded. Shawbrook declined the claim as it didnt believe the necessary requirements 
for a claim to be made  under section 75 had been  met. 
Unhappy with the response received from Shawbrook, Mr M referred  the complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  and he didnt think that Shawbrook  acted unfairly  
when it turned the claim down. He said the contract for the surgeries and aftercare  was 
between Mr Ms son and K. Therefore, because Mr M didnt have a contract with K, he was 
satisfied the necessary conditions for a section 75 claim to be considered hadnt been met. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigator.  He agreed hed paid for the surgery and aftercare for 
his son. But he thought  the procedures were unsafe  and illegal. As things  couldnt  be 
resolved, Mr M asked that an ombudsman review the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M paid for the surgery under a regulated  consumer credit agreement with Shawbrook. 
Our service is able to consider complaints about these sorts of agreements.  
When considering  if Shawbrook acted fairly in declining  Mr Ms claim, Ive considered the 
relevant law. In this case, section 75 of the CCA makes Shawbrook responsible for a breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier  under certain conditions. One of these 
Ref: DRN48793472conditions is that there  is a direct relationship between  the debtor (Mr M), the creditor  
(Shawbrook), and the supplier (K). 
The CCA defines a debtor as the individual receiving credit under a consumer credit 
agreement. In this circumstance  thats Mr M, because he entered into the agreement with 
Shawbrook. But the surgery was for his son  Mr M received no goods or services  from K. 
Although we dont  have  all the paperwork that would have been issued by K, theres no 
dispute that Mr Ms adult  son received the surgery and that he consented to it. Given  the 
invasive nature of the procedure, I dont think I could fairly say that anyone other than Mr Ms 
son contracted with K. Due to the type of service provided, I dont think the surgery can 
relate to Mr Ms joint affairs either.  Taking all this into account, I dont think that Mr M was a 
contracting party with K. 
I appreciate why Mr M is unhappy with this. I can also understand his strength of feeling that 
Shawbrook should  be responsible for dealing with the claim, especially as K is no longer 
trading. But here I am looking at the actions of Shawbrook and its liability,  and my decision is 
that Im not persuaded the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement exists for a valid 
section 75 claim against  Shawbrook. I therefore  dont feel that Shawbrook  acted unfairly  in 
how it handled Mr Ms claim  and I wont be directing it to take any further action. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4879347