K820x#14complaint
Miss H has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs service after she made a claim on 
her motor insurance policy.
background
Miss H was in an accident with a lorry. Both drivers said the other was at fault.  AXA settled 
Miss Hs claim  for the damage to her car. But she wasn't happy that it didn't keep her up-to-
date with what was happening with the liability aspect of her claim. She was also unhappy 
that it eventually  settled the claim  on a 50/50 split liability  basis.  AXA agreed that its service 
hadn't always been as good as it would like. So it paid Miss H £200 compensation for the 
impact of that. But it felt it had come to the right decision about liability.  
Miss H brought  her complaint to us. Our adjudicator thought that AXA had dealt with Miss H 
fairly. Miss H didn't agree  so her complaint's been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Miss H has made a number of detailed points. I've considered  
everything shes said carefully but in this decision I will focus on what I see as being the key 
outstanding points following our adjudicators assessment of her complaint.
Miss H is adamant  that she wasn't in any way at fault for the accident.  So I can understand 
her frustration that AXAs made a decision that essentially  means that she was partly to 
blame. And, as a result, she now has a fault claim affecting her insurance history.
Its important that I make  it clear  that its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, 
as ultimately thats a matter for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Miss Hs policy allows  
AXA to settle claims  as it sees fit. That means  it doesnt require Miss Hs consent to decide  
how to settle a claim and it may make a decision  that Miss H doesnt  agree with. But Ill look 
to see that its done so reasonably.
Both Miss H and the lorry driver gave  opposite versions of events. They  both said they were  
in their own lane when the other driver crossed  into it. In other words Miss H said the lorry 
driver crossed  from the left into her lane and hit her. And the lorry driver said Miss H tried to 
merge with his left hand lane from the outside lane causing the accident.
Both Miss H and the lorry diver said they had independent witnesses to support their version 
of events. AXA didn't  ever receive a response  from Miss Hs witness.  I've seen that the initial  
phone number Miss H gave for her witness was wrong. But after Miss H corrected that AXA 
tried several times to contact the witness: leaving  voicemails  and sending  texts with its 
contact details, but I've seen no convincing evidence that Miss Hs witness  ever got back in 
touch with AXA.
The lorry drivers  witness did provide evidence. He said that both drivers could have done 
more to avoid  the accident. But his evidence supported the lorry drivers version of events  
that Miss H changed lanes into the lorry drivers lane and principally held her at fault for the 
Ref: DRN49070972accident. Given that evidence AXA decided to try to settle the claim on the best terms 
available to it and negotiated a 50/50  split liability with the lorry drivers  insurer.
Miss H remains  unhappy  with that decision.  She said she was prepared to go to court to 
allow it to decide  liability. But AXA had to make an assessment of what it thinks  would be the 
likely outcome if the claim went to court. And court proceedings always involve an element of 
risk for both parties. And defending or pursuing an action in court  will inevitably involve 
additional costs.  As AXA would  have  to incur the costs of instructing lawyers, on top of the 
extra administrative costs defending an action would bring. And, at the time it settled the 
claim on a 50/50 basis  the only independent  witness evidence  available said Miss H was 
more at fault than the other  driver.  So if AXA had let the matter  go to court it could have 
faced significantly higher costs. It follows that I think its decision to settle the claim on a 
50/50 split liability  basis at that time was reasonable.
Miss H thinks  that AXA should have tried to contact her witness by post.  But, as far as I can 
see, the first request  it had to do so came from Miss H. And that was after AXA had already 
settled the claim. So it didn't pursue the witness evidence further.
That AXA didn't at least try to contact the witness by post at that point  appears  to be a 
source of frustration for Miss H. So I've thought about what  might  have been the likely 
outcome if AXA had contacted Miss Hs witness, the witness  had replied  and completely 
agreed with Miss Hs version of events. In doing so I recognise  that such  evidence in support 
of Miss H wouldn't  mean  that the lorry drivers witness  evidence should be discounted.  And 
in those circumstances, there would have been two independent witnesses offering 
completely opposite views of how the accident  happened. So both sets of evidence  would 
need to be considered and weighed.
I know Miss H thinks the photos she took after the accident support her account. But AXA 
did consider those and it wasn't persuaded that they showed the accident happened how 
Miss H said it did. And I don't find that position unreasonable  as the images  aren't conclusive 
and are open to interpretation. And the most compelling evidence  would remain  the witness 
evidence. And in circumstances where insurers are faced with opposing witness evidence 
with no clear route to determine which one is most likely correct,  then its not unusual  for 
insurers to agree to settle the claim on a 50/50 split basis without the additional costs  and 
risks of taking the matter  to court. So, even if AXA had got the witness evidence Miss H 
thinks it should have  done I don't think its likely that Miss Hs position would have been  any 
different, as a 50/50 outcome would appear  the most likely outcome in those circumstances. 
It follows that I don't think it was unfair  that AXA didn't pursue the witness evidence after it 
had already settled  the claim on the best terms it was likely to achieve  with or without that 
evidence. 
AXA has previously acknowledged that some of its service wasn't good enough. And it paid 
Miss H £200 in compensation for that. I think that was reasonable. And, while  I can 
understand Miss Hs frustration, I don't think AXAs  decision to settle the claim on a 50/50 
basis was unfair. So Im not going to direct  AXA to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2019.
Ref: DRN49070973Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4907097