K820x#14complaint
Mr Y has complained that Bastion  Insurance Co. Ltd (Bastion)  wont cover all of his legal 
costs under his After  the Event legal expenses policy.
For the sake of clarity when I refer to Bastion I mean both the underwriter and any agents 
working on its behalf. 
background
Mr Y took out an After  the Event (ATE) legal expenses policy in 2013 as he had decided  to 
bring a case against  his previous employer  for injuries he believes he sustained  while  at 
work. The policy was underwritten by Bastion, although Mr Y bought it from one of Bastions 
agents. At the time Mr Y was represented  by his solicitor who was advising him directly and 
running his case  for him. 
The policy was tiered and Mr Y had to submit applications for cover  at three different stages 
in order to remain indemnified under the policy. The initial cost of the policy (at stage one) 
was £1,450. When Mr Ys solicitor  contacted  Bastion  in May 2015 to explain the matter  was 
proceeding to court  and get stage two cover, he was required to provide the underwriters 
with additional  information and relevant evidence and the cost of the policy  increased  to 
£3,690. Mr Ys solicitor  was told that it was important to contact the underwriter  again  once a 
court date had been confirmed, and no later than 28 days prior to the matter  being heard by 
a judge. In addition the policy  stated all material evidence  needed  to be given to Bastion so it 
could consider, at each  stage of the policy, whether  or not it was prepared  accept  the risk 
and continue to provide  Mr Y with cover and indemnify his claim. 
On 2 April 2017  Bastions  agents contacted Mr Ys solicitors and asked for an update  on the 
case. It received  a response 26 May 2017  informing it that the matter had had been heard 
on 19 and 20 April and Mr Y had lost his case.  The solicitor  explained  that Mr Y was now 
liable for both his own legal  costs  and those of the defendant. Mr Ys solicitor told Bastion he 
would forward on costings  information as soon as it was confirmed but it was likely to be in 
excess of £27,000.  The solicitor expected Bastion to pay the full legal fees under the terms 
of the policy.
Bastion replied to say that under the terms and conditions  of the policy  Mr Y should have 
contacted it at least 28 days before the trial was due to begin for stage  three authorisation. It 
also repeated that Mr Ys solicitor shouldve provided it with copies of all relevant  evidence 
before it was heard by the judge. Bastion explained that as a result  of not doing this Mr Y 
had no stage three cover under the policy and so he was not indemnified  by Bastion and it 
wasnt liable to cover  the outstanding costs. Mr Ys solicitor  argued that it was unfair of 
Bastion to take this approach and said that even  if he had provided it with all of the relevant 
information on time the underwriter wouldve agreed to continue  the cover  and so it should 
now act as though no omission had been  made. 
Bastion responded by extending its sympathies  to Mr Y but confirmed that the lack of 
information provided by Mr Ys solicitor had resulted in several of the policys  terms and 
conditions being  breached. In particular it referenced the fact that Mr Ys solicitor had 
received a trial date and important evidence  both from medical  and engineering experts, in 
February and March 2017. However this information  wasnt passed onto Bastion until after 
the trial was completed. 
Ref: DRN40770932With this omission in mind  Bastion referred  to section 2(b) of the policys  terms and 
conditions that state:
We shall not be liable for any claim as a result of any failure by you or your legal 
representatives to provide  any material  information  in connection with the legal action 
However this wasnt the only issue raised by Bastion. It further  explained that by failing to 
inform it that the matter  was going to trial Mr Y didnt actually have the relevant stage three  
cover available to him under the policy. There was a separate  premium  for that and this 
hadnt been calculated or agreed upon  because without all the relevant information Bastion 
was unable to reassess  the risk with the case and decide whether or not it would still 
indemnify Mr Ys potential  losses. 
It referred to section 4 (c) of the policy which states:
You or your legal  representative must obtain  our written agreement to issue proceedings in 
the legal  action.
Bastion has said that the failure  to inform it of the trial date and provide copies of the 
relevant information  was a fundamental breach of the policys  terms and conditions. 
However it did agree to provide Mr Y with cover for his pre-trial costs  (so all costs incurred 
during stage one and two cover). As a result of this Bastion has paid just over £11,000 of 
legal fees for Mr Y. However  this meant  that Mr Y would now be personally liable for the 
remainder of the fees which  amounted  to approximately  £16,800.   
Mr Ys solicitors  argued that this was unfair. He agreed that he had failed to pass on the 
relevant information  in the required time scales but was insistent that if he had done  this as 
requested Bastion would  still have offered cover as throughout the life span of the case  both 
he, and the barrister involved in representing Mr Y, believed the case had strong prospects 
of success. He felt Bastion wouldve reached the same conclusion  and so it should provide 
cover as though  no failings  had occurred. 
Bastion disagreed. It said that the trial judge based  his reasoning  for not upholding the 
complaint on evidence that it was never  given  the opportunity to review.  It says that given 
the judge found reasons  in the evidence not to uphold the case  in Mr Ys favour theres  no 
guarantee that Bastion  wouldnt have  viewed it in the same way. In any case  it said despite  
the failing  to pass over relevant evidence, the fact that Mr Y didnt have stage three  cover  
confirmed at any point  means that he wasnt covered under the policy by the time the case  
was lost at court. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  already.  She found that Bastion wasnt 
liable for the costs incurred by Mr Y as Mr Ys solicitor had failed to secure him stage three  
cover under the policy. In addition she also agreed  that the failure of Mr Ys solicitor to send 
over the relevant evidence in a timely manner also breached the terms and conditions  of the 
policy. For these reasons she didnt think that Bastion needed to do any more  in relation to 
the claim.
Mr Ys representative disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to reconsider the case. He 
claimed that Bastions behaviour was neither fair nor reasonable and that had all the 
information been received  on time the underwriter wouldve agreed to continue the cover 
and so it should be held liable for Mr Ys costs.   
Ref: DRN40770933my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to clarify  that I can only consider the actions of Bastion in regards to how it has 
applied the terms  and conditions of Mr Ys policy to his claim. I cant comment on the 
behaviour of Mr Ys solicitor as that falls outside of this services jurisdictional remit. If Mr Y is 
unhappy with the service  provided to him by his solicitor he should contact the solicitor  
directly in the first instance and if he remains unhappy after that point he can speak to the 
legal ombudsman about his options. 
I would also like to acknowledge that I know Mr Y only became  aware of all the details of his 
claim after the investigator completed  her work on his case  as, until recently, his solicitor had 
been dealing  with this service on his behalf. Mr Y wanted to clarify  he didnt know the full 
extent of what happened with his claim and I want to assure  him that I understand this and 
have kept this in mind  when considering his complaint. 
That said I am unable  to uphold Mr Ys complaint  so I wont  be asking Bastion to do anymore  
in relation to this claim and Id like to explain why. I agree  with Bastion when it states  that 
due to the nature of the tiered policy, and the fact that it was never given the chance to 
reassess the risk attached to Mr Ys claim, and confirm  the cost of the premium at stage 
three (assuming it would still have been  happy to offer him cover), Mr Y didnt actually have 
cover under the policy when his case was heard by the judge. And because he didnt have 
cover Bastion arent  obliged to pay his legal  fees for him. 
In addition to this I also agree failure to send the relevant information received by Mr Ys 
solicitors in February and March was also a fundamental breach of the policys  terms at 
section 2 (b). I dont  agree  with Mr Ys solicitors  opinion that there can be no doubt that 
Bastion wouldve agreed  to provide  cover  at stage three and so it should  act as though cover 
was agreed. Its not possible to know what Bastion wouldve agreed to given that the same 
information Mr Ys solicitor is definite  proved  the case would be successful is also the same 
information the judge ultimately relied  on to find in favour of the defendant. 
Indeed having read through the policys terms and conditions  I can see that Bastion couldve 
refused to cover any of the associated costs  of Mr Ys case due to the failure to provide it 
with all the relevant  information in a timely manner. Instead it has agreed to cover the costs 
incurred by Mr Y at pre-trial stage  while he had stage one and stage two cover  confirmed. I 
believe this is a fair approach for Bastion  to take and I wont  be asking it to do any more in 
relation to Mr Ys claim. 
I do appreciate that this means Mr Y is now personally liable for the outstanding costs  and I 
would like to acknowledge  that this must be a very distressing and stressful  outcome for him. 
I am sorry  he has found himself in this position but am unable to say it is the result of any 
failings on the part of Bastion. 
Ref: DRN40770934my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint  against  Bastion Insurance Co. 
Ltd. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4077093