K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Zurich Insurance Plc (Zurich) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI) with a mortgage.
background
In 2003 Mr and Mrs M took out two PPI policies  following a phone  call with Zurich. This 
happened sometime after they completed  on a new mortgage taken out with another  
business.
The evidence indicates that the policies were both held in Mr and Mrs Ms joint names  and 
they provided unemployment cover  only for up to 12 months for each successful claim. At 
the outset policy one as Ill refer to it cost around  £47 a month and it provided a monthly 
benefit of around  £1300 (the benefit appears  to have  been split 60/40 in favour of Mr M.)  
The policy ended in 2010.
Policy two cost just under £16 a month and it provided a monthly benefit of around £455  a 
month (the benefit appears  to have been split 60/40 in favour of Mr M.) The policy ended in 
2015.
The adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld.  They  said there wasnt 
enough evidence  to persuade them that Mr and Mrs M chose to take out PPI knowing  it was 
optional.
Zurich disagreed. It said that the evidence clearly  shows that Mr and Mrs M benefitted from 
the policies.
Because the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it came to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision of November 2019  in which  I said that I was likely to reach  a 
substantially different conclusion to the adjudicator and not uphold  the complaint. In 
summary I made  the following provisional findings:
I didnt think Mr and Mrs M had suffered  a financial loss as a result of having PPI.
based on the figures provided by Zurich  (set out in my provisional  decision)  its 
records showed Mr and Mrs M received  more  in monetary terms from the claims they 
made on the policies  than they paid in premiums. And more than they would now 
receive if their complaint was upheld and compensation was awarded in line with our 
usual approach of putting a customer back in the position they wouldve been in had 
PPI not been sold.
in those circumstances I said it wasnt necessary  for me to consider or reach any 
conclusions on Mr and Mrs Ms representations about the policy being mis-sold.
Neither Zurich nor Mr and Mrs M (whether directly  or via their representative)  have replied to 
my provisional decision.
While Im mindful that Mr and Mrs M havent  replied to my provisional decision, Im satisfied 
that it was sent to and received by their representative. In which case,  they wouldve been 
aware of the deadline for responses. So I think its reasonable to assume  that if Mr and Mrs 
M  or their representative  had wanted to reply  they wouldve done  so by now. I therefore 
think it is safe for me carry on and issue my final decision.
Ref: DRN45713262my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and because Ive not been given anything  new to consider, I see no reason  
to change my mind and depart from the reasoning and conclusion  I set out in my provisional 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2020. 
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4571326