K820x#14complaint
Ms C has complained to us about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold to her 
in 2002. Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) has taken responsibility for the sale 
so Ill refer to FICL throughout this decision. 
background
The PPI was sold to Ms C with a store  card. Our adjudicator assessed this complaint and 
thought that it shouldnt  be upheld.  
Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint been passed to me 
to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Cs complaint and Ill explain the reasons 
for this.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the cover. Looking at Ms Cs 
circumstances, I think  she met these rules. This means she would have  been  able to claim 
on the policy if she needed to.
Next, Ive considered  whether it was made sufficiently clear  to Ms C that the policy was 
optional. The policy was sold in store when  Ms C applied for the store card.  Ms C informed 
us unequivocally  that she wasnt told anything about  the PPI and she was rushed at the time 
of signing the application form. Ive been  provided with a copy  of the form. It contained a 
section about  the PPI policy which invited  Ms C to sign in order to confirm  whether or not 
she wanted to take it out. The section was headed ACCOUNT COVER and said;  
(Only sign this box if you require Account Cover.) 
Ms C signed  this section.
In my view, given she was making an important financial decision,  its most likely that Ms C 
would have read the form. I think, having done  so, its most likely shed have seen that she 
was signing to take out the policy and shed have  known that it was her choice  whether or 
not to take it out. I also think shed have understood that she could  decline  the PPI simply by 
leaving the section  blank. So in my view on balance FICL made  it sufficiently clear to Ms C 
that the policy was optional.  
Next, FICL didnt recommend the PPI cover to Ms C, and so wasnt  required to make  sure 
the policy was suitable for her. But it did have to give her information that was clear,  fair and 
not misleading about the PPI so that she could make the decision for herself whether or not 
Ref: DRN47934912to take it out. And looking at the available evidence about the sale, I think  its likely that FICL  
could have given  Ms C better information.  
So Ive considered whether, if Ms C had been  given clearer information, it would have 
affected her decision about the policy. First of all from the information about  Ms Cs 
circumstances, she wouldnt have been  caught by any of the major exclusions or restrictions.  
The purpose of the cover  was to help Ms C make her repayments  if she lost her job or was 
too unwell  to work. Ms C told us that at the time of the sale she wasnt  entitled to 
employment or redundancy protection from her employer and she didnt  have 
significant savings.  
From what  we know about this type of policy, the cost was likely to have been  no more than 
£1.00 per £100  of the outstanding monthly balance  on Ms Cs card.  This was more 
expensive than some  other  policies  weve  seen,  however it also paid out a 
higher- than- average  benefit of 15%. This would  have been paid until the policy  ended, Ms C 
returned to work or her balance  was cleared. Ive seen nothing  that suggests Ms C would 
have found these monthly charges  unaffordable  and the benefits would have paid out in 
addition to any other means  she already  had in place at the time. 
Ms C told us that her family would have  helped her if she was too ill to work  or if she lost her 
job. But while Ive no doubt  her family  would have wanted to help her, the degree to which 
they could have done so would have depended  on the circumstances of her family at that 
particular time. So this wasnt guaranteed. 
Ive considered what Ms C has told us about not needing the PPI, but overall Ive concluded 
that if FICL  had provided Ms C with clearer information, its unlikely that it would have  put her 
off taking out the policy. On balance, I dont think having better  information  would have  
changed her mind about taking out the PPI and so I dont  think FICL needs  to do anything  to 
put things right.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms C but for the reasons Ive set out above, Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4793491