K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank,  wont refund to 
him the money  that he paid for some ski resort  lift passes.  
background
Mr R used his Tesco Bank credit card in May 2018  to pay £323.50 for annual  ski resort lift 
passes for himself and his son which were valid from November  2018  to October 2019. The 
cost of the passes  was £250 for an adult and £72 for a child.  The funicular railway, which 
was one of the main  lifts covered by the passes, was closed in September 2018 because  of 
structural safety concerns  and has remained  closed  since then. 
He claimed a refund from Tesco Bank  under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 
because he wasnt able to use the funicular railway and he said that no alternative was 
provided. Tesco Bank said that it was unable to establish any breach of contract by the 
supplier. Mr R wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She thought that Tesco  
Bank had declined Mr Rs claim unfairly  as there  had been  a breach of contract because the 
resort wasnt able provide the services that hed paid for. She recommended  that Tesco  
Bank should refund £250 to Mr R and that it should reconstruct his credit  card account as if 
the transaction hadnt taken place.
Tesco Bank has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in 
summary, that the resort had made it clear in the conditions of the purchase that services 
can be changed at any time without notice  and its clear that no breach of contract  has 
occurred.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and to Tesco Bank on 11 May 2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
In certain  circumstances,  section  75 gives a consumer an equal  right to claim 
against the supplier  of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier.  To be able to uphold  Mr Rs 
complaint about  Tesco  Bank, I must  be satisfied  that theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the resort and that Tesco Banks response to his 
claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not determining the outcome of 
Mr Rs claim under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that.
When Mr R bought the passes in May 2018 he confirmed :
I have read and agree to the Terms & Conditions.
The terms and conditions  say:
[The resort] reserves the right to change prices and services  at any time 
without notice; and
.
Ref: DRN41589152[The resort] retains the right to close all or any of the lifts at any time, for any 
reason. Snowsports  members are reminded that lift operations  can be 
affected by weather and snow conditions.
The funicular  railway was closed  in September 2018  because  of structural  safety  
concerns and hasnt  opened since then. But the ski resort has been open  and other  
lifts covered by the pass have been operating - so Mr R and his son would have been 
able to use the passes to access  the skiing in the resort. The passes  also included 
other benefits. 
I can understand Mr Rs frustration and disappointment that he and his son havent 
been able to use the passes as hed intended  - but I can only uphold  Mr Rs 
complaint in these  circumstances if Im satisfied that theres  been  a breach of 
contract by the resort.  Im not persuaded that the closure of the funicular railway 
because of structural safety concerns was a breach of the terms and conditions that 
Mr R had agreed with the resort when he bought  the passes  so I dont  consider  that 
theres been a breach of contract by the resort. 
Im not persuaded that Tesco Banks  response  to Mr Rs claim was unfair or 
unreasonable. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these  circumstances 
for me to require  Tesco  Bank to refund  to Mr R any of the money that he paid for the 
passes  or to take any other  action in response to his complaint.
So subject to any further representations by Mr R or Tesco Bank, my provisional  decision 
was that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint.
Mr R has responded to my provisional  decision and says that he bought the pass  for a 
season that runs from November 2018  to November 2019 and it can be used for skiing in 
winter and the train uplift in summer  but the train didnt run at all during the period that the 
pass was valid, no alternative was provided to him for his losses over the summer  months  so 
the pass isnt what  he paid for. He says that to reserve the right to shut for any reason is 
against the spirit of the sale and he believes  that its put in to protect the resort in the case  of 
a temporary closure  to one of the lifts and not an entire season outage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
As I said in that decision, I can understand Mr Rs frustration and disappointment that he and 
his son havent  been able to use the passes as hed intended and why he considers it to be 
against the spirit of the sale - but I can only uphold his complaint if Im satisfied that theres  
been a breach of contract by the resort.  
He had accepted the resorts terms and conditions and Im not persuaded that the closure of 
the funicular railway because of structural safety concerns was a breach of those terms and 
conditions - so I dont consider that theres been  a breach of contract by the resort. 
Im not persuaded that Tesco Banks  response  to Mr Rs claim was unfair or unreasonable 
and I find that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Ref: DRN41589153Tesco Bank to refund  to Mr R any of the money that he paid for the passes  or to take any 
other action  in response to his complaint.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4158915