K820x#14complaint
Miss U complains that The Mortgage Business  Plc is unfairly refusing to remove  her ex-
partner from their joint mortgage account.
background
Miss U took out a joint mortgage with her ex-partner (who  Ill refer to as Mr B). She says he 
left in 2005 and hasnt  contributed to the mortgage  since then. She says he signed away his 
rights in the property.
Miss U wants  to sell the property as she cant afford the mortgage:  she has significant 
arrears. Miss U says she cant sell the property until Mr Bs name  is removed from the 
mortgage. She says TMB  is aware that shes been  suffering  from severe ill health for some 
time.
TMB said it wont consider an application to remove Mr B from the mortgage account until 
its brought up to date and payments are maintained for 12 months.
Our investigator looked into Miss Us complaint. She said TMB had been sympathetic to 
Miss Us circumstances.  Our investigator said it wasnt reasonable to require TMB to remove 
Mr B from the mortgage. She said shed expect TMB to allow  a sale of the property, and 
there was no evidence it had prevented this in the past.
Miss U didnt agree. She said TMB should have removed Mr B from the mortgage  account 
years ago and not doing so prevented her selling the property. She says shes now unable to 
contact Mr B and cant provide the documents needed for a sale.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
I hope Miss U will understand, bearing in mind this decision will be published, why I havent 
set out her situation  in detail. I do appreciate how difficult things have been for her over 
many years.
Miss U says she cant afford the mortgage repayments. Shes struggled with mortgage  
repayments for years and has arrears of about £47,000, which  are increasing. Miss U wants  
to remove her ex-partner  from the mortgage  account, so that she can sell the property.
TMB says it wont  consider removing  Mr B from the mortgage account  while  its in arrears. It 
says it has to consider  whether the mortgage  is affordable for Miss U.
Rules of mortgage  regulation changed  in 2014. Since then, subject to meeting certain tests 
(which I think  is the case here), the rules  say if a proposed transaction  is in Miss Us best 
interests TMB doesnt need to do an affordability  assessment. TMB hasnt provided  
evidence it considered whether removing Mr B from the mortgage account would be in 
Miss Us best interests. But if it had, I dont think the outcome would have been different.
Ref: DRN44461652While the mortgage  account is in joint names, both account holders (Miss U and Mr B) are 
jointly and severally  liable  for the debt. Miss U says Mr B hasnt contributed  to the mortgage  
for many years. Nonetheless, while hes on the account TMB can ask him for payment.  
Removing Mr B from the mortgage  would mean  that Miss U is solely  responsible for it. This 
changes the risk for TMB and Miss U. 
It seems  unlikely  in the circumstances that Miss U can repay the mortgage except through 
the sale of the property.  She says she cant sell the property while Mr B is on the mortgage 
account. But Mr B being on the mortgage  account  doesnt itself prevent a sale of the 
property. And TMB  has said it wouldnt object to a sale (assuming  its not for less than the 
amount owed).  
Miss U would have to get in contact with Mr B to sell the property, as hes on the property 
title. This would still be the case if TMB agreed to remove him from the mortgage account.  I 
dont know whether Mr B would agree  to a property sale  or on what  terms. But, at the 
moment, hes jointly liable for a mortgage  with increasing amounts of arrears. It seems to me 
hes more likely to agree to a sale if hes liable  for the debt. Overall, I cant  see that its in 
Miss Us best interests for Mr B to be removed from the mortgage account. I dont think its 
reasonable to require  TMB to remove Mr B from the mortgage account.
Miss U says TMB refused to remove Mr B from the mortgage account in 2007  and, because 
her request  was declined,  she hasnt tried to sell the property since.  However,  this was 
previously considered by our service and I havent  seen  evidence of an agreed sale that 
TMB stopped from completing  since then. 
Miss U says Mr B signed transfer forms (TR1), but the Land  Registry wouldnt change the 
title without TMBs consent.  She says the TR1 isnt now acceptable to the Land Registry,  
due to the years that have passed since it was signed. Miss U was able to provide up to date 
contact details for Mr B in 2018.  I havent  seen anything to suggest  that TMB somehow 
stopped Miss U asking  Mr B to sign up to date forms while  she was able to contact him, to 
enable a sale of the property to complete.
Miss U says TMB moved the goal posts as to whether she has to maintain payments for 
6 or 12 months  after clearing her arrears. But as Miss U hasnt  been  able to clear her 
arrears, this change in TMBs approach hasnt affected her.
Miss U is making few repayments and she has significant and growing arrears. Guidance  by 
the regulator issued due to the Covid-19 pandemic means TMB  cant  start or recommence 
legal action until after the end of October  2020, unless Miss U asks it to take possession. 
However, Miss U should bear in mind  that the debt she owes is increasing. Miss U says she 
wants to sell the property,  and TMB says it wouldnt stand  in the way of this. In the 
circumstances, this seems the most likely route  for the mortgage  to be repaid. For the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont  think its reasonable, or in Miss Us best interests, to 
require TMB to remove Mr B from the mortgage  account. Id urge Miss U to keep TMB up to 
date with her efforts  to sell the property. And Id expect TMB to continue  to treat her fairly 
and reasonably as she takes the necessary steps  to do this.
Ref: DRN44461653my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 August 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4446165