K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mrs S and Mr C say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold  them  the 
PPI.
background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide acknowledged  receipt  of the decision and confirmed it had no further comments 
to add. Mrs S and Mr C told us they were unhappy  with the decision.  They  said they were  
pressured into taking  the policy and wanted to know if the person who actually sold them  the 
policy had been  spoken to. They said it appears  we are just taking Nationwides  word for 
what happened. They also said they just signed the forms that they were  given.
Ive thought about what Mrs S and Mr C have said and I appreciate why they are unhappy 
with the outcome of the complaint. But when considering  complaints  that are from many 
years ago it is necessary  to consider what  we think is more  likely to have happened.  
As mentioned in the provisional decision,  I cant know with any certainty what  they were  told 
in the meeting they had with Nationwide (and I think its unlikely that the advisor would 
remember this particular  sale from 15 years  ago either) but the documentation we do have 
makes it clear that Mrs S and Mr C had a choice about whether they took the policy and 
there is no evidence  that it was a condition of the lending. While Ive noted what  theyve said 
about signing the documents, Mrs S and Mr C were  taking out a mortgage which is a large 
financial commitment secured against  their home,  so I think they would have read through  
the documentation before  signing the forms to make  sure they agreed with everything  that 
had been entered. And, if they had been told the PPI was compulsory, when they saw that 
they did have  the option not to take out the PPI on the form, I think they would have raised 
this with Nationwide at the time.
As none of the comments received have altered my previous outcome, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont think the policy  was mis-sold and so it follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Ref: DRN42415222Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42415223Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mrs S and Mr C say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold  them  the 
PPI.
background
Mrs S and Mr C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2002. After an initial  12 month 
free period,  they paid a monthly amount for the policy.
They were  jointly insured under the policy for accident, sickness and unemployment. If 
either of them had made a successful claim,  the policy would  have paid out 50% of the 
repayment benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint as he felt Mrs S and Mr C hadnt been  given enough  
information in order to make an informed decision about whether they should take out the 
PPI. Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs S and Mr Cs case.
I dont intend to uphold this complaint. I appreciate that this will be a disappointment for
Mrs S and Mr C and Ill explain my reasons for reaching this outcome.
I think  Nationwide made it clear that Mrs S and Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out. I say this because  Ive been given a copy of the mortgage  
application from the time and I can see that there is a section for the PPI. In this section 
there are tick boxes to select  whether or not PPI is wanted. On their application I can see 
the yes box has been ticked  and both Mrs S and Mr C have signed to confirm  they agreed  
with the selection. If they didnt want to take out the PPI they could have ticked the no box.
Mrs S and Mr C have said they were  told they had a better  chance  of being accepted for 
the mortgage if they took out the PPI. I cant know with certainty  what Mrs S and Mr C were 
told when they were sold the PPI and I accept they may have felt pressured. But I havent 
found any other evidence to support that they were told by Nationwide  that the mortgage 
wouldnt be approved  without PPI. The application  form completed  allowed Mrs S and Mr C 
to say no to any form of PPI and reminded  them that if they did decline the insurance, they 
would be responsible for making the mortgage repayments if they were unable  to work. 
This isnt something I would expect to see if the PPI was a condition of the lending.  Its also 
worth noting  that Mrs S and Mr Cs mortgage offer doesnt set out PPI as a mandatory  
condition of this new borrowing.
Ref: DRN42415224Mrs S and Mr C think that Nationwide recommended the policy to them but they havent 
given much detail  as to why they think this. From my review I havent seen anything to 
suggest Nationwide took steps to assess Mrs S and Mr Cs circumstances  with the 
intention of recommending the policy to them. So I think  its more likely that Nationwide 
didnt recommend the policy to them. So this means  it didnt  have to check  if it was right for 
Mrs S and Mr C. But it did have to make sure they got the information they needed to 
decide for themselves if it was right for them  to take out.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint as he didnt think that Nationwide gave 
Mrs S and Mr C clear  enough information  about the policy costs  and benefits.  And, as a 
result, he didnt think that Mrs S would have taken  out the cover if these had been  made 
clear, due to the sick pay and other means which she had available  to her if she was unable 
to work. While I agree with the adjudicator that some of the information  Mrs S and Mr C 
were given about the PPI might not have been clear  enough, I dont agree that better  
information would have put Mrs S and Mr C off taking  out the PPI.
As Ive mentioned  previously, the mortgage  application form included  a section about PPI.
Next to the box thats been ticked to agree to take it out, it says:
Yes, I would like to protect my mortgage  payments against accident, sickness  and/or 
unemployment. Nationwide have provided  me with sufficient information to make  a 
decision on the type and level of cover I need.
So I think Mrs S and Mr C would have understood what  type of cover  was provided by the 
PPI  accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
Its not clear if Nationwide made  Mrs S and Mr C aware what  the costs or specific benefit 
they would  receive  if they made  a claim would be, when they signed  this section of the 
mortgage application form. But the PPI was free for 12 months  so its unlikely they would 
have been put off taking it out if this had been made  clear. And the mortgage offer they 
were sent before the PPI started,  confirmed what the premium would be after 12 months 
and referred to their policy being enclosed  which would have set out the benefit. So
Mrs S and Mr C did have  this information before the PPI started  and had time to change  their 
minds if this information put them  off.
Its possible the other information Nationwide gave Mrs S and Mr C wasnt as clear as it 
should have been  such as information about the exclusions to and limitations on the PPI 
cover. But Mrs S and Mr C werent  affected by any of these. So its unlikely better information 
about these would have caused them  to make  a different decision.
I appreciate Mrs S and Mr C had other  ways  of making their mortgage repayments if they 
couldnt work, but it was for them to decide whether the cover provided by the PPI was 
right. It seems that having thought about  the information Nationwide  gave them, they did 
see some  benefit in taking  out the PPI. And while that information  may not have  been  as 
clear as it should have  been, there  doesnt seem to be any missing or unclear information 
thats likely  to have stopped them going  ahead and taking  out the PPI.
Overall, I currently dont  think the PPI policy was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about whether Nationwide needs  to give Mrs S and Mr C some of the 
commission they paid back. The unfair relationship  provisions of the Consumer Credit  
Ref: DRN42415225Act (CCA) and rules  and guidance introduced by the Financial  Conduct  Authority only 
apply to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out 
before then which were  still running on 6 April 2008.  From the information Ive seen,  
Mrs S and Mr Cs credit agreement doesnt  fit into these  dates  as their mortgage  
finished in 2004 - and so I dont think Nationwide has to refund any of the commission  
they paid on the PPI policy.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont  think the policy was mis-sold  and so I dont intend to 
uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN4241522