K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold a Homebuyer Protection Plan by Bradford & Bingley  
Plc (B&B). In brief,  he says he was told he had to take the policy in order for the associated 
mortgage application to be successful, he wasnt made aware  that the level of cover would 
decrease and he had sufficient existing cover  through his employment.      
background
Mr S took out the policy alongside  a new mortgage  in 2004. It provided life and critical illness  
cover (CIC) to protect the £50,000 borrowing on a decreasing basis  over a 15 year term. In 
2017, having noted that the level of cover provided  by the policy  had decreased to around 
£10,000 Mr S complained  to B&B. 
B&B felt the recommendation of the policy  had been  suitable.  It noted that the terms of the 
policy matched those of the mortgage and it confirmed  that it had never made life cover or 
CIC a condition of lending. B&B explained that it was usual practice to recommend 
decreasing cover for a repayment mortgage like Mr S and that a recommendation of cover  
would still have been made  even  in light of Mr S employment benefits, because  they 
wouldnt necessarily have  remained in place throughout the term of the mortgage.
Mr S didnt agree and referred his complaint  to us. Our investigator also didnt think the 
complaint should  be upheld  and for broadly the same  reasons as B&B had given. She noted 
that Mr S had owned a number of other properties  at the time the policy was taken out, 
which hed said couldve been  sold in the event of his death or illness. But, in much  the same  
way that employment benefits  couldnt be guaranteed, the investigator  felt it couldnt be 
certain that Mr S circumstances and ownership  of the properties  wouldnt change over the 
course of the mortgage. And, as such, dedicated  cover for the specific new borrowing was 
generally speaking  a reasonable recommendation.   
Mr S didnt agree, reiterating that he felt hed been misinformed that the mortgage was 
conditional on the cover  being  taken. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
The recommendation made to Mr S in 2004 is what I would  generally  expect to see when a 
capital repayment  mortgage is sold. The cover matched the lending in terms of the amount 
and the length of the mortgage. It was also on a decreasing basis to provide  cover in line 
with the decreasing mortgage balance. 
I recognise that the cover having  decreased is one of Mr S major concerns, as he says he 
wasnt aware this would happen   rather,  he understood the policy  would provide level cover 
of £50,000 for the full term. But Ive seen  nothing that persuades me that B&B misled  him in 
any way about  this. And as an aside, its worth noting that if he had taken level cover it 
wouldve been more  expensive. So in the absence  of a claim, Mr S is actually better  off. 
Ref: DRN45363622In respect of whether Mr S was told that he had to take out the cover in order for his 
mortgage application to be successful, while Ive no reason to doubt his recollections,  I dont  
think I can fairly conclude that the adviser acted  incorrectly on the basis  of Mr S 
recollections alone. B&B has confirmed that life cover has never been mandatory  for its 
mortgages and while the adviser may well have been very positive about the benefits of the 
cover, Im not persuaded that he actively and deliberately misled  Mr S about  the cover  being 
needed.
Lastly, I note what Mr S has said about the other protection he had in place, either  through 
employee benefits or in relation to being able to realise funds from the sale of other 
properties he owned. And while  these  may have  been  useful to him and potential 
alternatives to the policy he took out, I nevertheless dont think  their existence made it wrong 
for B&B to recommended  specific cover for the new borrowing. 
Having dedicated,  guaranteed cover in place for significant new borrowing is  regardless of 
whatever else might  already be in place  generally  seen as prudent  financial planning, as 
the alternatives may not remain available for the full term of the mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4536362