K821x#15complaint
Miss J complains  that Uncle Buck Finance LLP, (UBF),  gave her loans that she couldnt 
afford to repay.
background
Miss J took out two loans with UBF and details  of these are shown below. Each of the loans 
was repayable by six monthly repayments.  Both the loans  have been repaid.
Loan number
Date Loan amount
Highest monthly 
repayment amount
1. 26/7/2018 £300 £98.65
2. 25/8/2018 £300 £98.65
Our adjudicator recommended  that Loans  1 and 2 should be upheld. He said that the 
information gathered  by UBF showed  that Miss J was having  problems managing  her money  
as she had three or more outstanding short term loans.  So UBF should have realised it was 
unlikely that Miss J wouldve been able to sustainably repay Loan 1 and any subsequent 
loans.
UBF disagreed. It said that Miss Js credit report showed no current short  term loans or any 
taken out in the previous  six months  and there were no outstanding short term loan 
balances. It said that the loan repayment  was 6.2% of Miss Js net monthly  income. It noted 
that Miss J had repaid Loan 1 early and that her disposable income of £875  showed there 
was significant  capacity to meet unexpected expenses or expenses  that Miss J may have 
inadvertently omitted to disclose. In addition UBF said that there  was no information to 
suggest that it needed to probe further. The lender also said that if repayments  appear 
affordable on a pounds and pence basis, this might  be an indication  that a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  A further indication  might be the repayments  being 
made in full and on time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When UBF lent to Miss J the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The CONC 
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
UBF needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss J could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and Miss J s 
income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that UBF should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss J. These factors include:
Ref: DRN44063052the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that UBF was required to establish 
whether Miss J could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the customer should  be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting 
other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Js complaint.
UBF made a number of checks before it lent to Miss J. It asked  her for details of her income  
and expenditure.  Miss J declared her monthly income as £1,600 before both the loans. Her 
declared expenditure was £725. 
I also note that UBF checked  Miss Js credit file before agreeing to the loans and it has 
provided this service with copies of its checks before the loans. I shall refer below to matters 
shown in UBFs credit checks.
Miss J hasnt  provided us with a copy of her credit report. So I cant  say there  were  any 
entries on the credit report which might  have caused the lender concern. But Im aware that 
when a lender  carries out a credit search,  the information it sees  doesnt usually provide the 
same level of detail that a consumers credit search will and it isnt necessarily up to date. A 
lender might  only see a small portion of a borrowers  credit  file, or some  data might  be 
missing or anonymised.  Im also aware that not all payday and short  term lenders  report  to 
the same  credit reference agencies. So, this may explain any differences between  the 
information provided by UBFs credit  check and Miss Js actual situation.
Loan 1 was for £300 and repayable by six monthly repayments with a highest repayment  
amount of £98.65. These might have appeared relatively modest  compared  to the income  
that Miss J declared to UBF. But Ive also seen UBFs  credit  checks  before Loan  1. These 
Ref: DRN44063053show that Miss J had 18 active accounts, with 40 accounts opened in the last six months.  
Although there were  no defaults or delinquent  accounts, I think the high number of recent 
accounts might have caused  UBF some concerns. I can see on the checks that there  were  
around six active unsecured loan accounts  with repayments to be made over six to twelve 
months. I think  the large number of these outstanding loans shown on Miss Js credit check 
should have been sufficient to demonstrate  that Miss J was having problems managing her 
money. So, I think it might have been proportionate  at that time for UBF to have gathered 
some further  information from Miss J about  her other short term loans. I note that the 
expenditure details UBF requested from Miss J referred to mortgage  payments, fixed  loans, 
and credit and store  cards.  But there appeared to be no specific request for short  term loan 
expenditure. 
I would normally look at the borrowers bank  statements and credit report to see what  
proportionate checks would likely have shown. I cant see that we have received these.  But I 
can see from other complaints with this service that Miss J had four outstanding short term 
loans with another lender.  So she was already  committed to repaying those loans around the 
same time as shed  be repaying Loan 1. I think that the extent of Miss Js other short  term 
borrowing should have  put UBF on notice that she was having serious problems managing  
her money. So I dont think that UBF should have given Loan 1 to Miss J.
It appears that Miss J then took out Loan  2 on the day after she repaid Loan 1. I think  this 
might have suggested to UBF that repaying  the loan caused Miss J to need  to borrow  again 
which wasnt a sustainable situation.  The loan amount was again  £300 repayable by six 
monthly repayments with a highest repayment of £98.65. Ive seen  UBFs credit  checks  
before Loan 2. I note the more detailed part of the checks were  the checks carried out before 
Loan 1, around  a month earlier. For the same reasons as stated above, I think  that those 
checks might have  prompted UBF to probe further. Again I can see from other complaints 
with this service that Miss J still had four outstanding short term loans with another  lender  at 
the time of Loan 2. So she was already committed to repaying  those  loans around  the same  
time as shed be repaying Loan  2. I think that the extent of Miss Js other short  term 
borrowing should have  put UBF on notice that she was still having serious problems 
managing her money. So I dont think that UBF should have  given Loan  2 to Miss J.
I should add Ive considered some of the main points UBF made  in response to the 
adjudicators view. 
UBF said that it considered if the repayments were  affordable on a pounds and pence basis 
and that repayments being made  in full and on time were  an indication that Miss J could 
sustainably make her repayments.  I also note that UBF said that the loan repayments  were 
6.2% of Miss Js net income.  But I think UBF will (or ought to) know from previous decisions 
(as well as whats set out on our website) that there  are cases  where this service  considers 
the overall lending pattern and not just the affordability of each loan. And there  will be times 
when the pattern of lending alone is enough  to indicate that a consumer is likely to be in 
financial difficulty  or would otherwise be harmed should relending  continue. So it follows 
that successful repayment of a loan doesnt  automatically mean  it was repaid sustainably.
I note that UBF has referred to a confirmation given  by Miss J that she had read the pre-
contractual documentation. But even  if the provision of a confirmation on this and other  
matters had formed part of the loan application process, it doesnt absolve UBF of its 
obligation to assess  the risk to Miss J and make  a fair decision. 
Ref: DRN44063054UBF also said that there was no information  on its credit checks to suggest  that it needed to 
probe further. But it will note from what Ive said above that I disagree  with this. 
So Im upholding  this complaint and UBF should put things  right as follows.
putting things right  what UBF needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss J paid on Loans 1 and 2;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Js credit file with regard to 
Loans 1 and 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give 
Miss J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if she asks for one. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint I order 
Uncle Buck  Finance LLP, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Miss J paid on Loans 1 and 2;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*; and
3.Remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss Js credit  file with regard to 
Loans 1 and 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give 
Miss J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if she asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4406305