K822xcomplaint
Mr L has complained  about  what HFC Bank  Limited did to put things right following his 
complaint about  the sale of PPI.
background 
Mr L initially referred this complaint to us after HFC said it didnt have any information 
showing hed paid for PPI alongside three  accounts:
A loan that started in 1986
A second loan that started in 1987
A third account, called current account plus, that started in May 1989.
Our adjudicator looked at this and thought  that, based on what  wed seen, Mr L most likely 
had PPI alongside these accounts. In reply, HFC said it would make an offer to settle Mr Ls 
complaints that these  PPI policies were mis-sold.
HFC then worked out what  it needed  to pay Mr L to put things right. But Mr L didnt think  
HFC had worked this out correctly. He thought that all three  accounts  were open at the same  
time; HFC had assumed they each ran one after the other  so each  policy ended when the 
next one began. This means Mr L thought  he should  get more  compensation. Finally, he 
didnt think that HFC should have deducted income  tax from the interest  it awarded.  
Another adjudicator  looked at this and thought that what  HFC had done  was fair. Mr L didnt 
agree. The complaint was then referred  to me.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 July 2020. I said that Id considered  
all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. HFC had agreed  that Mr Ls complaints about  the three 
policies should  be upheld. I needed to decide  whether what  HFC had offered was fair.
The first policy
I thought the assumptions HFC had made to work out compensation for the first loan were 
fair. Mr L had sent us a proposal form showing the policy started in February 1986. And Mr L 
had separately sent us information showing he applied for a homeowner loan around  then.  
The insurance proposal form confirmed that the policy cost £3.63  a month.
I thought about  when  this policy  ended  and felt it was likely this policy  ended  when  the 
second PPI policy started. I said this based on what I knew about HFCs sales  processes 
generally, and because the costs  and benefits of the two policies appeared to have been  the 
same. I was also mindful that the second policy was backdated to December, the month  
before Mr L took out the second policy. This suggested the possibility that this second policy 
was arranged to replace  the first one after it was cancelled. For these reasons, I thought it 
was reasonable  for HFC to assume  that the first loan and PPI policy  ended  in December 
1986.
The second  policy
Mr L had sent us the proposal form for the second policy. This policy  also cost £3.63 a 
month. But I wasnt satisfied that this policy  ended when  the third policy  began. The third 
Ref: DRN42840162policy was attached to a product called  current account plus, which I understood to be a 
form of cheque account which included an overdraft facility. The second  policy  was attached 
to a secured loan.  It didnt seem likely that Mr L would replace a secured loan with an 
overdraft facility.
So I thought  about when  Mr L said the policy ended. He said he sold his property in 1990.  
The loan was secured on his property.  I didnt see any reason to doubt what Mr L had said.  I 
thought that it was most likely that this loan and PPI policy ended at that time. I therefore  
thought HFC should recalculate its offer.
The third policy
The final policy  was sold alongside  a current account plus  account. The premium  for the 
PPI was charged based on the outstanding balance on the account   0.25% of the 
outstanding debit balance in respect  of accident and unemployment cover,  and 0.1% of the 
balance in respect of life cover. Because  of the time that had passed, HFC didnt know how 
Mr L used the account  or how much hed paid for the PPI. But it says it knows  that Mr L had 
another account that opened in March 1991 - and it thought the opening balance on that 
account was carried forward  from the current account plus. It said that it would use this 
balance to work out what Mr L paid for the PPI. I concluded that in the absence of better  
information showing how Mr L used  this account,  this was likely to be a fair way to assume 
what Mr L paid towards  this account.  But I noted  that HFC had said it had used a cost of 
0.25% when working out the cost of the PPI. I said that unless HFC had reasons to think  that 
Mr L would  have opted for a different level of cover, it should refund the full cost of the PPI, 
or 0.35%.
tax
Although Mr L was unhappy that HFC proposed to deduct  tax from the interest  it awarded,  I 
said HM Revenue & Customs required HFC to deduct tax from this interest.
response
HFC has agreed with my provisional findings.  It says it will recalculate  its offer along the 
following lines:
For the first loan, it will assume that the associated policy  began  in February 1986 
and ended in December 1986, after 10 months.  This is the same  as the offer it has 
actually made.
For the second loan, it will assume  the policy began in December 1986  and ended  in 
March 1990, after 39 months This means  Mr L gets more.
For the third loan, HFC now says it in fact used a rate of 0.35% when it carried out its 
original calculation It has worked  this out based on a credit limit of £200.  It has 
assumed the account opened in May 1989  and ended in March  1991. It says this will 
be the same as the offer it has already  made.
Finally, it will add simple  interest from the date it assumes Mr L made each of these 
payments until the date he gets it back.
Mr L has replied to say hes received my provisional findings. He says the calculations I 
outlined in my provisional decision seem  accurate.  He says, though, that hes unhappy as he 
feels that HFC hasnt been honest.  
Ref: DRN42840163As Ive now received a response from both Mr L and HFC, Ive looked at the complaint 
again.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HFC has accepted my provisional findings.  Mr L says that the method of working  out 
compensation Ive outlined  above appeared accurate. I therefore reach the same 
conclusions for the same  reasons.
HFC has confirmed that the assumptions I asked it to use were the same as the ones it used 
to worked out compensation for the first and third loans.  But Mr L will get slightly  more  in 
respect of the second loan, as it will now assume  the policy continued  until March 1990.
Ive considered Mr Ls further  comments about  HFC. I recognise  that Mr L feels strongly  that 
HFC werent honest with him. But given how long ago these policies started, I dont think  it 
was unreasonable that HFC couldnt,  now, say exactly what had happened. And while  its 
taken longer to sort things out, this is taken into account by the interest Im awarding 
because Mr L has been out of pocket.
putting things right
HFC should  put Mr L in the position hed be in if he hadnt bought  the PPI.
It needs to:
1)Refund what Mr L paid towards  the first policy from February 1986 until the first 
policy ended in December 1986
2)Refund what Mr L paid towards  the second  policy from December 1986 until March 
1990
3)Refund what Mr L paid towards  the third policy from May 1989 until March 1991.
HFC should  add interest  at a simple  rate of 8% a year from April 1993 and 15% before 
then  to compensate Mr L for the time hes been out of pocket. It should calculate  interest  
from the date Mr L made each payment  until the date it gets this back. HM Revenue & 
Customs requires HFC to deduct  tax from this interest. HFC Bank should send Mr L a 
certificate showing how it worked this out should  he want  one.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint about the sale of PPI. HFC Bank  Limited 
should now pay Mr L if it hasnt already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 October  2020.
Edward Hardman
Ref: DRN42840164ombudsman
Ref: DRN4284016