K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc mis-sold her a with-profit  investment 
bond. Mrs Rs complaint has been brought  by a representative. In summary, the complaint 
points are that:
Mrs R wasnt  prepared to take excessive risk and wanted  growth  from her investment
She wasnt given sufficient time to consider the advice prior to investing, and 
As someone whod  been recently  widowed, NatWest didnt take account  of her 
vulnerability.
background
I set out the background  to the complaint in my provisional decision of February 2019. An 
excerpt from that decision is attached to and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I felt the complaint should be upheld. In summary,  
I said I didnt think the advice to invest in the bond was wholly wrong,  based  on Mrs Rs 
overall circumstances  and the amount  of risk she was recorded  as willing to take. But I 
thought the recommendation was unsuitable  because NatWest had advised Mrs R to put all 
of her money in one product.  This meant that her investment was not sufficiently diversified, 
exposing her to greater risk.  
Mrs R, though her representative,  confirmed that she had nothing  further to add. 
NatWest responded  with further submissions. In summary, NatWest said:
as a tied agent, the advisor had a limited number of investments that could be 
recommended
other products  available wouldve  exposed  Mrs R to similar  levels of market  risk 
whilst limiting investment in the less volatile with-profit fund, and 
other ombudsman decisions,  where a higher percentage  of capital had been invested 
in the same product, had previously found  in the banks  favour.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments  including  NatWests latest 
comments - to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I remain of the same mind as set out in my provisional  decision and uphold 
Mrs Rs complaint.
I do acknowledge NatWests latest  comments.  As I indicated in my provisional decision,  this 
is a finely balanced  case. But overall,  when looking at the sum of money available for 
investment, I think it is reasonable to expect to see some consideration of limiting  
concentration of risk in the recommendation.  I accept that the advisor  was limited in the 
range of products available. But there were alternatives, as NatWest  has pointed  out. I dont 
accept that there would have been  no benefit to placing  funds  in different products with a 
similar risk rating. Products with a similar  risk rating can both operate  and perform differently. 
And they may well be investing in different baskets of assets. So spreading  the investment in 
this way wouldve  built in an additional layer of diversification. 
Ref: DRN47680392Ive also looked  at the previous decisions referred to by NatWest. Of course, every complaint 
is considered individually, on its own merits. But I will make  one or two observations.  
Interestingly, one of the decisions specifically comments on the principal of diversification,  
saying that the argument  that diversification  was built into the with-profit  bond  was not wholly  
persuasive. And as well as the percentage of capital invested, the actual amount of money 
available is relevant. Mrs R had a reasonably large  sum of money available  to invest,  more  
than appeared  to be the case in the other  quoted decisions. So I remain of the view that the 
recommendation was unsuitable and I therefore  uphold this complaint.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
R as close to the position she would  probably now be in if she had not been  given unsuitable  
advice.
I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mrs R to have invested half of the £56,000   £28,000 
 in the Portfolio Bond.  But I think if shed been  more suitably advised shed have invested 
the remaining  £28,000 differently.  It is not possible to say precisely what she would have 
done with this, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mrs R's circumstances  and objectives when she invested. 
what should  NatWest do? 
To compensate Mrs R fairly, NatWest must:
Compare the performance of 50% of Mrs R's investment with that of the benchmark  
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investment.  If the actual value is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
NatWest  should  also pay interest  as set out below. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
Norwich 
Union 
Portfolio 
Bond
(50% of 
amount 
invested) 
surrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average date of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Ref: DRN47680393rate from 
fixed rate 
bonds
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  NatWest 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mrs R wanted capital  growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
I consider that Mrs R's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mrs R into that position.  It does not mean  that Mrs 
R would  have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind 
of index tracker  fund. Rather, I consider  this a reasonable compromise that broadly  
reflects the sort of return Mrs R could have obtained  from investments suited  to her 
objective and risk attitude. 
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date. 
Ref: DRN47680394my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require National Westminster Bank Plc to 
calculate redress in line with the explanation above and pay any compensation due to Mrs R 
accordingly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN47680395Excerpt from Provisional  Decision
Ive considered the relevant information about  Mrs Rs complaint. Based on what  Ive seen 
so far Im considering reaching a different outcome to the investigator.  
Ill look at any more  comments  and evidence that I get by 22 March 2019.  But unless the 
information changes  my mind, my final decision is likely to be along  the following lines.  Final 
decisions will be published on our website. So that Mrs R cant be identified Ill call her Mrs 
R.
complaint
Mrs R complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc mis-sold her a with-profit  investment 
bond. Mrs Rs complaint has been brought  by a representative. In summary, the complaint 
points are that:
Mrs R wasnt  prepared to take excessive risk and wanted  growth  from her investment
She wasnt given sufficient time to consider the advice prior to investing, and 
As someone whod  been recently  widowed, NatWest didnt take account  of her 
vulnerability.
background
Mrs R met with an advisor from NatWest in July 2008. A fact find was completed and a 
recommendation made. At the same meeting, Mrs R agreed to invest £56,000  in a with-profit  
bond.
Mrs R maintained the bond for just over five years, surrendering it at a value of nearly  
£66,000 in August 2013. 
In late 2017, Mrs Rs representative complained to NatWest about the suitability of the 
advice shed received. NatWest responded, saying the advice was suitable and it didnt think  
it had done anything wrong.  
The representative disagreed, so brought Mrs Rs complaint  to our service. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the with-profit  bond recommended  by 
the advisor was considered suitable  for cautious investors who only wanted to take a low 
level of risk with their money. It therefore  met Mrs Rs attitude to risk, as well as her 
investment objective  for growth beyond that available in an interest-bearing account. The 
investigator also commented that Mrs R was prepared to invest for at least five years  and 
had retained a sizeable amount of cash on deposit, to use in the event of an emergency.
Mrs Rs representative didnt agree and asked  for the matter to be looked  at by an 
ombudsman. In summary, the representative  said:
The product  lacked diversification, so exposed Mrs R to greater  risk, and
Due to her recent bereavement,  Mrs R was vulnerable and not in a position to make  
a clear judgement  in one investment meeting.
Ref: DRN47680396my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im presently intending to 
uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
The fact find identified that Mrs R was retired, owned her home  outright and had a net 
disposable monthly income of £556. Aside from her home, she held assets totalling 
£120,000. £32,000 of this money had been  held in a stocks  and shares ISA since  2004, 
leaving a cash balance  of £88,000 - money inherited from her husband,  as is recorded in the 
advice documentation.
NatWest identified Mrs R as a cautious,  low-risk investor, assessing her as category 2 on a 
scale of 1-5, where  1 was essentially risk-averse and 5 adventurous. The advisor 
recommended investment  in a with-profit Norwich Union Portfolio Bond. NatWests  advisor  
was restricted in terms of the range of products he could recommend. But the documentation 
suggests that this was made clear to Mrs R during the meeting. 
Ill deal first with the complaint points relating to Mrs Rs recent widowhood  and the speed of 
meeting and decision to invest. 
Mrs Rs funds were  held with another business prior to the advice meeting. Ive not seen any 
evidence to indicate that Mrs R was specifically  targeted by NatWest  for sales  purposes.  
Indeed, NatWest has indicated that Mrs R approached  the bank looking for advice. So on 
balance, I think this was a meeting that Mrs R wanted and a decision that she was in the 
market for making. And theres  nothing to stop a customer receiving advice and deciding to 
act upon that advice  in the same  meeting.  
I appreciate that Mrs R had been widowed some six months prior to the advice meeting. But 
other than her representatives  assertion,  Ive not seen any evidence  to indicate that, beyond 
the obvious distress  of her recent bereavement,  Mrs R was particularly vulnerable. So I dont  
think NatWest was required  to take any additional  steps in respect of Mrs R, over and above 
its general duty to treat customers  fairly. Nor do I think  it would be fair to conclude that being 
retired and recently widowed automatically  rendered Mrs R incapable of making  a financial 
decision.  
Ill look now more generally  at the suitability  of the advice. In some respects, I think  the 
advice given to Mrs R was suitable.  For example, with-profit investments are typically  
considered appropriate for more cautious investors. And of the money  available  for 
investment, Mrs R retained £32,000  on deposit.  This money  was easily  accessible and well 
in excess of the amount shed identified as necessary for emergencies. 
So I dont  think the advice to invest in the bond itself was wholly  wrong, based on Mrs Rs 
overall circumstances  and the amount  of risk she was recorded  as willing to take. But I am 
concerned that insufficient attention was given to the diversity of the recommendation. 
Ref: DRN47680397All of Mrs Rs investment  was placed in a single fund. I accept that this was a with-profit  fund 
that invested across  a range of assets and was subject to smoothing  - a process  whereby  
bonuses are evened  out over the years, to minimise the impact of market  fluctuations.  And 
Im aware that Mrs R held money  elsewhere  in a stocks and shares  ISA, offering some 
overall investment  diversification. But I still think that the concentration of risk in NatWests 
recommendation appears to have ignored  the benefits of spreading the investment across  
several funds, which wouldve built in greater diversity and capacity to manage  investment 
risks. And with an investment of £56,000,  there  was ample cash  available  to tailor the 
recommendation to include  this level of diversification. Theres  no evidence that any other  
products were discussed, other than a different variant of the with-profit  fund.
In summary,  Im of the view that the lack of diversification in the recommendation made it 
unsuitable for Mrs Rs overall  objectives.  I think its likely that had she been  aware  of the 
potential consequences  of putting  all her eggs  in one basket, she wouldve sought  to invest 
differently.
So unless any new information changes  my mind, Im presently intending to uphold  this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN4768039