K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Metro Bank PLC has recorded a marker with a fraud prevention  
agency (FPA) after she lost her debit  card and one of her accounts  was used by a fraudster. 
The bank has closed  her accounts. Miss D wants  the marker  removed as she may have 
problems getting  credit and other financial products.
Shes helped  in her complaint by her mother.  But for ease Ill refer to everything as if its 
been said by Miss D.
background
The details of whats said to have happened  here are well known  to Miss D and Metro Bank. 
So I wont  repeat  that at length and hope  both parties will accept the following as a brief 
summary:
Miss D got a letter  saying  Metro  Bank  was closing her accounts  with seven days  notice;
About eight  months later she went into a Metro  Bank store to find out what  was going  on;
Metro Bank confirmed  itd closed Miss Ds accounts because fraudulent money  had been  
paid into one of them  and some of it had been withdrawn  using her debit card, PIN and 
online banking;
The bank also said itd recorded the misuse  of Miss Ds account with a FPA; and
Miss D didnt think  this was fair  shed been the victim of fraud as she hadnt allowed 
anybody else to use her account, debit card, PIN or online banking.
As Metro Bank wouldnt do anything  about  the fraudulent use of her account or remove  the 
marker recorded with the FPA she got in touch with us. One of our investigators  looked into 
things for her. But he thought the bank had got things right. There was quite a bit of evidence 
to suggest Miss D was either directly involved in what had happened or knew  her account 
was being used by somebody else.
Metro Banks records showed that the payments made out of Miss Ds account were  only 
possible because of fraudulent funds being  paid in. The payments out were  made  using her 
online banking. Miss D hadnt offered any explanation as to how somebody else would have 
known her online banking  security information.
A new payee had been set up and Miss D had been sent a code to her mobile  phone  to 
confirm this was what  she wanted  to happen.  While Miss D says she didnt carry out any of 
this activity or get the code referred to, a Metro Bank  employee says they saw the code on 
Miss Ds mobile phone when she visited the store.
There was also a withdrawal from a cash machine. Miss D wasnt  able to provide any 
explanation as to how somebody  else might have been able to get her debit card and PIN in 
order to make this withdrawal.
The banks records showed that Miss D would  have seen the fraudulent activity from her 
access to her account (online or using the mobile banking app). But she hadnt queried  this 
until some  eight months after the event and the closure of her account.
Ref: DRN46734692So, on balance, our investigator thought it most  likely Miss D had been aware of what  was 
happening. In coming to this conclusion hed thought about the requirements of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2009 (the PSRs),  which set out when a financial business  can hold a 
customer responsible  for money taken out of their account.
The investigator was satisfied Metro Bank could hold Miss D responsible  for the various 
payments and cash withdrawal. And, because of this, he thought  it was right for the bank to 
record the misuse of her account with the FPA.
Miss D didnt agree with the investigators view. So her complaint has been passed  to an 
ombudsman to review  and issue a final decision on.
She didnt  offer any further evidence to explain how the payments  and withdrawal had been 
made but felt the bank should  have done more  to protect her because of her age and 
understanding of how to use her bank account(s).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Miss D feels very strongly about  whats happened here. Thats clear from what she 
(and in particular her mother) has said to both us and Metro  Bank.  And thats not surprising. 
Having your account closed and a marker recorded with a FPA arent nice things. And the 
marker will impact  on Miss Ds ability to get all sorts of financial products for six years  from 
when it was recorded. So shes bound to be concerned.
But Im afraid I have to tell Miss D that I agree  with the investigator. I think Metro  Bank  has 
got this right.  There is quite a lot of evidence to support the view that Miss D carried out the 
payments and cash withdrawal herself  or knew somebody else was using her account.  
And that means  the bank  was right to close her account and record the marker with the FPA.
Indeed, theres  very little I can add to what the investigators already said to Miss D. I think  
he set out the position very thoroughly and clearly.
That said,  its important I reassure Miss D that Ive reviewed  her complaint afresh. So Ill 
cover the main points  that lead me to reach the same conclusion  as the investigator.
setting up of a new payee and new (linked) savings accounts
Ive looked at Metro Banks records. And they show the new payee was set up using 
Miss Ds online banking  and a code sent to her mobile phone.  While I havent  seen her 
phone, I note the statement made by the Metro Bank employee that they saw the code on 
Miss Ds phone when  she visited a store.
At the same time three  new (linked) savings accounts were  opened.  While  Miss D has said 
she didnt carry out any of this activity she hasnt  been able to give any explanation as to 
how somebody else would have been  able to get access to her online banking security 
information (or her mobile phone). This doesnt help her credibility.
Ref: DRN46734693Im aware Miss D says its possible  somebody used her mobile banking app to carry out the 
activity as the security  information needed for accessing the app is the same as that she 
uses for (at least) one social media  platform. But this isnt how it was carried  out. It was done 
using her online banking.
Opening new (linked) savings accounts  is unusual. But it suggests Miss D may have thought  
she was going  to benefit in some way from what was going to happen  with money later 
being transferred  to the savings accounts.
All of this activity happened a few days before the fraudulent funds were paid into 
Miss Ds (main)  account. This indicates  the actions were planned and arranged  in such a 
way as to make the quick transfer of the (fraudulent) funds out of her account.
the cash withdrawal
Miss D has offered no explanation for how somebody else would  have been  able to get her 
debit card and PIN in order to make the cash withdrawal. She hasnt been able to provide 
any information about the whereabouts of her card at this time.  But  in any event  this 
doesnt explain how somebody else would have got to know  her PIN. Again,  this doesnt 
help her credibility.
delay in contacting Metro  Bank
In some respects, this is the most troubling aspect of this case. Miss D hasnt been able to 
give any explanation  as to why she didnt  contact Metro Bank for about eight months. The 
banks records indicate shed have seen what activity had happened on her (main) account. 
And shed  had a letter  to say Metro Bank was closing her account(s). But she doesnt seem 
to have thought it necessary to contact  the bank to find out why it was closing her account.  
One possible reason  for this is that Miss D had carried  out the payments and cash 
withdrawal herself  so she had no reason  to query  the activity. Or she may have placed 
trust in somebody (in using her account  with her consent)  for her only then to realise that 
trust had been abused.
threshold for recording a marker with a FPA
The requirements for a bank to be able to record something about somebody  with a FPA are 
high. Its right that the threshold is high. But Im satisfied there is enough evidence  here to 
show Metro Bank has met those  requirements.
should Metro Bank  have  done any more to help Miss D?
I note the suggestion from Miss D that Metro Bank should do more to protect  people  of her 
age  or at least help them understand  the implications of their actions.
Theres always a fine balance between providing younger people  with access  to financial 
products and them being vulnerable to being taken advantage of. But, generally speaking,  
the first person who should know whats happening with their account  is the account  holder 
themselves. And that seems to be the case here  Metro Banks records indicate Miss D did 
see what was happening.
Ref: DRN46734694summary
When I combine the unlikely nature  of how somebody unknown  to Miss D might have been 
able to:
access her online banking and have a code  sent to Miss Ds mobile  phone; and
get her debit  card and PIN to make the withdrawal from the cash machine,
I think it is most likely  Miss D carried out the payments and cash  withdrawal. I realise thats  a 
difficult message to give. But, without any credible explanation  from Miss D, its where the 
available evidence leads  me.
And, like the investigator, in reaching  this conclusion Ive considered  the requirements of the 
PSRs and the guidance from the Financial Conduct  Authority.
I accept its possible Miss D might be a victim here  in the sense that she was promised 
some reward  for taking the actions she did and the trust she placed in somebody may have 
been unwise.  She may not have  fully understood the consequences of what  might take 
place. And its quite common for fraudsters to take advantage of young people like Miss D. 
But that doesnt mean Metro Bank  was wrong  to take the actions it did. Its important  banks 
and other  financial  businesses are aware of the risk they may be taking in offering 
Miss D any products. Thats why records are kept by FPAs, which financial businesses can 
access.
I realise Miss D will be disappointed by my decision.  But it brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve her dispute with Metro Bank informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant  help 
Miss D any further on this matter.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D (or her 
mother) to accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4673469