K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a credit  card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr O took out the PPI in 2002 at the same  time as he arranged  the credit  card in branch.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr O disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Os complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr O says the PPI was automatically  added to the credit  card account and that he wasnt 
told it was optional. The credit card application  form has a separate  section for insurance. 
There is a pre-printed cross  in the box to request PPI. From what  we know of BoSs sales  
processes at the time,  I think there would have been  a discussion about PPI and that the 
cross would only have been entered  in the box if Mr O said that he wanted the policy.  The 
relevant section of the application form also has the option to select  another  insurance 
product, but the box next to that has been  left blank to decline it. If, as Mr O has said, the 
adviser automatically added the PPI to his account,  I might  have expected  him to end up 
with all of the available insurance  options.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr Os recollection of 
events has faded.  Ive thought very carefully  about what Mr O has said, but looking at the 
evidence, I think it is more  likely that the optional nature  of the policy was explained. It 
seems to me that Mr O probably decided to buy it, knowing  that he didnt have to, even if he 
no longer remembers  doing so.
BoS advised Mr O to buy the policy.  Therefore  in recommending  the PPI to Mr O it needed 
to ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Os circumstances at the time, it 
was suitable for him.
Mr Os employer would have given  him six months full pay, followed by six months  half pay 
if he was unable to work  due to accident  or sickness. Mr O says that therefore the chance 
that he would ever have  needed to claim were extremely limited.  But having sick pay 
wouldnt have prevented him from claiming  on the policy - it would have paid out in addition 
to this, and potentially for longer than Mr O would  have  received full pay for. And Mr O didn't 
have any other means, such  as savings, to fall back on. So I think the policy could have 
provided Mr O with a useful benefit  at what would have been  a difficult  time.
Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much  information as it should have about the policy,  
particularly about  the things it didnt  cover. But Mr O wasnt affected by any of those things. 
As I think  that Mr O had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think  that further 
Ref: DRN48447252information would have caused  him to change his mind. So Mr O isnt any worse off as a 
result of anything BoS may have done wrong, so theres nothing that BoS needs to do to put 
things right. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019. 
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4844725