K820x#14complaint
Mr E is complaining about HSBC Bank  Plc because he says he was mis-sold a life and 
critical illness insurance policy he didnt  need. He borrowed  money for his business and says 
he was told the cover was a condition of the loan being granted.
background
In 2004, Mr E borrowed additional  money for his business. He arranged  a loan of £108,000 
over a term of 12 years  on a repayment basis. He already had a level term life and critical 
illness insurance policy providing cover of £92,000 with 10 years to run. Following advice 
from HSBC, he took out a further  level term life and critical illness insurance policy providing  
cover of £16,000 for a term of 12 years. Mr E continued paying into the policy  until it ended 
in 2016.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He didnt think there was 
enough evidence  to show Mr E was misled  about the need to take the second policy  and he 
felt it was a reasonable recommendation.
Mr E didnt accept the adjudicators assessment. He maintains he was told he had to take 
policy and that he didnt need it because  he had cover already. He asked for his complaint to 
be reviewed.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators conclusions for much the same  reasons.
HSBC has said its possible it was a condition of the loan that Mr E have cover for the full 
amount he was borrowing. And this is something  it would have been entitled  to require and 
was fairly  common practice around that time,  particularly for business borrowing. If cover  
was a requirement and Mr E wasnt happy  to proceed on that basis, he could have tried to 
borrow from another lender. Unfortunately HSBC no longer has the documentation needed 
to demonstrate whether cover was a requirement  of the loan and I think I have to assume it 
wasnt for the purposes of this decision.
Ive taken account of what  Mr E says he was told. But on their own and without additional 
supporting evidence, I dont think his comments are enough for me to say he was misled  
about the need to take additional cover or that it had to be with HSBC rather than another 
insurer.
This notwithstanding, Mr E received advice and the adviser had a responsibility to make sure 
any recommendation was suitable for his circumstances and needs.
Mr Es business loan was a significant financial commitment and I think it would be difficult to 
say that he wouldnt  have benefitted  from a lump sum sufficient to repay the debt if hed 
become seriously  ill before the end of the term. Or that those he left behind wouldnt have 
benefitted from the same amount if hed died.  Mr E did have some cover  already, but this 
didnt cover the full amount he was borrowing. By recommending a policy  covering him for 
the difference between the loan and the amount his existing policy provided, Im satisfied the 
adviser took full account of the arrangements  hed already made.
Ref: DRN46262422There were some potential issues with the advice. In particular, its questionable  whether Mr 
E needed level cover when his loan was due to decrease with his regular  repayments.  By 
partly relying on his existing policy, which only had 10 years to run, it was also likely he 
wouldnt have cover for the full outstanding loan for the last two years  after it ended. 
These issues could have been  solved  if the adviser  had recommended  replacing Mr Es 
original policy with a new 12-year policy with decreasing cover starting at £108,000.  But 
HSBC has confirmed the monthly premium for a policy on those terms would have been 
higher than the total amount Mr E paid for the two policies he had. So on balance, I think  the 
arrangements he was left with represented suitable  advice. Fortunately, he didnt need to 
claim before the policies  expired so any shortfall  in cover during the last two years of the 
loan wasnt an issue.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr E and I understand why he 
may question the need for his policy. But I dont think theres  enough evidence  to show it 
was mis-sold in the way hes described and Im satisfied it was suitable advice based on his 
circumstances at the time. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4626242