K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
I issued my provisional decision on 4 March  2021,  a copy extract  of which is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing not to uphold Mr Bs complaint in 
regards to the mis-sale  element  of the complaint. But I considered Barclayss offer of 
payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in excess  of 50% 
of the policy  cost a fair way to resolve the non-disclosure  of the commission  element of the 
complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. Neither Barclays or Mr B have given any further information.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I do 
not uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint and I consider the offer of the payment of 
the amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in excess  of 50% of the policy 
cost a fair way to resolve  the commission element of the complaint.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does have to pay back  to Mr B any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my 
decision before  25 April 2021.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
copy extract of provisional  decision
background and summary  to complaint
Mr B bought the policy in 2007 at the same time as taking out a loan. He applied for the loan and PPI 
policy over the phone. 
The policys  one-off upfront premium of £736.15 was paid in advance  by being added  to the loan (a 
single premium)  where it attracted interest over the term of the loan. The loan was repayable over a 
Ref: DRN421042423 year term and the policy term matched  that of the loan. The total monthly  loan repayment including 
PPI was £175.67  the PPI element was £22.54. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr B for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr Bs monthly loan repayment in the event  of a 
successful disability or unemployment claim for 12 months.
At the time, Mr B was employed as a engineer.  He has told us he wasnt entitled  to any sick pay and 
had no savings he could  use to make his loan repayments if he couldnt  work. Mr B has said he was 
in good health at the time of the sale.
Barclays has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed  in 2010.
Mr Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully.  In summary, Mr Bs 
representative says:
Barclays failed to meet  the sales  standards which  applied at the time.  In those circumstances, 
applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on handling PPI complaints under 
DISP APP 3, it should  be presumed Mr B wouldnt  have taken out the policy and the 
complaint should be upheld. Mr Bs representatives  believe there to be no evidence to rebut 
that presumption;
The policy  excluded  or limited claims  for back pain and stress, which are some of the most 
common reasons  people are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could  make a successful 
claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low claims  ratio.  The 
common law duty of utmost good faith means Barclays should  have told Mr B about  the poor 
value; 
The cancellation terms were unfair;
The common  law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations  of cover to Mr B and the impact they would have 
had on him chances  of making a claim;  and
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their responses to 
the adjudicators  opinion. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  for several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt  be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all the 
evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what  is, in my opinion, fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account: relevant  law and 
regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards; relevant codes of practice; and, where  
appropriate, what I consider  to have been good industry practice at the time. The Financial  
Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints on our website  and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail  how these relevant considerations  may 
Ref: DRN42104243apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into 
account in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
The credit  agreement  itself concluded in 2010. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in 
s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  about  s.140 of that Act 
and the rules  and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of complaints about the non-
disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin judgment, arent applicable. 
This sale took place in 2007  after the sale of general  insurance products like this became regulated 
by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January  2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching  
principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB) are applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some time been codes governing  the sale of insurance  
products such  as PPI. There is much in common between the present statutory  regulatory regime and 
the non-statutory provisions that preceded it (and, indeed, the position at law).  
Although the non-statutory  provisions no longer apply  as specific requirements on those selling  
insurance, I consider  that they still represent  a helpful guide to good industry practice. As a result it is 
appropriate for me to take them into account along with the relevant  ICOB rules and the other relevant 
considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005,  there was a period  of industry  self-
regulation by the General  Insurance  Standards Council (GISC). It published  The General Insurance 
Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the GISC Code. This set out 
minimum standards of good  practice for its members to follow when  selling insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British  Insurers  (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider to be 
indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like Barclays,  
selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business  Code of Practice  for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than Registered  
Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code  was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code  of Practice for Telephone  Sales, Direct Marketing/Direct  Mail 
and the Internet
The Resume  for Intermediaries 
Ive also taken  account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional advisers to give advice 
with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating  to the utmost  duty of good faith; and the law 
relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful  of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued by the 
FSA in 2010,  which sets out how firms should handle  complaints relating  to the sale of PPI. The sale 
took place after insurance mediation became a regulated  activity in January 2005, so Barclays was 
required to take into account  the evidential provisions in DISP App 3 when considering Mr Bs 
complaint.
key questions
Ref: DRN42104244Taking the relevant  considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in particular, 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Barclays gave Mr B sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  him to 
make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to him 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the 
policy and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint  about the alleged mis-sale in 
favour of Mr B, I must  then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr B suffered loss or 
damage and what I consider would  amount to fair compensation  for that loss or damage.  
-If I conclude Mr B has not suffered loss or damage and I propose no award for the alleged 
mis-sale, I must then go on to consider whether, in all the circumstances  (and taking into 
account sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer  Credit Act, the Supreme Courts decision 
in Plevin, and the FCAs guidance at DISP  App 3), Barclays should have disclosed  the 
commission it received - and if it didnt, what would be fair compensation in all the 
circumstances.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and Barclays,  Ive 
provisionally decided  not to uphold Mr Bs alleged  mis-sale complaint. I have also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission and Ive provisionally decided that Barclays should have 
disclosed the commission it received. My provisional findings are set out below. 
did Mr B know he had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
The loan was applied  for through over the phone. So I cant say exactly what was discussed with Mr B 
and the sales advisor. But Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement Mr B wouldve  had to sign to get 
the loan. I can see it sets out the cost of the loan and the PPI with and without interest,  separately. 
And I see there is a separate place to tick and sign to take the PPI and that section 5 of the credit 
agreement says PPI is optional.
So I think Mr B wouldve understood he had a choice in taking the PPI because it was presented as 
optional on the credit agreement. And I think if PPI hadnt  been  discussed  with Mr B he wouldve 
questioned why it was on the loan agreement. 
So taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr B knew the policy was optional and 
he agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
did Barclays provide advice?
I dont know what steps Barclays took to establish whether the policy was a suitable  recommendation  
for Mr B. It seems  Mr B cant  remember clearly what happened and there is no record of what  the 
adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. 
The adviser  likely had some limited information about Mr Bs financial circumstances, but there is no 
specific evidence to show the adviser took steps to establish  whether Mr B would  have been caught  
by the significant exclusions  and limitations  which might have meant the policy did not fully meet  his 
needs. For example,  there is nothing to suggest Barclays considered whether Mr B had any pre-
existing medical conditions.
Ref: DRN42104245Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Barclays did all it should  have done to 
determine whether the policy was suitable  for Mr B given  his circumstances. So Im not persuaded 
Barclays advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Barclays  did all it should have done to make sure the policy was suitable  for 
Mr B, I do think  its more  likely than not that the policy was ultimately  suitable  for him. In reaching that 
conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr B had a need  for the policy   he would  not have  received any sick pay if he was unable to 
work due to illness, his redundancy benefits are likely  to be limited and he didnt have any 
savings he could fall back on. The policy would have helped Mr B manage the consequences  
were he unable  to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears to have been affordable for Mr B.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt  make the policy  unsuitable for Mr B. There  was nothing 
about Mr Bs employment  or occupation  which would have  made it difficult  for him to claim. 
And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical  conditions that could affect his ability to 
claim. There were  also no additional restrictions on cover for mental  health or back problems.
-Although a pro-rata refund would not have been paid if Mr B cancelled  the policy early and 
there is nothing to suggest  (at the time) that Mr B had plans to repay the loan early. The 
purpose of the loan was not debt consolidation  or anything else which might suggest a need 
to repay the loan early,  or that this was likely to happen.
 
Ive also considered whether, when  providing  advice, Barclays  gave Mr B sufficient  information about 
the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what Barclays was recommending to 
him and make an informed decision about whether to follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more  likely than not that Mr B was given  a broad  description of what the policy was 
intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect him payments if Mr B was unable to work 
through accident, sickness and unemployment.) I have reached this conclusion  because  I think its 
unlikely Mr B would have  taken  out the policy  without any sense of what  the policy  was. And I think  Mr 
B knew that the single premium being added to the loan was £736.15 and the monthly  cost was 
£22.54 each  month  (as this information  was, in my view, sufficiently clear on the loan agreement  Mr B 
signed.)  
But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Barclays gave sufficient information  
about the actual monthly benefit,  or about  the exclusions  or limitations before Mr B agreed to take out 
the policy.  
Overall, having considered  the parties representations about what happened, while  Im satisfied the 
policy was a suitable recommendation  for Mr B Im not persuaded Barclays did enough to present 
information about the policy it was recommending  in a way that was fair and reasonable to Mr B. Im 
not persuaded  Barclays gave Mr B all of the information he needed  about  the policy  to make an 
informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings  interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its guidance for 
firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set out above, Im 
persuaded there were significant failings  in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted  above, Mr Bs representative has raised a number of general  
points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing  information  in PPI sales. It 
Ref: DRN42104246suggests these points apply  to all PPI complaints, like Mr Bs. Ive considered these  carefully and 
summarised them as:
-The common  law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should  have explained  the 
low claims ratio  what  Mr Bs representative considers  to be poor  value  and the fact that 
much of the premium  went to the business rather than the insurer. 
-The common  law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt  have just told Mr B 
about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them  to him. 
Im not persuaded  by Mr Bs representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in insurance  
law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and not to make material 
misrepresentations. While I cant  be certain  what  a court would say  I think  its unlikely a court would 
find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose  the claims  ratio information or explaining the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way Mr B has suggested.  And taking into account  
the law, industry  codes  and standards of good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont 
think its fair and reasonable  to conclude  that Barclays ought to have done  either. 
what effect did Barclayss shortcomings have on Mr B? To what  extent did Mr B suffer loss or 
damage as a result?
Ive found that Barclays didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr B. So I have  
gone on to consider whether  it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr B suffered loss and 
damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr B would  have still taken  out the 
policy, had Barclays done things properly.  
While Im not persuaded Barclays  took the steps it should have done to establish whether the policy it 
recommended was suitable for Mr B, I have found that the policy was ultimately  suitable  for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr B has suffered loss or damage in this 
case primarily depends  on whether, if Barclays had explained  things properly, Mr B would  have acted  
differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr B says he wouldnt  have taken it out and believes I should  presume this to be the case given the 
significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of both sides and the evidence 
relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether to follow  advice to take out insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a number 
of factors before  deciding whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to weigh  up the advice  to 
take out the policy,  the cost of doing so given the benefits offered  in return and the potential 
consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance,  should  the risks come to fruition.
The evidence  in this case  suggests that Mr B had some  interest  in taking out payment protection  
insurance. By this I mean when Barclays advised him that there was a suitable product he could buy 
that would protect his mortgage payments  in the event he was unable  to work because of accident, 
sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted  that product.  But he made  that decision based 
on incomplete  information, meaning  what he thought he was getting is not exactly  what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about Mr Bs circumstances  at the time of the 
sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable for him.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr B was given about  the cost was clear. But the 
information about other  aspects of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations and exclusions wasnt as 
clear as it should have been.  
Ref: DRN42104247Im not persuaded  Barclays made  clear exactly  what Mr B would get back  in return  in the event  he 
made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Bs expectations about what the policy would  pay 
in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient  to meet his loan repayment) were  significantly different to 
what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant  differences between  what  Mr B thought he had bought and what  he 
actually bought were  the following:
The policy  excluded  claims relating to medical  conditions and or symptoms  that Mr B knew 
about or received  treatment for during the 12 months before the start date of the policy; 
The policy  limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mr B wasnt a 
permanent employee;
The policy  did not provide a pro-rata refund if Mr B repaid the loan early and the policy was 
cancelled, so it wouldve been more expensive for Mr B to have done so; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr B be unable  to do his 
own job, a similar job or any paid work which his experience, education  or training reasonably 
qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused Mr B 
pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude the policy wasnt as good as he 
thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover, when coupled  with 
the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded  some consumers  in slightly different 
circumstances from Mr B from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence about  Mr Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. he was eligible for its benefits  and it provided cover  that, 
despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve  proved  valuable to him should  the insured risks have 
become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  Mr B didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions and he was in permanent  
employment. Mr B also didnt likely need, and theres no evidence to suggest  he intended, to repay 
the loan early.  So, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude  back  or mental health conditions  or place  any additional restrictions or more 
onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim  on those  grounds than would have applied to 
any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr B would have expected to make a disability claim  
on the policy without first providing some evidence to support that claim.
If Mr B had known he could  only claim  for disability if he was unable to do both his job and any similar 
gainful occupation which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become qualified for, it might have 
played into his thinking  about what he would have done. And I accept it may have given him pause for 
thought  although its possible he may not have  been  overly concerned  given that if Mr B was unable 
(through disability)  to carry on his own occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would  also, in all probability,  be limited.
Having considered  all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more  likely than not Mr 
B would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, was sufficiently close to what 
its likely  he thought he was getting and provided benefits that would help him manage  the 
consequences were  Mr B made redundant, or unable  to work through accident or disability. In the 
circumstances I consider  it more likely than not Mr B would have taken out the policy in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Bs representatives  say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) make it clear 
that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the consumer wouldnt have taken 
out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. They say we should follow this other 
than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN42104248That guidance  is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration, so I take it into account along  with many 
other things  when I decide  what  is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering  the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead to. In the 
language of DISP App 3, Ive found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there were substantial flaws in 
the sales  process. In those  circumstances,  DISP App 3 says it should be presumed Mr B would not 
have bought the PPI he bought unless , in the particular  circumstances of the complaint, there  is 
evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable  to conclude the presumption is rebutted in the 
particular facts and circumstances  of this complaint. Taking into account  Mr Bs circumstances as 
detailed above, I consider it reasonable  to conclude the position  Mr B found himself  in as result of the 
sale was the same  position he would have been in had the breach or significant failings  not 
occurred. 
Mr B believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process were  
immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have failed  to give proper weight to 
the evidence  including  his own comments that he would not have taken out the policy. I am not 
persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately  departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which  I dont 
consider I am), I am only doing so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would represent fair 
compensation to put Mr B in the position  he would have been in if he had not bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy, I am satisfied 
that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would still have taken out the PPI had he 
been given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the policy he was buying. So Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude Barclays should  pay 
Mr B compensation, as that would put him in a better position than he would  have been in if 
everything had happened as it should have done. 
Ive also thought  about  the approach Mr Bs representative says a court  might take if it were  to find 
Barclays had been in breach  of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my 
conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including 
what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons  Ive already set 
out I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr B in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done.
So I dont propose to uphold  the mis-sale  element of Mr Bs complaint.
However, having considered the overall  mis-sale, I must now go on to consider whether the non-
disclosure of commission  resulted in an unfair relationship under  section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act  and if so, what compensation  it would be fair to award to Mr B to remedy that unfairness.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive considered the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court 
decision in Plevin v Paragon and the FCAs rules and guidance for businesses about handling  PPI 
complaints set out at DISP  App 3 (as I referred to earlier) in the light of that case.
Section 140A (1) and (2) of the Consumer  Credit Act states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor  arising out of the agreement  (or 
the agreement taken with any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of 
the following:
Ref: DRN42104249(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related  agreement;
(b)the way in which  the creditor has exercised  or enforced any of his rights under the agreement 
or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either  before or after the 
making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination under  this section the court  shall have  regard to all 
matters it thinks relevant (including matters  relating  to the creditor and matters relating to the 
debtor).
Mr B has made a number of representations about the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 
140A and 140B  of the Consumer  Credit Act on his complaint. In summary, Mr B said that:
-Barclays failed to tell him about the high commission and profit-share rates  paid, the low 
claims ratio (the proportion  of the premiums paid by policyholders  used to pay claims), and 
the restrictions and exclusions on cover; and
-If Barclays had told him about those things, he would not have taken  out the policy, so he 
should get back  all the money  he paid by way of premium for the policy.
Ive considered those representations carefully. In doing so, Im mindful of the following:
-When selling insurance, the relevant insurance codes did not specifically require Barclays to 
tell Mr B about commission or about the claims ratio (nor, for reasons  Ive already explained, 
did the duty of utmost good faith require that). As the FCA said when introducing  its rules and 
guidance to businesses for the handling of PPI complaints in the light of the Plevin  judgment,  
the failure to disclose commission was not in breach of the industry codes and would not  in 
and of itself  have been a breach of FCAs Principles for Businesses. Those Principles 
include a requirement on businesses to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them  fairly  (albeit as I set out earlier the Principles are not relevant  in this case.)
-Where a court determines under  section  140A  that the relationship between the creditor and 
the debtor arising  out of a credit agreement  (or the agreement  taken with any related  
agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of (among  other things) anything done, or not 
done, by or on behalf of the creditor, the court has a range of powers available to it under 
section 140B. Those powers include altering the terms of the credit agreement  or any related 
agreement, requiring  the creditor to repay sums paid by the debtor, and to reduce or 
discharge any sums payable.
-The Supreme Court  considered whether the non-disclosure of high commission levels  might 
produce an unfair relationship in the case of Plevin. In that case, the Supreme  Court 
concluded that that the non-disclosure  of commission  could  lead to an unfair relationship.
-Following the Plevin judgment (and the uncertainty that it created), the FCA issued rules  and 
guidance to businesses for the handling of PPI complaints that included a complaint about  
undisclosed commission. That guidance (which is contained in DISP App 3) came into force  
in August 2017 and was preceded by a policy statement (PS17/03, issued in March  2017) 
and two consultation papers (CP15/39 and CP16/20). The respondents to those consultations 
included consumer groups, businesses, claims  management companies  and trade  
associations, and the final rules and guidance took account of their views.
-In PS 17/03, the FCA said that in publishing this guidance for firms, it had used [its] 
regulatory judgement  to create a framework that [it] believe[s] will reduce uncertainty  and 
enable firms to take a fair and consistent approach to handling PPI complaints. This will help 
ensure the best outcomes  for consumers at the earliest stage in the complaints process 
[Page 6 para 1.8]
Ref: DRN421042410-In broad terms, the FCAs guidance and rules for businesses handling  PPI complaints require  
businesses to consider  complaints about PPI using a two-step  approach as set out in DISP 
App 3. Broadly speaking, at step 1, the firm should first consider whether the businesss 
conduct of the sale failed to comply with FCAs rules or legal requirements.  Where failings 
are identified, the business  should determine  the way the consumer  would have acted if the 
breach or failing had not occurred (i.e. whether or not the consumer would  have bought the 
policy) and then determine  appropriate redress - if any. It is at this step, for instance, where 
the presumption in DISP  App 3.6.2E   which I have  already addressed above  may apply.
-Where the business  concludes  as Barclays did in this complaint  that the consumer would 
have bought PPI, it must then go on to assess, at step 2, whether  any failure to disclose  
commission and profit share gave  rise to an unfair relationship  under section 140A,  in which 
case the business  should  go on to determine the appropriate remedy - if any.
-As a starting  point, the FCAs rules  and guidance  require businesses to presume that the 
failure to disclose  commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more  than 50% of the cost of the policy  (the FCA referred  
to this as the tipping  point in its consultations and policy statement). Usually,  in those  
circumstances, the FCAs rules and guidance require  businesses to refund the amounts paid 
by the consumer  in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest. 
While this presumption of an unfair relationship  is rebuttable, I note that Barclays has not 
sought to rebut it in Mr Bs case. In fact, Barclays made an offer or payment to Mr B in 2018, 
calculated in line with the FCAs guidance.
Was there an unfair relationship?
Given that Barclays didnt tell Mr B about  the high levels of commission  and profit share  paid in this 
case, I think its likely a court  would  determine that the relationship between Barclays and Mr B was 
unfair under section 140A. As Ive mentioned  above, the FCAs rules require Barclays to determine 
appropriate redress  in those circumstances, and I have had regard to those rules  below in deciding  
what compensation it would be fair to award  Mr B in order to remedy  that unfairness.  
With respect to the claims ratio, I cant say with any degree  of certainty whether  a court  would  
conclude that Barclayss failure to disclose  information about the claims  ratio also meant there was an 
unfair relationship.   But in some respects, commission  and the claims  ratio are two sides of the same 
coin  the fact that a relatively small  amount of the premiums is required to pay claims  is what  permits  
the high commission and profit share payments.  
And I accept  although  I cant be sure  theres a possibility that a court  might take a similar  view 
about the claims  ratio when  considering  a claim  under section 140A. But since Ive already found  that 
its likely  a court  would  say that Barclays should have told Mr B about commission, and the claims 
ratio involves a similar concept, I dont think the failure  to disclose the claims ratio as a separate 
matter affects my overall conclusion about whats  fair in this case.
So, taking into account:
-the likelihood (in my view) that a court would  determine the relationship between Barclays and 
Mr B was unfair under  section 140A  because it didnt tell him about  the high levels of 
commission and profit share paid in this case; and
-the regulators complaint handling guidance for businesses, 
I dont think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B insofar as it failed to 
disclose the high commission  and profit share paid out of the premiums in this case. 
Redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Ref: DRN421042411Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy the 
unfairness I have identified.  
Ive thought carefully about  whether fair compensation  means  Mr B should get a full refund of the 
premiums he paid to put him in the position he would have  been in if he hadnt taken the policy  out, or 
a full refund  of the commission and profit share Barclays received, or a refund of the commission paid 
above a certain point   for example by taking the approach set out in the FCAs  rules and guidance 
(as has already been  offered by Barclays).
As Ive mentioned above, Mr B says that he should get a full refund of all the PPI premiums he has 
paid. In summary, Mr B says that the high level of commission (and/or the low claims ratio)  together 
with the policys limitations and exclusions  meant that the PPI policy generally represented  poor 
value for money for him. I should therefore find that Mr B would not have purchased the policy  had he 
known of the level of commission  and accordingly,  he should receive a refund  of all the PPI 
premiums he paid. 
I have thought  carefully about these representations and am mindful of Lord Sumptions  observation 
in Plevin (at paragraph 18 of his judgment) where  he said:
Any reasonable person in [Mrs Plevins] position who was told that more  than two thirds of the 
premium was going to intermediaries, would be bound to question  whether  the insurance  represented 
value for money, and whether it was a sensible transaction to enter into. The fact that he was left in 
ignorance in my opinion  made the relationship  unfair. 
However, I note that the Supreme Court made no specific finding about whether the consumer in that 
case (Mrs Susan  Plevin)  would (or would not) have purchased the PPI policy had the commission 
been disclosed to him at the time of him purchase. The Supreme Court simply did not address  the 
question of causation.  I do not therefore consider that the Plevin judgment necessarily  drives  me to 
the conclusion that Mr B suggests it does  i.e. that he necessarily would  not have purchased the 
policy had the level of commission been  disclosed  to him at the time.
I have also borne in mind  that the overarching  question for the court would be what  steps are required 
to remedy the unfairness, and that, under section 140B, the court would have a wide range of powers 
available to it in order to do so under the lending relationship in question. It does not, for instance, 
follow that because Barclays did not disclose  the high level of commission to Mr B, the court would  
necessarily order Barclays to return all the premiums  Mr B paid for the policy. Nor does it follow that 
the court  would necessarily find that Mr B would not have purchased the policy but for Barclayss  
failure to disclose  the high commission.  
Taking into account relevant  law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an ombudsman is to 
determine what  redress,  if any, would  represent fair compensation for Mr B in order to remedy the 
unfairness arising from the fact Barclays did not disclose  the high level of commission to him before 
he purchased  the policy.
The FCAs  guidance to firms following the Plevin judgment
In considering what would represent fair compensation for Mr B, I have,  as I stated earlier,  had regard 
to the FCAs guidance to firms for handling PPI complaints involving a complaint about undisclosed  
commission. I think the FCAs guidance is an important consideration for me to take into account, and 
I will now explain  how I think the FCAs guidance  affects my decision on this issue.   
As I explained above,  the FCA consulted extensively between  2015 and 2017 on the question  of how 
firms should handle PPI complaints involving a complaint  about  undisclosed commission in the light of 
the Plevin judgment. In the exercise of its regulatory judgment,  the FCA established the two-step 
approach I summarised above. According to the FCA, the purpose of this approach was to allow firms 
to take a fair and consistent  approach to handling PPI complaints involving undisclosed commission. 
The FCA explained why it decided to exercise  its regulatory judgment in the way it did in paragraphs 
4.68  4.70 of PS17/3.   These paragraphs state as follows:
Ref: DRN421042412The two step approach 
The approach  to assessing merits 
4.68 Some responses from industry, and from CMCs  and consumer bodies, maintained their broad 
support for our proposed structuring of the new rules and guidance concerning  Plevin as a separate  
second step  within our existing  PPI complaint handling rules  and guidance,  seeing it as a sensible 
and proportionate approach.  
4.69 However, some  industry respondents  maintained and amplified their concerns about our view (at 
paragraph 5.69 of CP15/39) that, in some marginal cases,  a firm may conclude at Step 2 that not 
disclosing commission over 50% was the straw  that broke the back of the sale as a whole, and that, 
overall, the customer would not have bought the PPI if given better  information, including about  the 
commission, at point  of sale. These responses argue that our view: 
inappropriately blurs  the lines between two very different sets of circumstances
is confusing and contradictory from the consumers  perspective
will result in uncertainty and disorderliness, as CMCs will use it to try to get any Step 2 uphold 
upgraded to a Step 1 uphold, increasing  the length and complexity of handling for firms and 
delaying redress to consumers
imposes disproportionate costs  on firms and the Financial Ombudsman Service who will need 
to operationalise  such hybrid assessments  as standard in their processes despite the small 
number, we say, whose outcomes will change in practice 
4.70 Conversely, some responses  from consumer bodies and CMCs maintained  and amplified  their 
previous concerns  that we are artificially and wrongly separating  the issues at Step 1 and Step 2, 
when these should be considered together.  Specifically, they said that: 
We had mis-understood the relevant case law and disregarded relevant  considerations from 
the Plevin  judgment, and ignored  the findings of the Competition Commission that the 
non-disclosure of commission was a central  plank of the sales strategy  employed  by most  
lenders.
The question  of unfairness  under s.140A is not a narrow test of commission. Instead,  it is a 
wide one in the round, so any sales failings at Step 1, or other issues of unfairness or 
inequalities of knowledge such as poor value from a low claims ratio, should also be 
considered at Step 2, in particular  by the Financial Ombudsman Service, which  has to 
consider all the circumstances anyway, not just s.140A. 
Conversely,  Plevin says failure to disclose commission is unfair   which presumably also 
makes it a breach of FCA principles  6 and 7  and that the customer  did need to be told about 
poor value, and it explicitly  cites unfairness arising from undisclosed poor value. So it is wrong 
for our proposed  structure to imply  (and Financial Ombudsman Service decisions to assert) 
that the non-disclosure of high commission and poor value was not relevant for causation  and 
potential mis-selling or assessment at Step 1. Our proposed approach paid lip service  to this, 
allowing that undisclosed commission may be the straw  that broke the back of the sale as a 
whole, but said these are marginal cases that will be few and far between   whereas in 
reality, they are the norm.
As proposed, Step 2 assumes Step 1 has been fairly carried  out, but we cannot reasonably 
assume that, given the continued poor complaint  handling  by firms.  And the approach itself 
incentivises lenders  not to concede a mis-sale, and to instead redress more  cheaply  at Step 
2. 
Ref: DRN421042413Our response
We have carefully considered this feedback. However,  we see no reason  to change our previous 
views or position.
Plevin deals with the specific  question of whether an unfair relationship between  lender and borrower 
was created by undisclosed high commission  on the PPI. This question is different from, and narrower 
than, the principal question behind our existing rules and guidance for firms, which is: did the conduct 
of the firm that sold the PPI fall so short, at point of sale, of what we would expect  under our Principles  
and ICOB(S)  rules, that it made the sale substantially  flawed? 
We still believe  the two-step approach  reflects this difference appropriately and fairly for complainants 
and firms. An alternative approach which  merged considerations about  undisclosed commission into 
the existing  rules and guidance about  mis-selling to create a single test would not be appropriate  
because: 
We do not consider  the non-disclosure  of commission in PPI sales to have been a breach of 
our ICOB(S) rules,  and it is unlikely in and of itself to have been in breach  of our Principles, 
whereas we do consider the various sales failings set out in the existing rules and guidance to 
be so.
It would lead us, and firms, into difficult considerations of whether  a consumer would  still have 
bought the PPI if they had been told about the level of commission. This difficulty  is 
compounded by the fact that complaints  about PPI increasingly involve  older, pre-2005  sales, 
of which some will be eligible to be considered at Step 2.
Additionally,  if we were to force firms to make these assessments it would result in complaint 
outcomes which would be both arbitrary and inappropriately all or nothing. It could give too 
little  nothing  to many  consumers  who had suffered  an unfair relationship, and too much  
full return  of premium  and interest  to many consumers who had benefitted from the PPI 
cover. (See paragraphs  4.87-4.105  below for further discussion of our approach to redress.) 
We would, anyway,  have to leave scope for a PPI complaint where undisclosed commission 
may be relevant  to be assessed by a lender that did not sell the PPI and could not assess  if it 
was mis-sold  under our existing rules..
This extract makes  it clear that the FCA specifically considered representations from consumer 
bodies and claims management companies which are very similar to the representations which Mr B 
is now making  i.e. that the existence of an undisclosed  high level of commission  means  that I 
should find that Mr B would  not have purchased the policy  had he known  about the level of 
commission at the time he bought the policy.
However, I note that, in the exercise  of its regulatory  judgment, the FCA decided that it would  not be 
appropriate to merge considerations about undisclosed commission into the existing rules and 
guidance about mis-selling . This is why it created the two-step approach for firms handling PPI 
complaints summarised above. And as part of that two-step approach, the FCA said that impact of the 
undisclosed commission  and the compensation required to remedy the unfairness caused by that 
undisclosed commission  should generally be considered at step 2. 
Turning now to consider  what the FCAs guidance says about how firms should calculate  fair 
compensation to remedy the unfairness caused by undisclosed commission at step 2, I am mindful 
that the FCAs guidance on this issue was also the product of extensive consultation  and deliberation. 
The following extract from para 4.104  of PS17/3 (omitting the footnotes)  explains the FCAs position:
Concerning the core logic of our proposed approach to redress, we note [] the courts  
might take a variety of approaches to redress on individual cases. However, we remain of the 
Ref: DRN421042414view that our approach, centred on the return of that portion of undisclosed commission plus 
profit share that exceeded the tipping point,  is fair and appropriate. As we have explained (see 
our response under paragraph 3.27 above), we are exercising our regulatory  judgement  about  
appropriate assessment and, where appropriate, redress of relevant  PPI complaints in light of 
s.140A-B, taking account of Plevin.  In doing  so, we are seeking to ensure fair and consistent  
complaint handling. We consider  our approach to redress to be a reasonable starting 
presumption, which fits well with the central importance Lord Sumption gave to the notion  of a 
tipping point. 
For these reasons, although it was the remedy in Plevin  ordered by the Manchester County 
Court, we do not agree  that our general approach to redress should  be the return  of all the 
commission that was not disclosed. Also, the consumer,  who, as would  generally  have been 
established at Step 1, was not mis-sold, had a need for the protection offered by the policy 
and enjoyed the benefit  of that protection before complaining. So it is fair and reasonable for 
the lender to keep some of the commission  from the policys distribution  (i.e. the portion under 
the tipping  point).
 
Nor do we agree that our approach to redress should be the return of all the premium(s)  paid 
by the consumer. Adopting this approach would dissolve  any meaningful distinction between  a 
mis-sale  and an unfair relationship under s.140A, and thus between  our existing Step 1 and 
proposed Step 2. In our view, it would (even more  than the return  of all commission) give 
excessive redress to the consumer who had enjoyed the benefit of that protection before 
complaining. We consider it is fair and reasonable for the consumer to have still paid for the 
underwriting of the policy and for some of the commission from the policys  distribution  (i.e. 
the portion under the tipping  point).
 
We do not agree that our approach to redress at Step 2 inconsistently evokes hypothetical 
scenarios or, in general or for historic interest specifically, implies any assumption that the 
customer would have searched for or bought an alternative  PPI policy that was cheaper by the 
amount of the excess commission over the tipping point. So we do not need to take into 
account whether such  alternative cheaper PPI policies existed or were  available to the 
consumer. 
Rather, as stated above, our approach  simply seeks to redress the customer  for that element  
of undisclosed excess commission and profit share which  created the unfair relationship under 
s.140A. It is in that specific  sense, of our approach  not second  guessing what the consumer 
would have  done had they been  told of the commission,  that we meant that our approach was 
different from the but for logic at Step 1. We did not mean  that our overall  approach to 
redress had no element of restoring the consumers financial  position  to what it would have 
been without the undisclosed excess commission.
 
Lastly, we note that our approach to redress  has to be viewed in the round, as a package. 
Responses from CMCs and consumer bodies have focused on aspects which they believe 
depart from Plevin  and are ungenerous to complainants, such  as the presumptive 50% tipping  
point and redress based on the excess over it. Responses from industry  have focused  on 
aspects which they believe depart  from . So we consider that, overall,  our approach is 
balanced and will give redress, in aggregate and to individuals, that is fair and proportionate in 
light of the detriment  identified and described by the Supreme Courts  judgment.  ..
In essence, therefore, the FCAs  guidance to firms  for calculating fair compensation in a case  like Mr 
Bs is that a firm should pay a sum equivalent to the commission and profit  share  that is in excess of 
50% of the policys cost, together with interest. According  to the FCA, compensation calculated  in this 
way would  fairly remove the element  of unfairness caused by the existence of the undisclosed high 
commission. 
my provisional  conclusion
Ref: DRN421042415Taking all these considerations  into account, and having carefully considered Mr Bs representations,  
my provisional  conclusion is as follows:
-Where a court determines that the relationship between  a creditor and debtor is unfair  under 
section 140A, the court  is empowered  to make a variety of different types of orders under  
section 140B in order remedy that unfairness.
-Mr B has urged me to conclude  that because Barclayss failure to disclose the high level of 
commission (and/or profit  share) made him relationship with Barclays unfair, I must find that 
he wouldnt have  purchased the policy had he known  about  these matters at the time he 
purchased the policy.
-However, I do not accept Mr Bs suggestion. As I said above,  I recognise it is possible that 
had the level of commission been disclosed to Mr B at the time of the sale,  he might have 
decided not to purchase the policy. At the same  time,  however, I am mindful of:
i. the FCAs observation  in PS17/03 (which  I have quoted above)  that the existence of 
undisclosed commission question raises difficult  considerations of whether  a 
consumer would still have bought the PPI if they had been told about the level of 
commission; and
ii. the fact that there are a variety of other ways to fairly remedy the unfairness caused 
to Mr B by the failure to disclose the high level of commission   I am not, as Mr B 
suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have  purchased the policy but for 
Barclayss failure to disclose the level of commission.
-I am also mindful that the FCAs guidance to firms for handling complaints  about the non-
disclosure of commission  requires  a firm to refund some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy 
in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission. I 
also think  that refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order 
which the court could,  in the exercise  of its discretion,  make under section 140B in order to 
remedy any unfairness.
 
-Overall, and on balance, I therefore think it was fair for Barclays to calculate compensation  in 
line with the FCAs guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of commission 
and profit share, and thus return some of the money Mr B paid for him PPI policy. This is 
because, in my view,  this:
i. fairly removed the source of the unfairness; while:
ii. leaving Mr B with the policy Ive concluded above he would have taken out if Barclays 
had met its obligations when acting as an insurance seller  but with lower 
commission and profit share levels.
   
-In other words, by compensating Mr B in line with the FCAs guidance at step 2, this 
effectively reduced the overall cost of the policy by an amount  equal to the excess 
undisclosed high commission (and/or profit share) which is the very source of the unfairness 
for the purposes of section 140A.
  
-I think that compensating Mr B in this way was a fair and reasonable outcome because it left 
him with the policy I believe he would  have  still taken out (for the reasons I explained above) 
while fairly compensating him for the unfairness  caused by the existence of undisclosed high 
commission. 
Taking all of this into account, I therefore  consider that Barclayss offer of payment of an amount 
equivalent to the commission and profit  share paid in excess of 50% of the policy  costs,  in line with 
the FCAs guidance  to firms  is fair in all the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN421042416my provisional  decision
Overall, having considered  all the evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set out above,  I dont 
propose to uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Bs complaint  or make  any award in favour of him for 
this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure  of commission  and profit share, Ive provisionally  decided  that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr B an amount  equivalent  to the commission and profit  share 
paid in excess  of 50% of the policy cost, if it hasnt  already done so.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4210424