K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Miss D says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Miss D didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this. I say this 
because Ive been given a copy of the application  form Miss D completed at the time. 
I can see that PPI was selected  with a printed X. It seems most likely that Miss D 
agreed to the policy after a discussion with the representative. I say that because the 
form also includes lots of personal  information. The cover  was selected on the form 
and Miss D has signed the form signalling her agreement to its contents. After the 
years that have passed since 2000 I havent seen sufficient evidence to think the 
business failed  to make it clear  to Miss D that she had a choice about taking the 
policy. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss D so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example she was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And she seems  to have had a need for the 
cover. I say this as whilst her initial sick pay was generous, after six months  it 
dropped significantly  and Miss D told us she had little in the way of savings to rely on 
in that circumstance. And this policy couldve covered 10% of her monthly balance 
for up to 12 months in the event  that ill health  prevented her from working and for 10 
months in the event  she lost her job. So as it wouldve  paid in addition to, and 
potentially for longer  than, any other  pay she may have received, I think  she couldve 
found this cover  useful.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons, given above,  that I think the policy  was 
suitable, I dont  think better information  about the PPI would have put her off taking 
out the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss D.
But Halifax  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss D because: 
When the policy was sold, Halifax expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss D about that. 
Because Halifax didnt tell Miss D, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN41654502To put that right, Halifax has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Miss D any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Halifax should  also pay back to Miss D any extra  interest Miss D 
paid because of that.
Halifax should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Miss D the difference 
between what Miss D owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Halifax should also pay Miss D 8%* simple  
interest if Miss D paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss D can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss D.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Miss D any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt  already.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4165450