K821x#15complaint
Ms Ws representative  has complained,  on her behalf, about  advice she was given by The 
Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  (Prudential) to set up a free standing additional 
voluntary contribution (FSAVC)  plan. 
background
Ms Ws representative  has said the following about  her circumstances at the time of setting 
up her FSAVC:
She was a member  of a public sector scheme  that offered the option to make 
additional voluntary contributions (AVCs). 
Prudential didnt  tell her the public  sector scheme offered an AVC plan, nor that it 
was likely to provide better value for money.  
The adviser didnt  discuss  the difference in charges, investment choice and method 
of investment between the FSAVC and the AVC. 
Prudential didnt  mention the option  of added  years. 
The representatives also said that, at the time of meeting the adviser  in 1996, Ms Ws salary  
was above average  at around £33,000. Her profile was of someone who was career-
oriented. By the time she retired shed held several senior roles and had a salary  of over 
£100,000. At the time of meeting with the adviser,  she had excellent salary  prospects,  so 
added years wouldve  been a better option  for her. There  was no discussion of the additional  
benefits from added years,  such as index linked increases in pensions  in payment, spouses 
and dependants  pensions, ill health or death  in service benefits, nor lump sum. The 
representatives said that Ms W had a risk adverse attitude and added years wouldve  been 
a better  option for her. The pension mis-selling review assumed that, given a choice 
between defined benefits or money purchase, most consumers would be better off with the 
former.
The representative added that Ms Ws loss should  be measured by reference to the lost 
added years she wouldve  purchased. It said she had a career  starting  at age 22 which 
enabled her to accrue 38 years service in public sector pension  schemes  - and she was 
eligible to buy added  years. Ms W also had a long term partner, so the dependants benefit  
attached to added years would also have been  of value  for her. It was estimated that the 
contribution for added years couldve started  at around £70 per month compared to more  
than twice that as a payment into her FSAVC. Added years  was also a better way to target 
maximum benefits and avoid over funding.
Prudential noted  that, when Ms W started  her FSAVC in November 1996,  she was a 
member of the Local  Government Pension Scheme  (LGPS) and had a low to medium  
attitude to risk. She was advised to contribute over £140 per month gross  into an FSAVC. 
But it said it couldnt find any record that the in house AVC options  in the LGPS  were  
discussed with her and it apologised for this. It completed a charges only loss calculation 
and offered approximately £11,250 in compensation, plus 8% simple  interest  from the date 
of the calculation. 
Prudential added that it wouldnt have been able to give advice  on added years, but this was 
something her employer shouldve made her aware  of. It couldnt comment on whether 
added years or the in house  AVC wouldve been most appropriate for her.
Ref: DRN41721142Having looked  at the case, our investigator  said that she wouldnt be asking Prudential to do 
more than it had. Because  Prudential couldnt  demonstrate whether Ms W had been  given  
enough information when she was sold the FSAVC, she looked at whether or not it was 
likely Ms W wouldve bought added  years instead  of contributing to an AVC. She felt Ms W 
had an established  career in one sector and was likely to remain  in it until retirement.  
However, she didnt  think  this necessarily meant that she wouldve purchased  added  years 
at the time. 
The investigator said that, at the time,  added  years were often more  expensive because of 
the conservative assumptions used and the fact there was no employer subsidy  for the cost 
of purchase. Even if the cost had been cheaper at the time, the cost wouldve increased  as 
Ms Ws salary increased, which the investigator  thought made it less likely she wouldve 
purchased added years. In the fact find, when asked if her financial circumstances were 
likely to change in the next five years e.g. promotion  etc, Ms W said no. So the investigator  
concluded that, at the time,  Ms W didnt anticipate her future career  progression. 
In terms of risk, the investigator noted  that, although Ms Ws representative  had said she 
had a low attitude to investment risk, the fact find had recorded  that Ms W had a low to 
medium attitude to risk. The investigator  said this suggested she was prepared  to take 
some risk, which meant  a money purchase  AVC option wouldnt have been ruled out as an 
option. While  it involved more risk, she couldnt  say that FSAVCs or an AVC plan were 
unsuitable, given  that Ms W was willing  to take some risk and already had guaranteed 
benefits in her public  sector final salary scheme. She said it was also likely that projections 
at the time wouldve  indicated  a greater benefit  than that provided by two years added  
service. So she wasnt persuaded that Ms W wouldve bought added years. 
Ms Ws representative  made further  submissions,  which can be summarised as follows:
It was Ms Ws intention  to stay within the field she was working  at the time  and she 
did, remaining in it until her retirement  in 2018
Her salary at the time of the advice was above  the national  average, and due to 
successive promotions, she had a high salary  at retirement. She would therefore 
have benefitted  most  from buying added years.
Ms W was on course to accrue close to the maximum  number of years service  in the 
final salary scheme.  She would have been  able to target  maximum benefits with 
great accuracy. But with a money  purchase  arrangement, there would have been a 
real danger of over funding  and paying a punitive 55% tax charge.
The cost of buying the extra years  would have been significantly lower  than the 
amount she was paying to her FSAVC.
Ms W was close to achieving the maximum benefits permitted under HMRC rules as 
they were then.
Attitude to risk was of secondary importance  in this case  the much more  likely 
course of action for Ms W would have been  to buy added  years,  had she been 
aware of that possibility.  
But the investigator didnt change her view. She felt she had considered all the points 
except for the issue of over funding. And she thought  it was only with the benefit  of hindsight  
that the issue of overfunding  had come to light. She didnt think that the risk of overfunding 
wouldve meant Ms W wouldve  chosen  added years  instead  of a money purchase AVC  if 
this had ever been a risk, an AVC plan had the flexibility to increase or reduce contributions.
Ref: DRN41721143Ms Ws representative  didnt agree, however,  saying  that, as Ms W would be in the same  
line of work,  it was foreseeable that she would run the risk of over or under funding  with a 
money purchase AVC.  The representative  said that added years  wouldve been the logical 
and cheaper option.
As agreements not been reached on the matter, its been referred  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case Prudential  has accepted  it shouldve  considered the AVC and that the charges 
wouldve been lower  - and has offered compensation for the difference. So the matter I need 
to consider is whether a money  purchase AVC arrangement was suitable for her 
circumstances, having regard to the option  of added  years  in a public sector pension 
scheme.
The Prudential adviser was a tied adviser,  and so could only recommend products marketed 
by Prudential. But they still needed to draw Ms Ws attention to the availability of the in 
house options  and recommend that Ms W investigate these options further. And as the 
FSAVC was sold after January 1995, there  should have been a reasons why letter and fact 
find. I wouldve expected  that to say that there was potentially better value  available  from 
the in house options  and encourage Ms W to look further, 
However, its possible that having done so Ms W might still have opted for the money 
purchase AVC. In particular taking  added years was often perceived as an expensive option  
to achieve the same  overall benefit.  Ms W may have  paid significantly less to buy the two 
missing added years which  would have taken her to full accrual, but the benefit shed be 
expecting from the amount  paid to the FSAVC would be correspondingly greater than that 
provided by those additional  two years  at least in the early  years at that level of 
contribution. And it would have been  pointless  Ms W buying more  than two years additional 
service in the scheme, if indeed she was confident that shed remain  in the same  type of 
employment until retirement. 
Its of course  possible that Ms W could have achieved both. It would have been possible for 
Ms W to buy the added years, and then if she wished to improve upon those prospective 
guaranteed benefits further,  pay an additional amount to either  the in house  AVC (subject to 
scheme limits)  or the FSAVC. 
Ms W had an amount which she was willing to commit to enhancing her pension  benefits.  
With suitable advice,  she would have explored  the options of doing so within  the main 
scheme. And that exercise would  have revealed the potential for Ms W to both enhance her 
guaranteed final salary  benefits to the two thirds maximum, with the possibility then of 
enhancing this further through  the money purchase  AVC route.
But there are other aspects of this case,  which I think  makes the case  for added  years less 
compelling. 
Future job prospects.
Ref: DRN41721144By the time of setting  up the FSAVC plan, Ms W had 13 years service in a public sector 
scheme and had taken  on some  management roles. At the time of the review,  she had 
moved into a new role as an adviser to others who did her previous  role. The fact find said 
she didnt anticipate future change in role or salary  in the next five years. She wouldve been 
best placed to judge  her future prospects. And such an answer wouldnt necessarily have 
pointed toward added years being the clear  choice, because there was no suggestion of 
significant future salary  increases which might  make added years the more obvious  choice. 
And although Ms W has seen significant  salary increases, I cannot give weight to that 
perspective just because in hindsight that is what happened. 
Attitude to risk
Ms Ws representative  has said her attitude to risk was low, but as Ive said above, the fact 
find suggested it was low to medium. Ms Ws representative has said that too much  
importance has been attributed to this aspect. But I disagree. Ms W was due to be very 
close to maximum  accrual of her final salary  scheme membership, and so she had a 
significant amount  of guaranteed benefits.  I therefore have  to consider whether the 
possibility of higher  returns in a money  purchase  scheme with her additional contributions  
would have appealed to her. If an individual had a very cautious  or risk averse  approach, it 
could be argued  that maximising the guaranteed benefits through added years would have 
been the sensible choice. But Ms W wasnt recorded  as such  her risk rating suggests a 
willingness to take some investment risk. And combining guaranteed  benefits with money 
purchase investment   in that type of ratio - wouldnt be unsuitable  for someone who was 
prepared to take some investment risk.
Other benefits of added  years
The added years carried additional benefits such as death in service,  ill health and 
dependants benefits. Ms W confirmed shed been in a long term relationship  since 1990. As 
the review was in 1996/7 it is clear it was an established relationship. However, in the fact 
find she indicated that she was only considering her own additional benefit rather than for 
any spouse or dependant. So I dont think the provision of such  benefits through added 
years would have  been  a deciding factor here.
Maximum benefits and HMRC limits
At the time the maximum pension benefits  through the scheme  wouldve been  broadly two 
thirds of earnings at retirement. As Ms W started  work  at 22 and, as far as I can tell, 
envisaged retiring at 60 (albeit I note she actually  retired  in 2018 at the age of 57), this 
meant she couldve purchased around another two years of service as added  years to give 
her 40 years  pensionable service the 50% salary  at retirement she wanted (her notes 
indicate a target pension  of around  £16,000 based  upon her salary at the time). However 
that maximum could also be met via AVCs  with the flexibility to amend the contribution  
level of funding looked like it was becoming  an issue. And for the reasons given above, Im 
not persuaded that Ms Ws risk attitude precluded investment in AVCs.
HMRC rules  on maximum benefits have changed  significantly and the current  provisions 
relating to the lifetime allowance couldnt have been  anticipated at the time. We cannot  in 
any case apply current understanding to impose a view in hindsight. But at that time, funding  
an AVC plan with the flexibility to amend contributions  if limits were  close to being  breached  
wouldnt generally have  been considered to cause an issue in a situation such as this.
Ref: DRN41721145I also note that Ms W didnt increase the amount she paid into her FSAVC despite significant 
increases in salary.  Her salary increased  from around £33,000 per annum at the time of the 
advice to over £100,000  by the time she retired. Had she bought added years, the 
contribution wouldve been a percentage of salary. And this would have outstripped  the 
contribution being made to the FSAVC plan as Ms Ws salary increased with successive 
promotions. Ms W may have  been comfortable  with that, and it may of course be the case  
that, had automatic contribution increases been  applied to the FSAVC,  Ms W would have 
been prepared  to accept this. But it wasnt set up with yearly increments, and the lack of 
increases in the FSAVC contribution  whilst not perhaps being a definitive  indication either 
way  nevertheless  doesnt corroborate the notion that Ms W would at the time have 
preferred to buy added  years. 
Summary
And so, on balance, for the reasons set out above,  Im not persuaded that Ms W would have 
chosen to buy added  years instead of money purchase AVCs  if shed been advised to 
investigate that option. I do, however, agree  that the in-house AVC option,  with the 
associated lower charges,  would  have been a more obvious and suitable choice for Ms W, 
had her attention  been drawn to that possibility. And so I think  Prudentials  offer to put her 
back in the position she wouldve been  in had she taken an AVC rather  than an FSAVC  of 
£11,216.63 plus 8% simple per annum interest to the date of payment, for charges only loss 
calculated as at 1 October 2018  (subject to tax on the interest), is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case.  
my final decision
My decision  is that the offer made by The Prudential Assurance Company Limited is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4172114