K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the service he received when he opened a current  account with 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
 
background
On 17 June 2018, Mr A applied online  for a current account with NatWest. The account was 
opened the next day. On 10 July 2018,  Mr A applied  for a card reader.  As he hadnt received  
a card reader, he applied again on 27 July 2018.  NatWest says that the card reader was 
enabled on 22 August 2018
Mr A says that during the application process, NatWest  offered him an overdraft of up to 
£2,000 and he chose an overdraft of £500. But when the account was opened, it didnt  
include an overdraft. He says that he doesnt  want to apply  for an overdraft now, as an 
additional credit  search  would affect  his credit  history.
Mr A also says that NatWest didnt  tell him that hed need a card reader to set up new 
payees for online banking and that there was a delay in getting the device to him. He says 
that he had to make an unnecessary trip to the branch.
Mr A says NatWest didnt respond  to the substance  of his complaint. He wants  an overdraft  
without a hard credit search, an investigation  into why he didnt receive  the payment device, 
an apology and compensation.
Our adjudicator thought that NatWest had dealt with Mr As complaint  fairly. She said that 
NatWest had provided evidence that Mr A hadnt  asked  for an overdraft when he opened  the 
account. The adjudicator said that it was reasonable for NatWest  to say that Mr A could 
apply for an overdraft in the usual way. 
The adjudicator said that new customers are shown  a screen telling them  of the need  to 
order a card reader. She said that Mr A ordered a card reader on 10 July 2018 and NatWest  
sent one to Mr A but it didnt arrive. He ordered  a second one on 27 July 2018  and enabled  it 
on 22 August 2018. 
Mr A didnt agree with the adjudicator. He asked to see the evidence  that he hadnt asked for 
an overdraft when he opened the account  and that there was online notification  of the need 
to order a card reader. He said that most  banks  would allow a customer to make a payment 
over the phone. Mr A said he didnt receive NatWests  final response letter and asked if 
NatWest could show that it and the first card reader had been delivered  to him. He said that 
the adjudicator  was assuming that NatWest was right but banks had problems with IT 
systems. 
The adjudicator gave Mr A a copy of NatWests records, which showed  that he hadnt 
applied for an overdraft. She said that, on balance, she thought that the prompt  about the 
card reader would have appeared when Mr A first opened the account. The adjudicator  
thought that visiting the branch was a reasonable alternative while  Mr A didnt have a card 
reader. She said that NatWest correctly addressed its final response and the first card 
reader and she couldnt comment on why Mr A hadnt received them. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
Ref: DRN46474212 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr A has very strong feelings  about this matter. Hes provided detailed 
submissions to support  his complaint,  which I have  read and considered.  However, I trust 
that he will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central  
issues.     
There are several areas where the facts are in dispute. Where things are not clear,  or in 
dispute, I make my findings  on what I think is most  likely to be the case. I take into account 
the evidence available  to me and the wider  surrounding circumstances.
the overdraft
Mr A says that when  he opened the account online,  NatWest offered him an overdraft of up 
to £2,000 and he asked  for a limit of £500  but the bank  didnt provide an overdraft.  
I cant know for sure what information  NatWest  gave to Mr A about an overdraft when he 
opened the account. NatWest says it doesnt have  screenshots of exactly what Mr A 
wouldve seen but its records show that Mr A didnt apply for an overdraft. 
On balance, I dont  think that theres  sufficient evidence to show  that NatWest  offered Mr A 
an overdraft. Even  if I came to a different conclusion about that, Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that NatWest promised Mr A an overdraft.  Any application  for an overdraft by Mr A wouldve 
been subject to the banks  usual checks and there was no guarantee that it would have been 
successful. Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but there are no grounds on which  to direct the bank  
to give him an overdraft now. 
the card reader
Mr A says that the bank didnt tell him that hed have to apply for a card reader and delayed  
sending him one. 
Again, at this distance, I cant know for sure whether NatWest initially told Mr A he needed to 
apply for a card reader.  NatWest says that at the time Mr A applied  to open an account, after 
hed created a PIN and password, it would have shown a screen  prompting  him to order a 
card reader. On balance, I think its more likely than not that the bank prompted Mr A to 
apply for a card reader  when he opened the account. 
Ive seen evidence  that Mr A first ordered  a card reader on 10 July 2018  and Im satisfied 
that the bank sent a card reader to Mr As registered address. I understand that Mr A didnt 
receive that card reader  but NatWest isnt responsible for any deficiencies  in the postal 
system. Mr A ordered a second card reader on 27 July 2018  and later received and used the 
one that the bank sent in response to that request. 
Ref: DRN46474213the response to Mr As complaint
The handling  of complaints isnt something  that this service can consider. The Financial 
Conduct Authoritys  complaint  handling rules require firms to have a complaints procedure to 
investigate complaints about the provision of financial  services and say that where a firm 
cant resolve the complaint, we have the power to do so. But the rules  that set out our 
powers prescribe what  we can and cant look at  and while  the underlying  financial service  
falls within  our jurisdiction, the handling  of complaints about them doesnt. So we cant  
consider the part of Mr As complaint about how the bank handled his complaint.  
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr A but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold  his 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4647421