K820x#14complaint
Mrs H, on behalf of Mrs C, complains  about  how Lloyds Bank PLC has dealt with her request 
to be added as a signatory on Mrs Cs account.
background
Mrs H holds a Power of Attorney for Mrs C and says she asked Lloyds what  documents  she 
needed to provide it with, in order to be added as a signatory on Mrs Cs account. Mrs H 
says when she attended a Lloyds branch she was told the documents she brought  were  
insufficient. But she didnt  have the documents Lloyds then asked for  such  as a driving  
licence, passport or letters  confirming tax paid. Mrs H says that she cant  provide the 
documents Lloyds  would like without incurring  a cost and that cant be fair. She says shes 
taken time off work  to sort this matter out and questions why Lloyds cant accept a letter  from 
her employer rather than her doctor when there may be a charge.
Lloyds upheld Mrs H complaint in part and accepted that it didnt provide appropriate 
customer service  and paid her £75 compensation. It doesnt accept making a mistake in 
asking for the documents it did. And says thats  its policy and has provided  a number of 
acceptable documents Mrs H could use.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator thought Lloyds  had dealt fairly with the 
complaint. The adjudicator  accepted  that Mrs H was frustrated  with Lloyds policy  but didnt 
think we could fairly order it to change that policy as that was the role of the regulator. The 
adjudicator also accepted  Mrs H may have to incur  a charge for using for example a doctors 
letter, but didnt  think that meant Lloyds policy was unreasonable. The adjudicator also 
provided Mrs H will some alternatives to a doctors  letter and how to obtain them.
Mrs H doesnt accept  that view and says Lloyds actions have caused her stress and this 
process has been ongoing  for some time. She feels she is being penalised because she 
doesnt have some of the documents and says she shouldnt need to prove who she is. Mrs 
H says she will not ask her doctor  for a letter confirming her identity.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons. I realise that Mrs H will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels  about  whats  happened 
and that she feels  frustrated by a request  that she provide documents  that she doesnt  have.
There is no question here that Lloyds didnt  provide  appropriate  customer  service when Mrs 
H first attended its branch. But I can see that its apologised and paid what I think  is a fair 
and reasonable amount of compensation. The main  issue  here is Lloyds request for 
documents that Mrs H says she doesnt have or that will cost her money to obtain.  And I 
sympathise with Mrs Hs position,  that she doesnt have a passport or driving licence for 
example. But Im satisfied  that its up to Lloyds to decide what its policy  and procedures  are 
on these sorts of security  issues when  exercising its commercial judgement.  And I dont think  
its something I can fairly interfere in or tell it to change its policies or procedure as thats the 
role of the regulator.
Im satisfied that Lloyds  has made a reasonable request for documents  from Mrs H before 
adding her to the account. Im also satisfied that it and the adjudicator  have provided a list of 
Ref: DRN41785032alternative documents that would be acceptable.  I appreciate that one of those alternatives 
may incur a cost- a doctors letter- but I dont think that request is unfair and Ive not seen 
any evidence that a cost would definitely  be incurred in any event.
Overall I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly  or made a mistake here in requesting the 
documents it did.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4178503