K820x#14complaint
Mr H says he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with a store  card he took out 
in 1994. The credit facility was provided  by a high street bank, but a company called 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited is responsible for answering Mr Hs complaint. 
Ill therefore refer to FICL throughout this final decision.  
background
The store card was taken  out in a store and obtained by filling  out an application  leaflet. PPI 
was added on to the card and Mr H says he doesnt  remember ever agreeing to it and wasnt  
even aware he had it.
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt  be 
upheld. Mr H disagreed  and so its been passed  to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
The first thing Id like to say is that I certainly dont doubt Mr H now honestly and genuinely 
believes the PPI was mis-sold to him. But weve seen a number  of very similar sales to this 
one and weve spoken at length to the company involved  to gain an understanding  of the 
processes that were  generally used. So we now know consumers were usually required to 
fill out a form which  was part of a wider  leaflet-based application.  The terms and conditions 
of the PPI were  included  in what the applicant was given  to complete. 
I was sent the agreement  Mr H signed when he took out the card and PPI. I can see there 
was a section  on the application  leaflet about PPI. This invited him to either tick an option 
box to have PPI cover  or alternatively, there was a no option available directly underneath.
Mr H says the handwriting  on the form doesnt look like his. Thats  obviously possible,  
because its feasible  that the store assistant may have helped him. But because there was a 
tick in the yes box and he signed  the form  and wouldve  had access to the terms and 
conditions as Ive described above  - I think he consented to the PPI policy.  
Mr H also seems to have  used the card quite a bit and been charged  for PPI. And because 
he frequently had an outstanding balance, I think the PPI charges would  have shown up 
regularly on his store card statements. If he hadnt  ever wanted PPI or didnt know what  it 
was, I think hed have  probably wanted to know what  the charges were  for.
FICL provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide enough  clear  
information for Mr H to decide  himself whether he wanted the cover.  I think  FICL could have 
set out the information about  the PPI on the leaflet in a better way, but overall I do think Mr H 
had access to enough information to allow him to make an informed decision. 
Ref: DRN43781622Mr H told us he had some sickness  protection  already with his job, implying  he didnt need 
any PPI. I understand  why hes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the benefits 
Mr H says he enjoyed. But these dont  necessarily mean the PPI wasnt  of use. 
I think Mr H was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we 
tended to see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was relatively 
expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection  than most credit  cards.  
For example, if hed become unable to work or lost his job, the PPI wouldve paid off 15% of 
his outstanding store card balance each  month  until he returned  to work or until all the 
balance was returned to zero. Life, injury and hospitalisation cover was also included.  These  
benefits wouldve  been in addition to any other  means Mr H had in place  at the time.
So although  I cant say why Mr H decided to select this cover when he applied for the card,  I 
think the PPI policy  was something  that would have been  of use to him. I think this could 
explain why he chose  it on the form.
For me to uphold Mr Hs complaint, Id need  to think it was more likely that he wasnt given 
an option or there were other serious  flaws in the way the policy was sold.  Instead,  what Ive 
seen makes me think Mr H specifically selected  the PPI and had access nearby to the 
information he needed about the PPI policy and its rules. And I dont think  theres  evidence  
that any better  or more   information  wouldve changed how Mr H acted. 
So Im afraid  I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold. Im very sorry to disappoint him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint and I dont require Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  to do anything.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4378162