K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about how NewDay Ltd (NewDay),  trading as Aqua Card, dealt with him 
when he reported  that he had lost his job. He wants NewDay  to refund the charges and 
interest he incurred, to remove negative credit  markers from his credit  file, and to pay him 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint, and my provisional view, in a provisional decision 
issued in June  2020. A copy of that decision is attached. 
That provisional decision has been  shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
comment. 
Mr R has not provided any comments in response  to the provisional decision, nor indicated 
whether he accepts or rejects the view. 
NewDay has provided a response to the view. It accepted the majority of the decision, but 
argued that it should not have to remove all negative information  from Mr Rs credit  file 
relating to the relevant  period. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision,  I set out that I thought Mr R should have been placed onto a plan 
which required no repayments  for three months, and which  would be reviewed at the end of 
that period. I considered that agreeing with Mr R a repayment plan of £4 per month, when he 
had no income and significant  outgoings, was unreasonable in the circumstances and was 
unachievable. 
NewDay, in its response has accepted  my provisional view,  but argues  that if Mr R had been 
put onto a zero repayment plan for three  months he would still have accrued arrears  over 
this period and that these arrears would  have been  reported to credit reference  agencies. 
NewDay therefore argues that to remove all negative information relating to this period 
would create  an inaccurate  reflection of Mr Rs accounts over this time and would not be 
putting Mr R in the position  he would  have been in if there had been no failing  in service.  
I accept this argument and understand that to remove all negative  information relating to the 
period January  June 2018  would create  an inaccurate and misleading view of Mr Rs 
account management during this time. I consider  that Mr Rs credit record  should not include 
any additional negative  information which was caused by NewDays failure to follow its usual 
process, and which would not have  otherwise been reported if Mr R had been placed on the 
three month plan. I accept, however that any information which  would have been reported  in 
any event should  remain on his credit file.   
As a result, I adopt my provisional decision and reasoning, as supplemented by this 
decision, and uphold Mr Rs complaint.  
 
Ref: DRN46180122my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  and above,  I uphold Mr Rs complaint and 
direct NewDay Ltd to:
Refund to Mr Rs account all charges  and interest applied  to his credit  card account 
between January 2018 and June 2018;
Recalculate Mr Rs account  balance  from June 2018 onwards so that his balances  
and credit file information takes  into account  the adjustment  above;
Remove any negative  information from Mr Rs credit file which would not have been  
applied had he been put on a three  month zero payment plan; 
Amend any remaining credit file information  in line with the above  adjustment; and
Pay to Mr R a total of £150  compensation  for his distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4618012