K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy with what  Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco)  have  offered  to do to put 
things right following  his complaint  about the sale of payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
In November 2000, Mr O applied for PPI to protect the payments towards a credit card.  
Mr O thought the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. The adjudicator  didnt think Tesco  had to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
Tesco offered to pay back some of what Mr O paid for the policy. 
Tesco said it got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr O about  that. To put that right,  Tesco has basically 
offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share  that was more  than 50% of 
the PPI premium. 
But when Mr Os account closed it was in arrears  and Tesco  sold the account  to a third 
party. So Tesco said it would use the payment to buy back some of what  Mr O still owed  to 
the third party.
Mr O thinks the money should be paid to him directly  he said hes being chased  for other  
debts through  the courts, and wants to use the money for this instead. He also said he was 
in arrears with his rent and utility bills.
Another adjudicator  looked at this, and thought  that what Tesco  has offered to do is fair. 
Mr O didnt agree with the adjudicator.  So the complaint has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Os case.
Ive first looked at the sale of the policy. I dont think the PPI was mis-sold because:
I think Tesco made it clear that Mr O didnt have  to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out. Ive seen the application  form and see that to buy the PPI Mr O 
had to tick a separate box to say he wanted to buy the cover.  This box is ticked. I 
also see that Mr O opted  not to buy another optional product shown on the form. 
I dont think Tesco advised Mr O to buy the policy  so it didnt have  to check  if it was 
right for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr O got the information he needed  to 
decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this 
Ref: DRN40159762type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him 
off taking out the cover.
This means Tesco doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI because:
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr O about  this. Because Tesco didnt tell Mr O, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Tesco has offered to pay back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium.
I think this offer is fair in this case. So Ive thought about whether Tesco should pay this to 
Mr O directly rather than to reduce  the debt Tesco bought back from the third party.
Based on what Ive seen,  I think its fair for Tesco  to reduce Mr Os outstanding debt. Ill 
explain why.
The cost of the policy was charged to Mr Os credit card, and interest was charged on these 
amounts in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Tesco  has worked out that, 
because of the commission and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium, Mr O 
was charged an additional  £657.10  in premiums, and £203.52 in interest.
But Mr O owed £6,730.34  when Tesco sold the debt on to the third party.  This is more  than 
Tesco now owes him because of the commission and profit  share. 
Tesco says it has bought the debt back  and Ive seen records showing this. So Mr O and 
Tesco now owe each other money because of the same credit card account.  In these 
circumstances, I think  its fair for Tesco  to offset  what Mr O owes  against what  it owes  Mr O.
I say this because,  based on Tescos offer, I think that most of the extra PPI and interest 
charges are included in the amount Tesco sold to the third party   and that he hasnt  repaid.  
So if I did tell Tesco to pay this money to Mr O directly, hed be getting back money hed 
never paid.
I also think that if Tesco hadnt charged this amount to the credit  card,  Mr O would still have 
owed money to the third party when Tesco sold the debt  but less. And this is the position  
that Tescos offer puts him in.
Ive considered Mr Os other  comments. He says he currently owes  money to his landlord 
and to utility companies.  And he says another lender is chasing him for debt through the 
courts.
I appreciate that Mr O feels strongly that this means Tesco  should  pay him this money 
directly. But given that most of the compensation is money he never repaid, I dont think  it 
would be fair to say Tesco  cant use the compensation  to repay the debt he owed them.  In 
Ref: DRN40159763any case, it looks like Mr O has reached  arrangements with the other people he owes  money 
to repay  what he owes in instalments.
Ive also considered Mr Os comments about what hes found on our website. He points out 
that our website says that if debt is sold on to a third party and it cannot  be bought back, or 
the business chooses not to buy it back,  we might take a slightly different approach. But in 
Mr Os case Tesco has bought back the debt  so what Mr O has found  doesnt apply to his 
case. So this doesnt make a difference to my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold, so Tesco Personal  Finance  Plc does  not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI. For the reasons above, my final decision is that the offer 
Tesco Personal Finance Plc has made  to resolve  Mr Os PPI complaint is fair. 
Tesco Personal Finance Plc has already bought  back some of the debt and provided 
evidence to show Mr Os debt with the third party  has been  reduced. So I dont  direct  it to do 
anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4015976