K820x#14complaint
The Partnership asked  us to consider a complaint about an interest  rate swap AIB Group 
(UK) Plc sold to the Partnership in March 2007.
background
At the time of the events complained of, the partners  of the Partnership were also directors  
and shareholders  in the Company.
In 2007 the partners wanted to borrow more money  to expand their businesses. After 
discussion with AIB, the Partnership  took several loans from AIB. At around the same time, the 
Partnership entered into an interest  rate swap to hedge the borrowing. The swap had a term of 
ten years  (to March 2017), a notional amount of £1 million, and a fixed  rate of 5.335%.
There was some difficulty with the loans,  and in April 2010 AIB applied an increased margin 
to them.
In 2014, AIB reviewed  the sale of the swap under  the review agreed with its regulator,  the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). AIB accepted that the swap had been  sold in a non-
compliant way. It offered to put the Partnership  in the position it would have been if it had 
taken a cap (over  a shorter term) rather than the swap.
The Partnership accepted AIBs offer in July 2014,  but retained the option of submitting a 
claim for additional (or consequential) losses.
Also in 2014, the Partnership complained about the margin increase on its AIB loans. AIB 
made an ex-gratia offer for a proportionate  refund and a decrease in the interest margin 
going forward. Following  further correspondence,  the Partnership  accepted  AIBs  offer in 
respect of the margin increase in April 2015.
In June 2015, the Partnership complained to AIB about the additional losses its 
representative said it had suffered as a result of the swap. Briefly, the representative said 
those losses were:
Increased borrowing costs  the margin on the loans would not have increased but for 
the sale of the swap.
Loss of profits  the Partnership would have been able to acquire  another  surgery  but 
for the sale of the swap.
Loss of profits  the Partnership would have been able to relocate  one of its surgeries to 
larger premises but for the sale of the swap.
I issued my first provisional  decision  on this complaint in December 2018, explaining why I 
didnt think the Partnership was an eligible complainant under our rules.  I changed  my mind  
on that point after the Partnership  provided me with more information, and I am now satisfied 
that I do have jurisdiction to consider the Partnerships complaint.
Ref: DRN49086862I issued a revised provisional decision  on the complaint in July 2019.  I said:
Whilst I am now satisfied that the whole of the Partnerships complaint falls within  my 
jurisdiction, I dont  think it would be appropriate  for me to consider the entire complaint.
AIB and the Partnership have already agreed  compensation for basic  redress (the 
difference between  the cost of the swap and the cost of the alternative cap, plus 
interest). They have  also agreed compensation for the margin  issue. So it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to look at either of those issues again.
[] 
Having provisionally  determined that the Partnerships complaint falls within  the 
jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I have gone  on to consider the merits 
of that complaint. In doing so Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Here, my starting  point  is that the swap should not have  been sold. Everyone  accepts 
that the original  sale was non-compliant,  and that AIB should have sold a cap instead.
As above, there  is no need for me to consider the direct losses arising from the sale of 
the swap. The Partnership and AIB have  already agreed compensation for that issue.  
But the Partnership says it also suffered consequential losses.  For this part of their 
complaint, I need  to look at whether the banks failures actually caused these losses. 
And if they did, I also need  to ask whether its fair to hold the bank responsible  for the 
losses. To do this, Id need to ask whether the bank could  reasonably  foresee that its 
failures would  result  in losses like these. In other  words, Id need to be satisfied that 
the losses werent too remote from the banks failings.
I also need to consider  whether the payment the bank has already made represents 
fair compensation for the Partnerships  consequential losses.  The banks payment 
included interest  calculated at 8% simple per year on the difference  between the 
payments the Partnership actually made to the swap  and the payments they would 
otherwise have made to the replacement  cap. In my view, that interest award gave the 
Partnership some compensation for having been deprived of the use of that money. To 
consider an award  beyond this  in respect  of loss of profit  or any other issue  I would 
need to be persuaded that any loss suffered  was greater than the 8% simple interest 
the bank has already  paid.
The Partnership says if the swap had not been  sold, it would have had funds to buy an 
additional surgery and relocate another.  It claims loss of profits.
I have carefully considered the evidence, but I am not satisfied that the swap was the 
reason the Partnership did not go ahead  with the purchase of the additional  surgery. In my 
view, the documents the partners have provided  do not show why the purchase did not go 
ahead  but they do show that other parties  were interested in buying the property.  
I know that a GP approached the Company to see if the Company was interested  in 
taking over his practice, but that does  not necessarily imply that he wanted  to sell to 
the Company  (or the Partnership) in preference to any other buyer. I do not know  why 
he chose the buyer  he did, but I cannot see that the existence of the Partnerships 
swap impacted that choice.
Ref: DRN49086863In respect of the proposed  relocation, the loss of profits claimed primarily relate  to the 
Company  and as Ive said, I cant make an award  to the Partnership for the 
Companys losses. Ive noted the partners comments about the profits they believe 
would have been earned by a surgery with a larger patient list, but I consider any such  
profits would have  been earned by the Company rather  than the Partnership.
I accept that the Partnership might have considered investing in other property 
opportunities  which  may or may not have involved surgery  relocations  if the 
Partnership had had access to more cash. But I have not seen sufficient evidence to 
persuade me that the swap was the reason the Partnership chose not to go ahead  with 
the purchase of new properties or the redevelopment of existing  ones. 
Overall, I dont  think it would be fair for me to order AIB to make  an additional payment 
to the Partnership.
The Partnership did not accept my findings. Its representative said:
The partners  of the Partnership are incredulous at the contents of my provisional 
decision, and do not believe that their evidence has been considered  fully or 
understood. They do not believe  that I can possibly have considered  all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint, because if I had done  so I would have made a different decision.
Although the Partnership did accept the banks offer in respect of margin increase  in 
April 2015, that was a provisional  acceptance.  The Partnership made  clear  that it 
reserved its position and continued with the claim  for the element that was not reduced 
back to its original  position. The partners do not believe that I have properly considered 
their stated  position on the margin  issue.
The Partnership has clearly demonstrated, with supporting evidence, the position it 
would have  been in if it had taken  a cap over a shorter  term rather  than a swap.  In that 
case, the margin on the loan would have stayed at 0.9% throughout the loan terms and 
the Partnership would  not have had to suffer  the extra 1% margin penalty.
The partners  do not understand why I said I thought it would  be inappropriate for me to 
consider the entire complaint. 
The partners  do not accept that the award of an interest payment constitutes 
compensation or sufficient compensation. They say that, as a matter  of law, an interest 
payment cannot constitute a substitute  for consequential losses.
Although I said I had not seen sufficient evidence to persuade  me that the swap  was the 
reason the Partnership did not go ahead  with the surgery purchase, I did not say what  
further evidence  I would require to be so satisfied. The Partnership considers that it has 
provided testimony of deals in the pipeline,  and it believes that I have accepted that 
evidence. It believes  that I am duty bound to accept the complainants  evidence unless I 
have evidence  to the contrary.
The Partnership does not believe it is fair or reasonable for me to expect them  to prove  
a negative, or to apply the criminal  standard of proof.
Ref: DRN49086864The Partnership has lost the rental income that it would have received had it been able 
to purchase the surgery and let it to the Company, and it has also lost capital  
appreciation. Similar issues apply to the second site. If the Partnership had had 
sufficient funds  to complete the deal in a timely  manner, it would have  benefitted from 
long term rental income  and capital appreciation.
my findings
I am satisfied that I have  taken into account  all of the evidence  including the Partnerships 
most recent correspondence  in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.   
I have not applied the criminal standard of proof.  I have simply considered whether the 
evidence available  to me demonstrates, on the balance of probability, that it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to make an award in excess of the amount AIB has already paid. 
Having done so, I am not satisfied that it would be fair or reasonable for me to make a 
further award. 
Overall, I have  reached the same conclusions as I did in my July 2019  provisional decision, 
for the same reasons   but I give further  explanation  below.
the margin issue
I note that in 2012, one of the partners told AIB that if he had been aware of two letters  AIB 
says it sent in February and April 2010,  he could  and would  have ensured  that cleared 
funds would be in the relevant accounts.  He did not claim  that the IRHP, or any other  issue, 
had left the Partnership unable to afford to maintain its obligations. 
I also note that AIB wrote to the Partnership in 2015 to make an offer in respect of the 
margin issues. It said:
Allied Irish Bank (GB) offers:
The sum of £134,975.06.
Reduction of interest rate margins from BBR +3.9% to BBR +1.9% with effect from 
31 October 2014.
This offer is made upon acceptance of the following conditions:
Without omissions or liability
Independent  from the IRHP Review or any other dispute
Full and Final settlement
Acceptance of the revised Facility  Letter  with amended interest rate mrgins.
[The Partnership] accept the Banks  ex gratia  payment  and agree to abide by the 
terms detailed above.
The partners in the Partnership signed AIBs acceptance form in respect  of the margin  issue 
in April 2015, and accepted its terms.
Ref: DRN49086865I consider that the banks offer was in full and final settlement of the margin issue.  I do not 
agree that the Partnerships acceptance  of that offer was in any way provisional.
However, acceptance of the offer did not prevent the Partnership from participating in the 
IRHP Review  and so the Partnership  retained  its right to complain about the sale of the 
IRHP. Similarly,  acceptance of the offer did not prevent the Partnership from pursuing any 
other dispute against AIB.
I acknowledge that the Partnership  strongly  disagrees with me, but I consider that its dispute 
with AIB about the margin issue  was resolved in 2015. I am satisfied that the margin issue  
was an entirely separate dispute  to the Partnerships  complaint about the IRHP.
the basic redress
In July 2014, the Partnership accepted AIBs offer of basic  redress  in respect of the interest 
rate swap.  Broadly, that redress was the difference between the payments the Partnership 
had actually made and the payments the Partnership would have made had it taken  the 
alterative cap. AIB paid interest at a rate of 8% per year simple  on that amount.
The Financial Conduct Authority has said:
As part of the IRHP  review, banks agreed  to pay 8% annual  simple interest (or 
identifiable cost that the customer incurred) on any redress  payments to reflect  lost 
opportunities. For most customers, given the economic context  over the past years, 
this has represented  a straightforward  and fair alternative to putting together 
consequential loss claims.
If customers believe their 'lost opportunity' costs amount to more than the 8% simple  
interest, they are able to put together a claim for consequential loss. All customers  
are invited to do this following the basic redress offer.
AIBs letter  of 11 April 2014, addressed  to the Partnership,  reflected the approach agreed 
with the FCA. AIB told the partners:
Compensation interest of £52,408.63 is an additional part of the redress hereby 
offered to the Business  and is calculated as 8% simple  interest  per annum on the net 
of the individual cash flows that form the Cashflow Replacement Sum as defined  in 
paragraph 2. This means an interest  payment  is made to the Business for the periods 
of time the Business  was impacted negatively  (the "Compensation interest Sum".  
This element of the Review Outcome  is provided to reflect the "lost opportunities" 
arising from the Business having made IRHP payments that it did not have to make.
I am therefore satisfied  that when the Partnership accepted AIBs offer of basic redress,  the 
partners were aware that AIBs interest  payment  was intended as a proxy for its lost 
opportunity costs.
I am not aware of anything in law that would prevent AIB from offering interest as a proxy  for 
consequential loss. But in any event, my task here is to reach an outcome  that I believe is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint.  I do not believe it would be fair 
or reasonable for me to disregard the interest  payment  AIB has already made. I would only 
make a further award if I was satisfied that the losses  the Partnership suffered as a result of 
the banks failings exceeded  the amount the bank has already paid.
Ref: DRN49086866consequential loss
As Ive said,  in considering the Partnerships claim for consequential losses,  I need to look at 
whether the banks failures actually caused  these losses. And if they did, I also need  to ask 
whether its fair to hold the bank  responsible  for the losses. To do this, Id need to ask whether 
the bank could reasonably foresee that its failures  would  result in losses  like these. In other 
words, Id need to be satisfied that the losses werent too remote  from the banks failings.
I acknowledge that if the Partnership  had taken a cap rather than a swap, it would  have had 
access to more funds  from 2007  onwards. I also acknowledge that the Partnership  is likely to have 
used those funds  in a way designed  to produce a return. But I am not satisfied that the losses  the 
Partnership suffered  as a result of AIBs errors  exceed the amounts AIB has already paid.
I know the Partnership would like me to set out the evidence I would need to see in order to 
make an award. But it isnt possible for me to do that. Complaints about  consequential loss 
are highly fact specific, and it would not be appropriate for me to be prescriptive about the 
evidence a complainant may use to demonstrate those losses. Instead,  the Financial 
Ombudsman Service gives  complainants the opportunity to provide the evidence  they 
believe is relevant,  and then considers that evidence. That is what I have done here. 
I accept that the Partnership was considering further  property purchases throughout the 
relevant period. But evidence that the Partnership was considering further purchases does 
not necessarily show  that the purchases would  have gone ahead but for the banks errors in 
respect of the swap.
In this case, the Partnerships evidence does  not persuade me that AIBs errors  in respect of 
the IRHP  were the reason the Partnership did not proceed with the property purchases it 
mentioned. I therefore  do not uphold the complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that AIB Group (UK) Plc has already done enough to compensate the 
Partnership. I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the Partnership to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 October  2019.
Laura Colman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4908686