K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that The Royal  Bank  of Scotland Plc, (RBS), mis-sold her a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance, (PPI), policy.
background
Ms A took the PPI at the same  time as taking  out a credit card in 1997. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Ms A disagreed  
the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive 
followed this in deciding  Ms As complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive, (as some of it is here),  I make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most  likely to have 
happened, in the light of the available  evidence and wider circumstances. 
Because of the time that has passed, neither  Ms A nor RBS has been  able to send us copies 
of the paperwork  signed at the time of the sale. Ms A has told us that to the best of her 
knowledge the policy was sold by post and RBS didnt make  a recommendation that she 
should take it out. Other than that, neither party has given us any detail of how this specific 
policy was sold. So Ive had to base my decision on what  information  I do have and what  we 
know generally about the way RBS sold PPI policies at the time.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  because:
Ms A says that RBS didnt tell her that the policy was optional.  However, the sale was 
over 20 years ago so I dont find that I can fairly rely just on her memory. And in the 
absence of any more persuasive  evidence, on balance I dont think that I can fairly and 
reasonably conclude that RBS didnt make it clear to Ms A that the PPI was optional;
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Ms A. This means that it didnt have to decide 
whether it was suitable for her needs.  It was up to Ms A to decide whether she wanted 
it or not in the light of her circumstances at the time.  However RBS did have to give Ms 
A clear, fair and not-misleading  information  so that she could make an informed 
decision. I dont  know what information  RBS gave Ms A. Its possible that it didnt tell 
her everything that she needed  to know. But in any event I find that the PPI was 
suitable for her because, based  on what I know about her circumstances at the time 
and the terms and conditions of the PPI which I think would have applied  to her :
oMs A was likely to have been eligible for the policy;
oThe policy was likely  to have been competitively priced by reference  to other similar  
policies available  in the market at the time and have had a reasonable benefit;
Ref: DRN43722782oIve seen nothing  to suggest  that the premiums were unaffordable  for Ms A. In any 
event had she later felt that she couldnt  afford the policy  or no longer wanted it 
because it was paid for monthly  she could have cancelled it at any time without 
further cost;
oMs A says that she was entitled to sick pay from her employer and that she had 
some savings.  But, following a successful claim,  the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to these  funds leaving them available to help meet  her other  expenses  
while she wasnt working because of accident,  sickness or unemployment. These 
payments would have  been 10% of her credit card balance  a month and would  
have been made for up to 12 months. So I find that the policy  could have been of 
use to her;
oMs A has told us that, although she was well at the time she took out the insurance, 
she had previously suffered from a complaint  which I think it was likely the policy 
wouldnt have covered. However,  she says that she had never  had to take time off 
work because of this complaint. So I dont think that had RBS told her about this 
limitation on her right to make a claim it would have  stopped  her taking the PPI. 
And Im not aware that Ms A was affected  by any of the policys  other  main  
restrictions and limitations such as those affecting someone who was self-
employed;
oSo I dont think that clearer information  would have changed Ms As mind and 
stopped her taking  the PPI. So Ms A hasnt lost out because of anything  that might  
have been wrong with RBS sales process. This means that theres nothing  that I 
require RBS to put right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4372278