K821x#15complaint
Miss S says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about eight payday  loans that Quick Quid provided to Miss S from 
February 2010 onwards. Miss S last loan was provided in December 2010.
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss S complaint  and thought that she shouldnt have been  provided 
with loans seven  and eight. Quick Quid disagreed. So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing in mind Quick  Quids response to our adjudicators  assessment, I think that it is 
important for me to start by saying that Quick  Quid was required to establish  whether Miss S 
could repay  her loans  in a sustainable  manner  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
Ref: DRN41281722This is because the Office  of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending Guidance  (ILG)  defines in 
a sustainable  manner as being  without undue difficulties and in particular without incurring or 
increasing problem  indebtedness,  over the life of the credit  agreement and out of income 
and/or available savings. 
So it follows  that if a lender realises, or it ought  fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower is unlikely  to be able be able to make their repayments in a sustainable manner if 
they have a history  of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss S complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Miss S, I think that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Miss S was unlikely to have been able to 
make her loan repayments in a sustainable  manner by the time it provided loan four. I say 
this because:
By this stage, Miss S had owed  Quick Quid money for a pretty much unbroken period 
of approaching 6 months. And she was provided  with significantly more than what  
shed been provided  with before. In my view, Miss S owing Quick  Quid money for this 
period of time, in these circumstances, was in itself a clear  demonstration  that Miss S 
mightve been struggling financially.   
Quick Quid allowing Miss S to take out this many loans, in these circumstances, for 
this period of time meant  that she was paying  large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, 
service an debt to Quick Quid over an extended  period. 
I think that Miss S lost out because  Quick Quid provided these loans because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss S indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of deferrals and the extended  period of time she owed Quick  Quid  money 
was likely to have  had negative  implications on Miss S ability to access mainstream 
credit and so kept her in the market  for these  high-cost loans.
So Im partially upholding Miss S complaint and Quick Quid should put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss S paid on loan seven;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
deduct all interest  and charges applied from the outset of loan eight from the current  
outstanding balance. An outstanding  balance  is likely to remain  even after all 
adjustments are made. So Quick Quid can deduct this outstanding balance  from the 
compensation it now needs to pay Miss S should it wish to do so;
Ref: DRN41281723the period  of time Miss S owed Quick  Quid money means that any information still 
recorded about loans four to eight  is adverse.  So all entries about loans seven and 
eight should be removed from Miss S credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Miss S a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss S complaint.  Casheuronet  UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Miss S compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4128172