K821x#15Complaint
Mr B complains that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) lent him money 
that he couldnt afford to repay.
Background
Mr B took out a running credit agreement and 30 instalment loans with Sunny between  
November 2014  and February 2016.
Mr B wants  Sunny  to refund the interest  and charges that he paid together  with interest on 
the refund.  Mr B wants Sunny to remove any negative information about  the loans from his 
credit file.
Before this service became involved, Sunny offered to refund  interest  and charges on the 
running credit agreement and first instalment loan that Mr B took out in December 2014.
The adjudicator recommended Mr Bs complaint be upheld  in part. The adjudicator thought  
that Sunny should not have agreed loans six to 31.
The adjudicator recommended that Sunny remove loans six to 31 entirely from Mr Bs credit  
file. The adjudicator also recommended that Sunny refund the interest and charges that Mr B 
had paid on the affected loans.
Sunny disagrees  with the adjudicators view. It says it asked Mr B for details of his monthly 
income and all outgoings  including short term lending commitments.
Sunny says that it offers customers a flexible product that means they can choose  to take 
out more than one loan at a time.
Sunny points to the fact that Mr B repaid a number of loans early as an indication that he 
was using the loans as intended and could afford to repay them  without any difficulty.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
Ref: DRN48027992the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr B could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as 
being without  undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
As Mr B hasnt  objected  to the adjudicators recommendation not to uphold his complaint 
about loans three to five, I wont say anything further  about these and instead will 
concentrate on loans six to 31.
Loans six to 31
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr B, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point  at which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should  have  realised that it shouldnt 
have given Mr B any more loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
six. I say this because  the overall  pattern of Mr Bs borrowing suggested that hed become 
persistently reliant  on short term loans.
Loan six was the sixth loan that Mr B had taken out in just over three  months. And loan five 
was still running when Mr B applied  for loan six. Sunny could see a history of Mr B applying  
for a new loan on the same day as settling the previous loan.
Ref: DRN48027993I think this pattern of lending was an indication that Mr B might be having  difficulties 
managing his money and was using short term loans for everyday  living  costs rather  than 
one-off expenses.
Mr B continued to take new lending that overlapped with a previous loan. So Sunny should 
have realised that was more likely  than not Mr B was reliant on short term lending and 
needed to borrow  further to fill the hole repaying  his previous loans was leaving in his 
finances. 
Although the amounts that Mr B borrowed sometimes fluctuated, he often had two loans 
open at the same time.  For example, although  loan seven  was for £150  Mr B went  on to 
borrow a further  £850 before the end of the same month.  So  Mr B wasnt  making  any real 
inroads into what he owed Sunny and his indebtedness was being prolonged. This meant 
that Mr B had been paying large  amounts of interest to, in effect;  service  a debt to Sunny 
over a long period.
I think that Mr B lost out because Sunny continued  to lend money  from loan six onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time he owed Sunny money was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Bs ability to access mainstream  credit  and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about loans six to 31.
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr B paid on loans one and two and loans six to 31;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
remove any negative information  about loans one and two from Mr Bs credit file; and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six means that any information  about loans 
six to 31 is negative. So all entries about loans six to 31 should be removed from Mr Bs 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and direct  Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Ref: DRN48027994Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.  
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4802799