complaint
Mr T complains that Copia Wealth Management Ltd (Copia) gave him unsuitable  advice 
when it advised  him to transfer his personal pensions and a section 32 buy-out policy into 
a self-invested personal pension plan (SIPP).  He also complains that Copia 
recommended he invest  in a high-risk discretionary managed portfolio, which  he says 
wasnt suitable in his circumstances.
background
In January 2015, Mr Ts existing pension provider sent details of his three  pension  plans 
to an appointed representative of Copia. He had two personal pensions and a S32 buy-
out policy, together valued at around  £93,500.  Guaranteed annuity  rates  applied  to some 
of these policies.
One of Copias appointed  representatives met with Mr T in February 2015. It completed a 
fact find interview and recorded that he was a 56 year old married, self-employed builder, 
earning around £24,000 per annum net. It noted  he intended to retire  at 70, although not 
necessarily working full-time up that point. It also recorded that his home  was mortgaged.  
The notes showed  that Mr T had no investments or other assets. He had a loan for 
£40,000 taken  out in 2011, payable over 265 months (22+ years). The paperwork 
indicated that Mr T had previously had a judgment debt or loan default registered against  
him. Also, he had either  been declared  bankrupt, or made an arrangement with his 
creditors. Further, he had failed to keep up payments under a current  or previous, 
mortgage, rent or loan agreement.
The interview notes  showed that Mr T wanted to take tax-free cash from his pensions to 
build an extension on his home. The notes said Mr T said he couldn't obtain  the money 
elsewhere because  he had a bad credit  history.  
Mr Ts attitude  to investment risk (ATR) was assessed as being Balanced.  Copia said that 
Mr T found the idea of discretionary  fund management exciting as it would give a greater 
opportunity for improved  growth. It was noted  that the adviser  told Mr T he would lose 
valuable  guarantees,  if he transferred  his policies.  
The notes also recorded that the adviser  discussed  the new pensions freedoms legislation  
coming into force in April 2015 with Mr T. In response Mr T said that still having a mortgage  
made him very uncomfortable. But, if the change allowed him flexibility to access ad hoc or 
lump sum payments from his pension to reduce  his mortgage debt, that was vitally  
important.
Prior to receiving the written suitability report, at the first face to face meeting with the 
adviser, Mr T signed a Lifetime  SIPP application.  He agreed to pay an initial advice 
fee of 3% and an ongoing  fee of 0.5%. He appointed  'SVS/Smile'  as investment  
manager. On the SIPP  application  form completed by Mr T, Copia signed to say that it 
had provided financial  advice on the suitability of the SIPP, the funding  of the SIPP,  and 
the suitability of the investments being made.
Mr T signed a SVS Securities application  form on 19 February 2015. He appointed 
Independent Portfolio Managers Limited  (IPM) trading as SMILe  Global Management as 
attorney, to manage  the portfolio through SVS Securities. He agreed to pay 1.5% per 
annum, and a 30% performance  fee. This application stated that Mr T had traded shares 
Ref: DRN44101242and bonds frequently over the previous  three years, and that he could trade FX, CFDs, 
shares and futures  with SVS.
Copia produced  a suitability report on 26 February  2015. It recommended  Mr T transfer 
to the Lifetime  SIPP, and SMILe's 'Broad Based  Property Portfolio  Plus'.  The model  
portfolio asset  allocation  was described as follows:
Asset Allocation 45-75% weighted into Shares and Bonds
commercial  and residential rental and acquisitions;
property development land accumulation for building  on or selling to 
businesses and or local councils such as hotels,  housing estates, shopping 
malls and social housing;
asset backed finance and short term bridging finance;
term bonds with bi-annual yield.
Asset Allocation 15-30% into Shares
green  energy.
Asset Allocation 15-25% into Shares and Bonds
sectors such as but not limited to Services,  Industrials, Consumers, 
Financials, Telecoms, Media  and Technology  Resources
cash.
Mr T accepted Copias advice and went ahead  with the transfers. He took tax-free  cash  of 
£23,362.42 and £65,500 was invested in the SVS portfolio. Copias  advice fee was paid out 
of the transferred funds.
It's unclear whether  the portfolio was managed by SMILe or SVS subsequently. According to a 
statement dated 21 June  2016 from SVS, Mr Ts portfolio was invested  as follows:
Advanced Oncotherapy PLC £ 1, 772.51
Angelfish Investments  PLC £ 8, 000.00
Gem Diamonds £ 3, 090.04
OC Finance SA 5.95% bond £25,263.09
OC Finance SA 6.25% bond £25,315.58
Sainsburys £  2,860.26
Cash £     711.77
Total £67,013.25
It seems  the liquid investments in Mr Ts portfolio were sold in September 2017. £12,324.69  
was paid into his SIPP bank account. A SVS statement shows  that shortly afterward the 
portfolio was invested as follows:
Angelfish Investments  PLC £  8,000.00
OC Finance SA 5.95% bond £24,330.16
OC Finance SA 6.25% bond £24,354.02
Total £56,684.18
In October  2017, £11,766.45 was further invested. I understand that the illiquid  investments 
were transferred in specie  at this time.
Ref: DRN44101243IPM had its authorisation  removed on 21 June  2018. 
Through his representative Mr T complained first to Copia  (who didnt respond) and then to this 
service about the suitability of the advice  hed received from Copias appointed representative.
In July 2019, whilst this service was investigating Mr Ts complaint,  SVS's  permissions were  
restricted, and it subsequently went into administration. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ts complaint concluding,  in summary, that both the recommendation 
to transfer into the SIPP  and to invest in the discretionary managed  portfolio were  unsuitable. 
Copia disagreed with our adjudicators view.  It said, in summary:
when assessing  Mr Ts attitude to risk (ATR) he answered the questions  as he saw 
fit and it then carried out the risk assessment using  its electronic system;
the regulated  discretionary  fund manager  had total control over the products he 
advised on with a medium risk profile;
the information provided on the application  forms was agreed with Mr T;
it did not sign him up to the SIPP at the first appointment, there had been a number 
of telephone calls prior to that; and
Mr T wasnt shoe-horned, as the adjudicator  had said, into the SIPP or these 
investments.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr Ts complaint comes to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so, my conclusions  are largely the same  as 
our adjudicators.  I therefore uphold Mr Ts complaint.
It seems  clear  that Mr Ts primary motivation for obtaining pensions advice was because he 
wanted to take some  tax-free cash to build  an extension on his home. 
Mr Ts representative  said it mightve  been  feasible to transfer only the two personal 
pensions, leaving the section 32 buy-out policy and its guarantees in place. I havent  been 
provided with any details of the cost of the building works. This information  wasnt  included  in 
the fact find. The section  32 policy had a transfer  value of around £21,500. His two personal 
pensions had a transfer value of around £72,000,  so the tax-free cash from the two personal 
pensions alone  wouldve  been approximately £18,000.
Mr Ts adviser  pointed out that he lost his Guaranteed Minimum Pensions as a result  of 
transferring the buy out policy. However  given  that he was able to transfer out, I think  it likely 
that the transfer value would, in principle, have  been enough to broadly support equivalent 
benefits.  So, I cant  see that Mr T has lost out because  of losing  his Guaranteed  Minimum  
Pension.
Having  looked  at the notes  of the fact find interview  and the suitability  report  they are, in 
my view,  light on detail.  I cant  see how the adviser  couldve  made  a properly  informed  
assessment  based  upon  the information  set out. For example,  theres  little information  
Ref: DRN44101244about  Mr Ts regular  expenditure  (just a total),  not very much  information  about  his 
mortgage  (ie whether  it was a repayment  or interest  only mortgage)  yet repaying  this 
mortgage  was an important  issue  for Mr T. Mr Ts likely  income  needs  in retirement  are 
not identified.  As mentioned  above,  theres  no information  about  the amount  of tax free 
cash  Mr T considered  he needed  for the extension.  I also cant  see that Copia  properly  
discussed  Mr Ts existing  pension  arrangements  with him. I cant  see that they discussed  
the guaranteed  minimum  pension,  any spousal  benefits,  the annual  bonus,  the final 
bonus,  or the with profits  element  of the policy.  Losing  valuable  guarantees  was 
mentioned,  but not in detail.
The suitability  letter said Mr T had a strong  knowledge of investments.  But it seems this 
assessment was based on him having  an investment or pension  contract. His pension 
policies appeared to be with profits policies and it didnt appear from the fact find that he 
had any other investments. I understand that the statement on SVSs  application was 
incorrect, it said that Mr T had frequently traded  securities over the previous three years.  I 
cant see evidence of Mr T selecting  investments himself or having the experience to do so. 
I have also taken into account that the SIPP related costs were  considerably  higher  than the 
costs Mr T wouldve  had to pay had he kept his original policies.
Based on what I have seen, I dont  believe  the evidence is persuasive to show  that the 
recommendation to transfer to a SIPP was suitable in Mr Ts circumstances. Nor can I see that 
the adviser collected or presented sufficient information to demonstrate that he could properly 
advise Mr T as to the suitability of this recommendation. 
Looking at the particular investments proposed, and taking into account  Mr Ts individual 
circumstances, these  dont appear to me to be suitable investments for someone in his 
situation. They appeared to be high risk investments,  for example AIM listed shares and illiquid  
fixed interest securities issued by smaller  companies.
The adviser had to take into account Mr Ts capacity for loss, in addition to his attitude  to risk 
when advising Mr T. He was 56 years old, a modest earner, intending to reduce his working  
hours pre retirement, finding it hard to access credit with a poor credit  history.  Given his age 
and wider circumstances, I think he wouldve had limited opportunity to recover significant  
losses.  Fairly assessed, it seems to me, Mr T didnt  have the capacity for loss to take the 
significant risks recommended. I dont  think  the portfolio was suitable for him, and I believe 
this wouldve been apparent from the information  the adviser did collect.
I also agree  with our adjudicator, there were some  inconsistencies in the questions Mr T 
responded to in the paperwork used to assess his ATR. These  inconsistencies werent 
explored further. In these circumstances,  Im not persuaded that his ATR was properly and 
fairly assessed.
The SIPP and portfolio appear  to have been recommended  at the first face to face meeting 
with the adviser  and prior to the suitability letter being sent out. I think  it likely that there  
wouldve been some  previous  discussion  between  the appointed representative and Mr T, 
perhaps by phone as Copia  suggests.  That may be why Copias appointed representative was 
sent details of Mr Ts pensions in advance of the meeting. However, given that at the time Mr 
T was asked to complete the SIPP and portfolio paperwork, he hadnt seen the suitability 
letter, I cant say with any confidence that Mr T was in a position  to make an informed choice 
to follow  the advisers  recommendation,  based  on what was discussed alone.  
Ref: DRN44101245Looked at overall, I consider that the financial losses Mr T suffered  were a reasonably 
foreseeable consequence of Copia's unsuitable advice,  and in the circumstances  Copia 
ought fairly to compensate Mr T for those  losses.
I also consider that this has caused  some upset  to Mr Ts retirement planning and that Copia  
should pay him £300 for the trouble and upset caused. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr T as close as possible  to 
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr T would still have transferred  at least some of his funds, but would have invested 
differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what he would have done, but I am satisfied that 
what I have set out below is fair and reasonable  given Mr T's circumstances  and objectives 
when he invested.
what should  Copia do?
To compensate Mr T fairly Copia should:
Compare the performance of Mr T's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value,  no 
compensation is payable.
Copia  should  also pay any interest  set out below.
If there  is a loss, Copia should  pay into Mr T's pension  plan, to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation  and any interest. Copias payment should  
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Copia shouldn't pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance.
If Copia  is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr T's pension plan, Copia should  
pay that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using  Mr Ts actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr T is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction  would  equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr T 
would have been able to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Copia should pay Mr T £300 for the distress and inconvenience  
caused.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr T in a clear, simple format.
Ref: DRN44101246Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Copia considers that it is required  by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income  tax from that interest, Copia should tell Mr T how much 
Copias taken off. Copia  should  also give Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment name
status Benchmarkfrom
("start date")to
("end date")additional interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index
date of 
investmentdate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means  the transfer value  of the SIPP at the end date.
If, at the end date,  any investment in the SIPP is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily  sold on 
the open market),  it may be difficult to find the actual value of the SIPP.  So, the value of any 
such investment should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Copia should  take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  
provider. This amount  should be deducted  from the compensation  and the balance paid as 
above.
If Copia are unable  to purchase the illiquid investment its value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. Copia may wish to require that Mr T provides an undertaking to pay 
Copia any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would  be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension  
plan. Copia will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the SIPP would have been worth at the end date had it grown in line with the 
benchmark. The start value is £90,646.19, being  the total of the transfer values less the initial 
adviser charge.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when  it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP (e.g. tax-free cash) should be 
deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  
in the calculation from that point  on.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
 Mr T wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept some  investment risk.
Ref: DRN44101247 The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
 Although it is called an income  index, the mix and diversification provided  within  the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ts circumstances  and attitude  to risk.
further information
Some examples of how the calculation should be carried out are available  on our website 
under Publications I Online Technical Resource I Investment I Calculating compensation in 
investment complaints.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint. I order Copia Wealth  
Management Ltd to pay Mr T fair compensation as calculated above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4410124