K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Tesco Personal Finance  Plc trading as Tesco  Bank failed to carry out 
a chargeback for the full amount of a disputed holiday payment.
background
Mrs S paid a deposit for a holiday for her and her husband. She paid the deposit and later 
decided to cancel  the holiday.  Mrs S says that Tesco authorised the full holiday payment 
which it should not have done.  She says the holiday contract was unfair  and not enforceable 
and Tesco by its actions  are supporting that. Mrs S says Tescos actions have caused her 
stress and were unfair.
Tesco says it acted  fairly and it cant say if a contract is unfair.  It says Mrs S authorised  the 
holiday company  to take a payment but raised a chargeback when aware of the dispute. 
Tesco says it did not claim the full amount  as it says it was clear  that Mrs S would have been 
liable for a cancellation fee. It says the cancellation fee as set out in the contract was £994  
and so made the chargeback for £2,880 which it says was successful and says a more 
realistic approach stood  a greater chance  of success.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold it and thought Tesco had 
acted fairly.  The investigator didnt  think  we could comment on the actions of the holiday 
company or determine if the contract was unfair. The investigator thought  Tesco hadnt 
made a mistake in authorising the payment and had acted fairly by claiming the amount it did 
under the chargeback scheme.
Mrs S doesnt accept that view and says she didnt authorise the payment  in the first place 
and says the issue of unfair contracts  needs  looking at. She says it was unfair of Tesco to 
look at an unfair contract and decide if a cancelation fee was likely to be paid and such  
actions facilitate fraud.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mrs S will be disappointed  by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly she feels about whats taken  place.  I also confirm that although I 
have summarised her complaint I have read all of her letters to us and to the various  other 
parties linked  to this complaint. And I hope  Mrs S appreciates that I can only look at the 
actions of Tesco here and not those of the holiday company. I also cant  determine  if a 
contract is unfair as such maters would be for a court to determine.
I can see that Mrs S paid a deposit for a holiday and also agreed to the holiday terms and 
conditions. I appreciate that Mrs S says that contract  was unfair  but I dont think  such  
cancellation clauses  are unusual and I think that Mrs S ought  to have known that by 
cancelling the holiday then there  may be the possibility of charges.
I dont think Tesco made a mistake by authorising  the payment and I dont think it could have 
known that Mrs S was for example in dispute  with the holiday company or had cancelled the 
holiday. Im satisfied that Tesco acted in good faith at that point.
The investigator has explained the chargeback process and rules. Im satisfied that Tesco  
raised a chargeback and the key question is if it should have raised it for the full amount or 
Ref: DRN48187962that amount  less the cancellation  costs. Im satisfied Tesco  took a fair and reasonable 
approach that was realistic in the circumstances. I have set out that I think  such cancellation 
charges are usual and that it was highly  likely  that a full chargeback  claim would have been 
unsuccessful. So I dont think Tesco acted unfairly  or made a mistake by looking at the 
cancelation terms and deciding on the approach it did which I can see was successful.
I accept Mrs S makes a number  of other  points  about the approach of the holiday company 
and the issue  of fraud. I hope I have explained why I cant  comment on such  matters.
Overall Im satisfied that Tesco acted  fairly  and tried to assist Mrs S in a realistic manner. 
And that Mrs Ss main complaint is against the holiday company and her view of its contract.  
Mrs S of course  is free to pursue that part of her complaint elsewhere.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4818796