K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains that TSB Bank  plc (TSB) have not offered her fair compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused as a result of poor communication  around  fraudulent  
activity on her accounts and delay in being able to use a debit card.
background
In or around November  2018 funds were  removed from Mrs Ks account. TSB refunded the 
transactions but accept there  was a lack of communication  about this activity,  for which  they 
have apologised. 
TSB also accept there was a delay in issuing  a replacement debit card due to a system error 
and accept that Mrs K was unable to use her debit  card for around one month,  which caused 
difficulty in the lead up to the Christmas  period. Its not disputed that Mrs K spent a lot of 
time on the phone to TSB about these matters and she suffered further distress by being 
unable to access her online banking.
TSB acknowledge  that Mrs K failed to pass security  over the phone,  which resulted in her 
having to visit a branch with ID to restore access to the account. They say this was a 
reasonable security  measure.
Mrs K says these matters caused  her significant  upset and inconvenience. She had to 
borrow funds, had to rely upon third parties to take her to branch and worried about  what  
was happening to her accounts.
TSB accept that errors were made and theyve agreed to compensate Mrs K for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused. Theyve paid Mrs K £375 for distress  and inconvenience and 
£50 for expenses. Mrs K feels strongly  that this doesnt fairly compensate for the distress 
she suffered.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She agreed there  were  shortcomings by TSB and 
thought it would be fair and reasonable to compensate Mrs K for the upset and 
inconvenience she had suffered. Overall  she recommended an increase in compensation to 
a global  figure  of £500.
Mrs K says this is inadequate compensation for the upset  she suffered. She would like TSB 
to increase their offer further. 
As the parties do not agree, the matter has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB accept some  failings  on their part and agree it would  be fair and reasonable to 
compensate Mrs K for the distress  and inconvenience she suffered. The issue  for me to 
determine is how much  compensation is appropriate in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN40881792I think its helpful if I explain that our service  has no regulatory or disciplinary role. That 
means we have no punitive powers.  We provide an informal dispute resolution service, 
where we assess each case on its own facts and make awards  of compensation that are fair 
and reasonable.
Ive thought carefully about the circumstances in this complaint. I understand that Mrs K was 
upset to discover there had been activity  on her accounts and I appreciate she was 
concerned about  the lack of communication from TSB. This was undoubtedly  a distressing 
time. The situation was then made  worse by Mrs K being unable to access  the funds in her 
account. Whilst I understand Mrs Ks frustration in having to attend the branch to provide ID, 
I cant say that was an unreasonable step,  given that a telephone security check had failed.
Mrs K has given  an honest and plausible explanation  about  the impact  this situation had on 
her and the implications  for her health.  Ive also taken into account that Mrs K incurred 
expense in calling TSB.  
Overall, it is my view that £500  in total is a fair and reasonable sum to compensate for the 
distress and inconvenience suffered by Mrs K and to compensate for the expenses she 
incurred. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs K, but I wont be asking TSB to do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am upholding this complaint. TSB Bank plc should  pay Mrs K a total 
of £500, (credit should be given for any sums already paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
 
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4088179