K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that a Dynamic Currency Conversion was carried  out without his knowledge  
when he made a purchase  abroad with his travel money card issued by First Rate  Exchange 
Services Ltd (FRES). To put things right he wants them to reimburse him the additional 
€19.26 this transaction cost him.
background
Mr H travelled abroad with his multi-currency travel money card, issued by FRES. He loaded 
euros onto the card,  and on the 10th September 2018 he used it to make  a payment to a 
merchant. The payment cost him more than he expected,  so he complained to FRES. 
FRES explained that the payment had been  subject to a Dynamic  Currency Conversion 
(DCC), which meant  that the merchant  had used its own exchange  rate to convert the 
amount of the local currency he was paying  into sterling. 
Mr H was unhappy about this. He explained  to FRES that he had made payments to the 
same merchant before,  and that they had always quoted him prices in euros,  and he had 
always paid them in euros. He said that on this occasion he authorised a transaction in 
euros, and there was no mention of the payment being taken in sterling. He asked FRES to 
reimburse him the additional €19.26 that the payment cost him as a result of the currency 
conversion. He said they hadnt stated in any of their literature  that DCC could occur without 
his knowledge  and consent.  So he didnt think it was fair that this had happened.
FRES explained that the retailer had requested the payment in sterling,  and this is why the 
transaction was subject  to the DCC. They said that they couldnt  refund Mr H €19.26 as this 
wasnt a charge they had made.  But they did refund him the €6.26 fee that they had taken 
when funds were moved from his euro wallet to his sterling wallet  to complete the 
transaction.
Mr H wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our 
adjudicator didnt think that FRES  had done anything wrong. They felt that the additional  
charge wasnt due to FRES, so it wouldnt be fair to ask them  to refund it.
Mr H disagrees  with this view. He thinks that FRES  owed him a duty of care, and that they 
either knew that a transaction could  have been subject to DCC without his knowledge  in 
which case they should have made him aware  this could happen. Or they failed to undertake 
sufficient checks to realise that this could happen  themselves. He feels  its unfair that he 
used their card correctly, but has been  financially disadvantaged as a result.  
The case  has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr H will be disappointed,  but I 
dont think FRES have done  anything wrong here. So I wont  be asking them to reimburse 
him the €19.26 he has requested. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN46313902Ill start by briefly summarising  what DCC is. When a card payment is made overseas, the 
merchant may give the purchaser the option  to pay in local currency,  or the currency of the 
country the card was issued in. If the purchaser  chooses the latter option, the merchant 
converts the amount of the transaction at the point of sale,  using their own exchange  rate.
I appreciate Mr H feels strongly that he authorised  the merchant to take a payment of €350. 
He had euros loaded onto his travel money  card, and expected the payment  to be deducted 
from his euros wallet. Hes provided a receipt dated  the 10th September  2018,  and time 
stamped 18:44  local time, that he was given by the merchant.  This receipt  shows  a figure of 
€350, and doesnt appear to reference  sterling. So its understandable  that he thought  this 
was the amount he had paid. Though I note it also doesnt make any reference  to (any part 
of) the card number  issued by FRES to Mr H.
However FRES have  shown us that they received a request from the same merchant on the 
same date at 16:58 UK time (18:58  local time), for a payment  of £322.29. Mr H did not have 
any money in his sterling wallet, so FRES  transferred money from his euro wallet  to his 
sterling wallet to meet  the payment. 
The terms and conditions  for Mr Hs card state  that if a transaction is made in a currency that 
does not have a sufficient  available balance, FRES  will move the value of the transaction 
from another wallet that does, at their standard  wallet to wallet  exchange rate. So Im 
satisfied that FRES acted  correctly when they did this. Though unfortunately for Mr H this 
meant that his transaction was effectively subject to double currency  conversion as it was 
converted from euros into sterling, and then back to euros. 
I understand Mr H is frustrated that this payment was requested in sterling without his 
consent. And I cant say for certain  how this happened. But the evidence  Ive seen shows 
that the retailer requested the payment in sterling   whether they did this intentionally  or not. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  FRES made an error here. They  followed the 
payment request they received from the merchant, and applied  their account terms and 
conditions correctly. 
DCC rules are set out by the card scheme, not the card issuer  so its not governed  by 
FRES. I agree with Mr H that under these rules he should have been given the choice to pay 
in local currency. But its not FRESs fault he wasnt. I appreciate  he thinks that they should 
have made  him aware that a DCC could be undertaken without his knowledge. But I dont  
think it would  be fair to expect FRES to foresee that a merchant might not follow the DCC 
rules correctly. I can see that FRES take steps to make customers  aware of DCC and give 
them advice about how to avoid it. So I think that they have fulfilled their duty towards Mr H 
here by making  him aware  of DCC and how it operates.
Im sorry  that Mr H has lost money.  But I cant fairly ask FRES  to pay it back  as I dont think 
its their fault. FRES have  already chosen  to refund Mr H the fee they did charge him. They  
have reimbursed the 2% fee he was charged  for the wallet to wallet transaction when funds 
were moved from his euro wallet to his sterling wallet to be able to make the payment. So I 
think they have  acted fairly and reasonably here.  
Ref: DRN46313903my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  First Rate Exchange Services Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4631390