K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr B had one loan with Satsuma, commencing  21 July 2017. He borrowed £120  and it was 
repayable over three months in instalments  of about  £59 per month.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld.  Mr B didnt 
agree so the complaint  was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Bs case.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  his loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Bs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ive seen that Satsuma  assessed Mr Bs income  and expenditure when  he applied for the 
loan. Mr B declared income  of £1,200 per month.  Satsuma  recorded expenditure of £418 per 
month, which included  zero housing expenditure and financial commitments  of £350. This 
left disposable  income of £782 per month.  Satsuma also applied various buffers and 
safeguards to reduce Mr Bs disposable  income  to a lower figure for the purposes of 
assessing the affordability of the loan.  
I think Satsumas checks were  proportionate  in the circumstances  of the loan and its 
decision to lend was reasonable.  It was reasonable for Satsuma to lend on the basis of the 
information provided by Mr B and this information suggested the loan was affordable.
Im sorry  to hear Mr B was suffering from poor mental health at the time. But Ive not seen 
that Satsuma was (or ought to have been) aware  of this before it lent to him. So I cant  fairly 
say this is something which shouldve affected Satsumas decision to lend.
As Ive found Satsumas  checks were proportionate  and its decision to lend was reasonable, 
I am unable  to uphold  Mr Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN42240262my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Bs complaint against Provident Personal Credit  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4224026