K820x#14complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is that AFH Independent  Financial  Services  Limited  (AFH) transferred her 
Stocks and Shares Individual  Savings  Account (ISA) prematurely and without her full 
commitment to the transfer. She says its value was then returned  to her with a deficit  of 
around £850, which resulted from AFHs deducted fees. She wants  a refund of the deficit.
 
background
Available evidence  suggests the following chronology:
Mrs B appears, previously, to have had a personal portfolio and the ISA with a 
different firm. That firm was taken over by AFH around May 2018 and AFH arranged  
for one of its independent financial advisers (IFAs) to meet  with and introduce its 
service to her. At the outset, in May, AFH wrote to Mrs B to confirm  that there  would 
be no change in the charges that previously  applied  to her account(s). However, 
there is evidence of her signing and agreeing  to AFHs Client  Agreement  Document 
on 25 July which set out AFHs charging  structure. It appears that Mrs B met the IFA 
around this time.
Mrs B appears to have met the IFA again  on 3 October. On that date she signed 
AFHs Direct Investors Terms  of Business, Schedule 1 of its Discretionary Service  
Agreement, its related Fee Agreement, a declaration of receipt of a financial planning 
report (of 1 October) and an ISA Transfer application form. Mrs B says there was an 
element of undue  pressure  in her signing of these documents  some or all of which  
she recalls as being blank when signed   because  the IFA was unreliable in keeping  
appointments and she felt pressured to make  the meeting meaningful  by getting  the 
paperwork signed. She says she received relevant information about  the service,  
transfer and associated fees only after the documents were signed   which is when  
she realised the fees that applied were not the fees that were  discussed and sought 
to cancel the service.  AFH does  not agree with this account.
On 12 October it appears that the ISA transfer  application was actioned.  On 22 
October Mrs B contacted the IFA to cancel the service. In addition to the ISA the 
service was also meant to cater for the transfer  of a personal portfolio  which  had not 
taken place at the time and which is not the subject of the present complaint. AFH 
says the ISA transfer was completed by 22 October, that the agreed initial advice 
charge had been applied  to it and that the charge  had been  partly offset by a gain 
that the transferred ISA had already made at the time  nevertheless around £850 
form the charge  remained to be deducted  from the ISA. In response to Mrs Bs 
cancellation request the ISA was liquidated and its cash value  (net of the initial 
advice charge) was refunded to her on 5 November. 
AFH did not uphold  Mrs Bs complaint, it maintained that it acted upon her express signed 
agreements and instructions and that the agreed terms entitled it to payment of the initial  
advice charge that it deducted, irrespective of her cancellation of the service. The matter 
was referred to this service and addressed by one of our adjudicators,  who agreed with 
AFHs position for broadly the same  reasons it gave and who concluded that the complaint 
should not be upheld.
Mrs B said she understood that the adjudicator was guided  by available  documentation  but 
the documents do not tell the full or true story.  She referred to discussions with the IFA in 
Ref: DRN41970802which both sides were  clear that, despite  the signed  agreements, she was not fully 
committed to the transfer(s) and that she needed more information  and the quoted fee(s) to 
be reduced before proceeding. In response, the adjudicator tried to obtain telephone call 
recordings of the discussions but AFH confirmed that none exist because  the discussions 
with the IFA took place  over her mobile phone  Mrs B accepts this is probably true as the 
IFA could not be reached during working hours  and their discussions mainly happened  
outside office hours when the IFA was probably at home and using the mobile  phone. 
The adjudicator expressed some  empathy  with Mrs Bs position in the matter  but concluded 
that without reason to doubt  documentary  evidence he had to give weight to it and the 
balance of said evidence  does not support Mrs Bs complaint. The matter was then referred 
to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I have reached  the same  conclusion as the adjudicator for the same 
reasons. I too empathise with Mrs Bs position  and I do not necessarily  suggest  that her 
recollection of events is wrong but there is such significant weight in the documentary  
evidence  which she signed at the relevant  time(s)   that the relevant documents  simply 
cannot be ignored. I am also not persuaded that her recollection outweighs the documents, 
especially as she does  not dispute signing them.
I note Mrs Bs assertion  that the documents on 3 October were  signed under undue pressure 
and that some were  blank. However, no such assertion appears to exist for the client  
agreement signed  in July. The agreement included a section on fees which conveys fee 
related information  about initial and ongoing charges that does not appear to be inconsistent  
with the charges stated in the 3 October documents. The implication is that Mrs B knew, 
before 3 October,  what the fee structure was. I appreciate this might  well not be an area of 
dispute as it appears  that Mrs B concedes some  awareness of the charges  that applied  but 
she says she sought to get a reduction  before proceeding further. 
On balance, I am persuaded that if both parties were  committed  to considering a reduction  in 
charges, the documents that reflected charges which had not been  reduced would not have 
been presented  or signed  or ought not reasonably to have been presented or signed. 
Mrs B says she considers  that it was her mistake to sign the documents  in such 
circumstances and I agree. However,  the problem  for her is that her signatures confirm her 
consent at the relevant time to the service and to the transfer. Even  if, as she says,  there  
was outstanding information she had not received at the time of signing, she does appear  to 
accept that her signatures were given on her understanding  that the charges would be 
reduced. There is no evidence that AFH or the IFA shared the same  understanding  and 
unfortunately telephone  recordings are not available to assist in this regard. The conclusion 
that follows is that the understanding is in dispute, it cannot be resolved in the absence of 
evidence that tips the balance in one way or another and what  remains is evidence of Mrs B 
agreeing to the service and transfer  on the terms presented by AFH. The initial advice 
charge that was deducted appears to have been  consistent with the agreed terms and those 
terms also reserved AFHs right to that payment even if its recommendation was not 
proceeded with  or even  if its service  was cancelled. As it says, it was a charge to cover 
advice work  that had already been performed. Merit in Mrs Bs position  might have been 
Ref: DRN41970803different if the agreed terms did not reserve such a right or if they did not include express 
reference to the specific  charge that AFH then applied.
Mrs B put to the adjudicator  a query  about  her right to a cooling off. He noted that her right in 
that respect   to a 30 days cooling off period  had not been compromised, however AFHs 
entitlement to the initial advice charge for its advice work remained nevertheless.  I agree and 
as I said directly above, it was an agreed  charge that applied  whether (or not) the 
recommendation was proceeded  with or the service was cancelled.  It appears that AFH 
acted within  Mrs Bs right to a cooling off period  by cancelling or reversing the ISA transfer  
upon her request.
Overall and on balance,  I do not consider there is sufficient ground for AFH to refund the 
deficit that Mrs B seeks to recover.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4197080