K820x#14Complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Miss G says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2001.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Miss G owed on her store card.  The policy  would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Miss G couldnt  work 
because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy  also provided life cover  
as well as price and purchase  protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Miss G that the policy was optional and get her consent before  
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Miss G says the PPI wasnt discussed with her and she 
was just told where to sign on the form, without any explanation. So she says it was added  
without her knowledge or consent.
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed by Miss G at the time of the sale 
and I can see that there is a section to apply for Account Cover  the name  used by FICL  
for PPI. In this section it says you should only sign if you want to take out Account Cover. 
Miss G has signed the section to confirm she wanted the cover. If Miss G didnt  want to take 
out the PPI she could  have left this section  blank. And Miss G has signed the overall  
application form which suggests it reflected what she wanted. 
Miss G has told us that the sales person  indicated  on the form where she had to sign and 
didnt tell her what she was signing for  she was under the impression that she signed  for 
the store card only and nothing else. Whilst I appreciate her comments, Miss G was making  
an application for additional  credit  and I would have expected her to have  read through the 
form before  she signed it. And if she didnt want to take out the PPI, I think she would have 
raised this with the sales person at the time.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Miss G 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
Ref: DRN43451262From looking  at the paperwork supplied,  I dont think FICL recommended the policy  to 
Miss G. So it didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need to make  
sure it gave Miss G clear  enough information about the policy  to enable  her to decide  for 
herself if she should take the policy. 
Its possible  the information FICL gave Miss G about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Miss G 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or suffering from any medical  conditions  of 
which she was already aware.
Miss G has told us she didnt need the policy as she was entitled  to at least three months  full 
sick pay. But this policy would have paid out until Miss G returned to work or until the 
outstanding balance was repaid  whichever came  first. And it would have paid out in 
addition to, and potentially for longer  than,  her sick pay. It would also have provided cover if 
she was to have  lost her job. While I note Miss G has told us she had some savings, by 
having this policy it would  have enabled her to protect her savings for another  purpose or 
use them  to help pay for other essential living expenses. So I still think this policy  could have 
provided a useful benefit to her.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Miss G has lost out as a 
result of anything that FICL may have done  wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4345126