K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) mis-sold him 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr D bought a regular premium PPI policy  alongside  a loan in April 2001.  He purchased the 
policy during a meeting with an advisor  from Halifax in one of its branches. The loan and 
policy ended in May 2002. The policy covered Mr D against accidents, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint.  As he doesnt  agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mr Ds complaint because  of the following  reasons:
I first of all looked into whether Halifax gave Mr D a choice  to have the PPI policy.  I 
cant be sure how it was presented  to him in the meeting. So Ive needed to rely on 
both parties recollections of what happened and also consider  the sales 
documentation that was used at the time of sale.
Mr D says he didnt ask for or need  the PPI policy. But his recollections are not 
detailed. This is understandable as the sale took place many years ago. So I have 
looked at the sales  documentation and in particular  the loan agreement to see how 
the PPI was presented to him. I can see on the loan agreement that the PPI policy 
was presented as optional.  It is stated Do you want personal loan repayment 
insurance? followed  by two boxes  yes and no. Although I can see that a cross 
has been pre-populated by Halifax in a box next to yes, I am persuaded that it has 
been presented  as an optional requirement  on the form. I cant  be sure if he was not 
told the policy was optional, but based  on what I have seen I am persuaded  he 
signed the application form agreeing to the PPI policy.

Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the PPI to Mr D during the meeting and 
so, as this puts additional  responsibilities  on the business, I will proceed that this was 
the case. So as it did recommend the policy  to Mr D, it had to ensure  during the sale 
that the policy was suitable for his needs.  
After reviewing what I have, it doesnt look as if the PPI policy  was unsuitable for    
Mr D based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. The benefit would 
have been of use to Mr D during a difficult time and although he had13  weeks  sick 
pay, the benefit would have  been paid in addition to this and for longer. I think, on 
Ref: DRN49977892balance, Mr D had a need for this cover for any extended period of unemployment or 
sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant  or limiting term 
that would  make the policy  unsuitable for him.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the PPI policy  that 
Mr D took out but even  though it has provided information detailing  the cover and 
how much  it cost,  I cannot be sure that these costs were  disclosed to Mr D in a clear  
and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were  disclosed clearly I dont 
think Mr D would have done anything different and decided against having  the policy 
for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr D wouldve been affected by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4997789