K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy taken out 
in 1999. Mr and Mrs M say Progressive Building  Society (Progressive) mis-sold them the 
MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the MPPI wasnt mis-sold.  I realise this will be a disappointing outcome  for 
Mr and Mrs M. Ive explained below why I reached  this decision.
At the heart  of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is that they think Progressive didnt make it clear  
the MPPI  was optional.  They  recall receiving the MPPI application form with a number of 
other pieces  of important  paperwork and say they thought it all had to be completed  and 
returned to Progressive. They do not think Progressive made it clear the MPPI application 
form didnt have to be completed.
Ive considered the MPPI application  form carefully  as theres  little other contemporaneous  
evidence available. The MPPI application  from doesnt make any explicit  reference to the 
policy being optional.  Equally, there is nothing on it to suggest  taking  it was a condition  of the 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs M have mentioned a covering letter suggesting  Progressive  told them 
all the forms theyd been sent had to be completed, but Ive not seen a copy  of such a letter  
so cant place much weigh on this statement.
On balance I think if the MPPI really was a condition  of taking the mortgage, this would have 
been stated clearly by Progressive. I havent seen enough evidence to make me think  this is 
what happened. What I have seen  is that Mr and Mrs M filled in, returned and signed a 
separate application from for MPPI. So I think Mr and Mrs M did chose to take out the policy  
and that Progressive didnt mislead  them into thinking it was compulsory.
As the form was posted to Mr and Mrs M, it seems  unlikely Progressive gave them advice  
about the policy. So it didnt have to check if it was right for them.  But it did have to make  
sure they got the information they needed  to make this decision themselves.  
Its possible the information Progressive gave Mr and Mrs M about the MPPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take out the MPPI - so it looks  like they wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like 
they were affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for them  if something went wrong.  It also looks like the MPPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better information  about  the MPPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said - including  their response  to the 
adjudicator. But these points dont change  my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs M paid on their MPPI  and whether 
Progressive treated them unfairly. 
Ref: DRN42491572Progressive has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ms MPPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Progressive has been working this 
out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ms commission  was 
less than half the cost of the MPPI. As thats the case, I dont think  it needed to tell them 
about the commission  so I dont think Progressive treated them  unfairly. This means it 
doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs M back any of the commission they paid for the MPPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4249157