K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that her Santander UK plc account  should automatically roll over into a new 
account with the highest  available interest rate without her instructions to do so.
background
Ms L says Santander should make the lives of its customers easier  by making  changes  to 
some type of accounts on maturity. She says an account on maturity should  automatically 
roll over into a new account with the highest  available interest  rate. But that Santander insist 
on instructions to do that and a customer would always want  the higher interest  rate 
available. Ms L says Santanders systems and procedures on this issue  need changing.
Santander says its not made a mistake and has acted  in line with the account terms and 
conditions. It says it writes to its customers before an account  matures and its up to a 
customer to then make a decision on what to do with their money. Santander accepts  it gave 
Ms L incorrect information about being  able to open a new account via the telephone but 
says she did open a new account online in any event.
Ms L brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold  it. The adjudicator didnt 
think Ms L had been caused any significant inconvenience about the account opening 
information. The adjudicator thought it was up to Santander to decide  how it treated 
accounts on maturity  and it was the role of the regulator to order  a change in how a bank or 
building society operates.
Ms L doesnt accept  that view and has asked that it be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons. I realise Ms L will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at Santanders account terms and conditions and Im satisfied that it hasnt made  
a mistake here by not rolling Ms Ls account  into a new account with the highest  available 
interest rate. Im also satisfied that Santanders policy is to write to its customers before 
maturity and ask those customers for their instructions. I dont  think that policy  is unfair but 
as the adjudicator has explained we are not the regulator of banks and building societies in 
any event. So I cant fairly interfere in matters where I think a business is exercising its 
commercial judgement such as in this case.
I appreciate that Ms L initially complained to Santander that she was given misleading  
information about how to open  a new account. It is not clear if Ms L has accepted  
Santanders explanation as shes not raised  that part of her complaint within her complaint 
form. But I can see that the adjudicator thought that she hadnt  been caused a significant 
level of inconvenience.  I also agree  with the adjudicator on this point. I dont doubt that Ms L 
was told she could  open an account  over the telephone which  wasnt  correct. But I also think  
that Ms L was able to open the account online and so I think any inconvenience was 
minimal.
Ref: DRN44870542Overall Im satisfied that Santander hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly about Ms Ls 
main area of complaint. For the reasons  Ive explained I cant  fairly order  Santander  to 
change the way it conducts its business in any event.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4487054