K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complained  that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by National Westminster Bank plc (NatWest).
background
Mr and Mrs H told us they bought the PPI policy when they took out a mortgage  in 1999. 
There is very little information  available about the sale of the policy,  but Mr and Mrs H said 
their reason  for complaining was that they were told that any payments made during a claim 
would affect their entitlement to means-tested  benefits  meaning they wouldnt have 
benefited from the cover.
The policy provided  accident, sickness and unemployment cover  initially for Mr and Mrs H 
but later only for Mr H. The earliest  information about the monthly cost shows a premium of 
£28.16 and a monthly  benefit of £550.  Its not clear how this was split between  Mr and Mrs 
H. If either had made a successful claim, the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per 
claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed, and asked  that it be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
I have looked  at the PPI sale generally,  as well as Mr and Mrs Hs specific  complaint point. 
This is a difficult case to decide as there  is so little evidence available.  NatWest couldnt give 
us copies of any of the point of sale documents apart from the policy  document and a 
summary booklet. Mr and Mrs H had no documents from the point of sale.  So Ive taken into 
account the evidence we do have,  including Mr and Mrs Hs recollections of the sale.  
Mr and Mrs H said they requested the policy, and Ive no reason to think that they werent 
given a choice  about it. They further  said they werent advised to take out the policy,  and 
NatWest confirmed that its sales process at the time didnt involve advice. So NatWest didnt 
need to make sure that the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs H. But it shouldve given them  
enough information for them to make an informed choice about it.
I have a copy of the PPI policy  from 1999. I cant know how the main  limitations  and 
exclusions in the policy might have been explained to Mr and Mrs H, but I cant see that they 
wouldve been affected by any of these.  
Its not clear how the monthly cost of the PPI was set out to Mr and Mrs H, but the monthly 
premium was £28.16,  and Ive no evidence to suggest that cost was an issue.  
Mr and Mrs H both said that they wouldve been  entitled to sick pay from their employers of 
six months full pay and six months half pay. But they said they had no other ways of making 
Ref: DRN48239702the mortgage repayments if they hadnt  been  able to work. From all this I think Mr and Mrs H 
couldve found it difficult to meet the mortgage  repayments for any length of time if one of 
them was off sick or had lost their job. Ive kept in mind that the policy  couldve paid out for 
up to 12 months in the event of a successful  claim,  so overall, I think the PPI couldve 
provided a useful benefit to protect what was a major commitment.
Turning to the effect of payments in a successful claim affecting entitlement to benefits, I 
need to consider the position  at the point  of sale (although having said that, I dont think  the 
position has changed). Mr and Mrs H said they were  told by the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP), and an advice agency, that claim payments made into their current  
account - rather than directly into the mortgage  account  would be considered as income 
and therefore  affect  their entitlement  to means  tested  benefits. They  do not have any written 
confirmation of this from either source.  
Set against  this, the policy document states  The amount of State Benefit you receive may 
be affected if your monthly benefit under this policy exceeds your monthly  mortgage  
repayment and mortgage related outgoings  Your local Benefits Agency will be able to 
provide you with more  details So this only refers to amounts exceeding the mortgage-
related payments.
I am also aware of a leaflet issued by the Association of British Insurers from around  the 
time of the sale, which says that claim payments should not be taken into account  when 
assessing eligibility for State benefits.  
I also note that when Mr and Mrs H initially complained to us, they mentioned  income 
protection/permanent health insurance  as the product they wished to complain  about,  
although it was in fact a PPI policy. However, it does  make me think that there may have 
been some  confusion on the part of the DWP  and advice agency  about the nature of the 
cover that Mr and Mrs H were enquiring about.  
From all this, I dont  think that the method of payment in the event of a claim would have 
made a difference to any entitlement Mr and Mrs H wouldve had to means-tested benefits. 
So overall I dont think the PPI was mis-sold   and therefore NatWest doesnt need  to refund 
everything Mr and Mrs H paid for it. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs H paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
NatWest told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Hs PPI was less than half of what they 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out and, based 
on what weve seen, it looks as though its right  Mr and Mrs Hs commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission, so I dont  think  NatWest  treated them  unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr and Mrs H back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
Ref: DRN48239703my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4823970