K822xcomplaint
Mr Y has complained about the poor service he received from Covea  Insurance plc when he 
made a claim under  his car insurance policy. Mr Ys wife is helping him with his complaint. 
background 
Mr Y was unfortunately  involved in an incident  in November  2018 and made  a claim to his 
insurer, Covea. 
Covea took two weeks to decide that Mr Ys car was repairable.  Mr Y says this delay was 
unacceptable and he had to hire a car for this period which he wants Covea to reimburse 
him for. 
Covea acknowledged  that it had caused some delay  and so it paid Mr Y £200 
compensation. Mr Y was provided with a hire car two weeks after the incident. 
Our investigator thought Covea had done enough to put things right.  Mr Y didnt agree. He 
wants Covea to pay more  compensation.  So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. 
Its inevitable that dealing with a claim will involve our own time and some inconvenience.  
Ive considered whether Covea has fairly compensated Mr Y for its part in increasing the 
level of inconvenience  this claim caused Mr Y. I think it has and Ill explain  why. 
Covea thought initially that Mr Ys car might  not be economical to repair.  But it couldnt make  
this decision before it arranged for an engineer to inspect Mr Ys car. I think  a reasonable 
time frame to arrange this is in the region  of 3-5 working days. However, it took Covea two 
weeks to reach its decision that Mr Ys car was repairable and provide Mr Y with a courtesy  
car. 
Mr Ys policy  says that Covea will provide him with a courtesy car for the duration of the 
repairs. And so this means  Mr Y isnt entitled to a replacement car under  his policy  from the 
date of the incident. 
But because Covea  accepts that it could have  done  more to reach a decision to repair  
Mr Ys car sooner, it apologised to Mr Y and paid him £200 compensation. It agreed  that 
Mr Ys experience wasnt as good  as it could have  been and this was reflected in the number 
of calls hed made to Covea. 
I understand Mr Y is happy with the repairs which have been completed  and this is good to 
know. Overall  I think Covea has done enough to resolve Mr Ys complaint. So I dont think  it 
needs to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN41562432Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4156243