K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that TSB Bank  plc hasnt paid her interest  on her accounts  since April 
2017.
background
Miss G says she noticed towards  the end of 2018 that she hadnt been  paid interest  on her 
TSB accounts. She says she tried to contact TSB about the problem but didnt receive a 
response.
TSB says Miss G didnt  meet the account requirements and that is why she didnt  receive 
any interest from April 2017. It says Miss G was no longer registered for paperless 
correspondence and hadnt logged into her online  banking. TSB says it sent reminders to 
Miss G in December 2017 about  this issue and in early 2018.
Miss G had already  brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it. He 
thought Miss G stopped meeting the account conditions  in April 2017 and so was no longer  
entitled to the interest. The adjudicator accepted  that TSB couldve told Miss G that before 
December 2017  but also thought that Miss G didnt notice the problem until the end of 2018.
Miss G didnt  accept that view and says she didnt alter the account statements  and says 
TSB must have. She also says she set up a new TSB account  in June 2017 and so would 
have set up a standing order online.
TSB says that even  if Miss G set up the standing order  online  she still didnt log into her 
account inbox  and read the correspondence it sent her. It says that meant she wasnt  
complying with the account terms and conditions.
The adjudicator looked at the complaint again but concluded TSB hadnt made a mistake.
Miss G says TSB should refund her the interest  its not paid her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall conclusion  as the adjudicator for the same  reasons. I realise Miss G will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Miss G would have agreed to 
when the accounts were  opened. And I can see that there are a number of conditions  that 
had to be kept to before  interest  would be paid. Two of those conditions  were that all 
correspondence had to be paperless  and that online banking had to be accessed.
Im satisfied that Miss G must have kept to those conditions as she was paid interest before 
2017. But I think on balance having  looked at TSBs  records, that Miss G didnt access 
online banking in the way she was required to do. And as a result, in line with the account 
terms and conditions, TSB changed her correspondence preference from paperless.  Im 
satisfied that TSB didnt  make a mistake  by doing  so and also didnt make a mistake or act 
unfairly by stopping the interest as Miss G no longer met the account terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN41715092I appreciate Miss G says she didnt  change the setting for paperless  correspondence and I 
agree with her that it was more likely to have  been TSB that did so but for the reasons Ive 
explained. I also appreciate that Miss G says that she did use online banking  in 2017 to set 
up a standing order into a new account.  But I think it likely  that by that point her preferences 
had already been changed and it was up to Miss G to change  them  back and start meeting 
the account conditions again.
I think it unlikely that Miss G was using  online  banking  as TSB intended. I say that as I can 
see that TSB e-mailed  her account information in December 2017  and again in early  2018. 
But Miss G didnt access them and didnt notice that interest wasnt  being paid until the end 
of 2018. So I think TSB reasonably took the view that paperless communication  was no 
longer appropriate as Miss G wasnt reading the letters TSB sent her.
Overall I dont think TSB has made a mistake or acted unfairly here so I cant  fairly order  it to 
pay Miss G the interest she says wasnt paid.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4171509