K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Scottish  Widows  Limited failed to send them  policy review 
letters after 2013  as required. As a result they say they have lost the opportunity  to deal with 
any shortfall. They want to be compensated for that.
background 
The business upheld  the complaint. It said it had, indeed, not sent the letters as it should 
have. It offered Mr and Mrs S £150  for the trouble this had caused. Mr and Mrs S didnt 
accept that and said the business should  pay them the shortfall on the policy.  They  say the 
fact that they stopped receiving letters made them think  there  was no longer a problem with 
their policy.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at the file. She thought what  the business  had offered  was 
fair. She said she thought that earlier letters Mr and Mrs S say they did get would have 
alerted them  to the problems with the policy.  That being the case, they could have taken 
action before had they wanted to. The fact that they didnt, despite  being put on notice of a 
possible shortfall meant there was no reason to believe  they would have acted differently 
had they got all the letters they should have.  
Mr and Mrs S also say they never received any annual  statements. It seems after 
investigation that these statements may have gone to an advisory  business  and not been  
passed on.
That didnt change  the adjudicators view however. Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy and 
have asked for an ombudsmans final decision.  The file has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that I dont uphold the 
complaint. To put it another way I think the way the business has dealt with this and the offer 
made is fair. I know  this isnt what Mr and Mrs S want.
This complaint has been successful, it has been  upheld. The only issue  is what  the business 
should do to redress  Mr and Mrs S for its admitted failures.
Our approach (and the approach we expect businesses to take)  is to ask what financial 
position a consumer would have been  in but for the business error(s). To put it another  
way if the business had got things right, would the consumer be any better off. If they would 
be then they should be put in that better position.  There is also the possibility of a payment 
which is unrelated  to that. A payment for the trouble and upset caused by the business 
getting things  wrong.  That is what the business has offered  here.
Of course it is impossible for anyone to know with certainty what would have happened  had 
things been different - here, if the business  had sent the letters as it should have. All we can 
do is take a view as to what we think on balance would have happened (that is what we think 
is more likely than not to have happened).
I dont doubt for one moment  what Mr and Mrs S say. However they received high risk 
warning letters for several years  before 2013 and, it seems, did nothing about  the possible 
Ref: DRN44860212shortfall. Let me make  it clear this is in no sense a criticism  of Mr and Mrs S. They do not 
and did not have any obligation  to do anything.  But it does make  it very difficult  to take the 
view that the specific  letters  which were missing would have caused Mr and Mrs S to do 
something when  none  of the others did.
The policy hasnt got a shortfall because  the business failed to send letters. It has a shortfall  
for a number of complex reasons partly to do with market  forces  and returns being  lower 
than hoped for when  the policy was taken out. Mr and Mrs S had many years of red high 
risk letters warning about the problem and encouraging them to do something about it (if 
they wished to and if they could).  
I have seen nothing  to persuade me Mr and Mrs S would  have  (and could have) done 
anything differently if they had got all the letters.  I dont think  the annual  statements are 
relevant here. The warning letters  are what the regulator said should be sent. The annual  
statements are simply  additional to that. 
I can perfectly well understand  why this complaint has been brought and how strongly  
Mr and Mrs S feel about this. I am not persuaded though that I should tell the business to 
increase its offer of £150 for the trouble and upset its mistakes have caused.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision  before 1 March  2019
If they want to accept the offer made  by the business they should contact it direct.
Mike Boyall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4486021