K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains as a trustee of F, a pension scheme, that AXA Insurance UK Plc wont 
remedy failed repairs to the roof of its industrial unit in respect  of a claim under its 
commercial property insurance.
background
In January 2014 the roof of the unit was damaged by a storm. F made a claim to AXA, who 
arranged to carry out repairs. These were completed in September  2015. In January 2017 
Mrs G contacted the contractors to advise them that there was internal  water damage to the 
building. The contractors  disputed  that there were any problems  with their workmanship and 
said that the roof panels had been subsequently damaged. 
Mrs G obtained a report from a surveyor (H).  He concluded that the damage to the roof 
was due to poor workmanship,  and that the main replacement steel  profile  roof sheets had 
been poorly installed without care to protect  the material  prior to installation. His overall 
conclusion was that the cause of the water staining and damp  was the thermal bridging and 
lack of ventilation,  coupled with the poor workmanship  and damaged profile roof sheets. This 
was causing a build-up of condensation to the roof void. He also said that the roof outlets,  
gutters and down pipes were generally in good  order.
AXA obtained a report from a surveyor (B). She concluded that the defective  roof sheets 
identified in Hs report were as a result  of persons accessing the roof, with indentations 
consistent with people walking directly on the roof sheets without the use of protective  
coverings. She further said that condensation, damp and mould to one side of the building  
were, in her opinion, as a direct result of lack of ventilation, caused  by vents and windows 
being blocked and taped up. She speculated that the tenants  had been using the building to 
keep reptiles in related to their business, and that the humid warm temperatures would  have 
caused condensation. Mrs G said that no reptiles were kept in the building.
B further  said that the recently  installed new rainwater goods had been incorrectly  installed 
without correct falls allowing  rainwater to run down  the side walls  of the building. She 
concluded that the workmanship  of the contractors was of a good  standard and in line with 
building regulations at the time of installation.
On referral to this service,  due to the very different opinions of the two surveyors our 
investigator thought  that the best resolution  to the matter was for an independent  third 
surveyor to be appointed. AXA agreed  to this but said it wouldnt agree to be bound  by the 
conclusions, which it reserved the right to challenge. It agreed for the matter  to be 
considered by an ombudsman after that, if the parties didnt agree.
After some delay, a surveyor agreed  by both parties  (C) carried out a report.  His essential  
conclusions were:
That there was evidence of impact  damage to a section  of roof sheets situated  close  
to where he inspected the roof. He said whilst  the damage was unlikely to cause 
issues with water ingress, the previously flat surface  of the underside  of the damaged 
roof sheets had become distorted.
He noted the presence of flashbands  and commented that they should  only be used 
for temporary, not permanent repair (as here).
Ref: DRN41068202That the cause  of the water ingress  evidenced internally is not related exclusively to 
poor workmanship. But that the fundamental  fault with the roof and the cause of 
condensation within the ceiling void, which had caused staining to the ceiling linings, 
was the incorrect  specification of the metal roof sheets.
He didnt notice  any keeping of reptiles in the building and commented that the 
overall temperature was cold.
The installation of further separate insulation would not help.  Provision of ventilation 
might alleviate  the problem. However  he said that it would involve the setting up of 
mechanical fans which would have to be kept running and would be prohibitively  
expensive to install and run.
At the time of inspection the uPVC guttering had good falls, was clear and appeared 
to function as intended.
AXAs surveyor commented  on the report.  It stood  by its original  report  and its conclusions. It 
pointed out that the report  advised  that the roof sheets originally installed are now not fit for 
purpose, but confirmed that this was built to the specification  agreed with the client.  
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I preferred  the conclusions  of the independent  
expert to those of AXAs surveyor.  So AXA would have to carry out or pay for the repairs  to 
the roof sheets.  I further said it should  pay Mrs G £250 for the inconvenience caused  and 
pay the cost of Hs survey  report.
AXA didnt agree with my provisional decision. I shall deal with its responses in my findings  
below.
Mrs G responded on behalf  of F. Again I shall deal with those responses in my findings 
below.
findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
The purpose of getting a third independent  report was so as to reach  a clear conclusion 
about what has caused the damage  to the roof. I have noted that both H and C are RICS 
registered. And while the company that AXA used is RICS  registered, B herself is not. In 
considering the reports, I prefer that of C, which is more  detailed, has more  persuasive 
evidence and is largely backed  up by H.
Ref: DRN41068203adequacy of the roof panels
H and C are largely in agreement that the cause of the water  ingress and staining is the 
specification of the roof panels.  Because these  are uninsulated metal sheets I understand 
that they fail to separate adequately the cold outside  air from the warmer air inside. It 
appears to me to be a fundamental flaw in the design. And whilst  it may have been agreed 
with Mrs G, I wouldnt have expected her to know of the problems caused by such a design.  
AXA says the metal sheets were  compliant  with building regulations at the time. This doesnt 
mean however that they were fit for purpose with respect to this particular property and the 
fact that they have  caused the problems with water ingress and damp indicates to me that 
the repair under the insurance  claim is not an effective one. I think  the only way of resolving 
the matter is to replace the roof sheets  with insulation  backed sheets, as recommended by 
C.
ventilation
Im persuaded by C that there couldnt be an adequate ventilation system  installed without 
putting in an expensive mechanical fan system which would need to be constantly  running. 
B refers to the fact that some of the ventilation was taped up, although that isnt referred to in 
the other two reports. She also suggested  that the area had to be kept warm and humid for 
the keeping of reptiles. Mrs G has consistently  denied that reptiles  were  kept in the building 
and the other surveyors have made  no reference to the keeping  of reptiles.
I dont think its likely  reptiles  were  kept there as the temperature of the building has been 
found to be largely  too cold for that. 
As C commented that open vents with no mechanical assistance  would  not be adequate, 
even if some of the ventilation was blocked  I dont  think would have made  any difference  to 
the ventilation  problem.
damage to the roof
C has specifically referred to the fact that some  of the roof panels  had to be repaired after 
they were damaged by vandals.  These were arranged to be repaired by F. And I note the 
surveyors view that the damage is unlikely to cause issues with water  ingress  As the roof 
panels as a whole didnt  amount to an effective  repair they will all have to be replaced 
anyway. So I dont  think that F needs  to make a separate claim for the damaged panels.
rainwater goods
Both C and H found the guttering to be in good  order and functioning as intended. Despite 
Bs conclusions to the contrary, I think it reasonable to accept C's view on this.
resolution
I think that in order  to resolve the claim, AXA should pay for the re-roofing of the building. At 
the trustees  of Fs option, it should either  pay the reasonable costs of their contractors, or 
arrange for its own contractor to carry out the work.  Mrs G should  bear in mind that if the 
trustees instruct their own contractor, AXA wont have any liability  for the quality of the work. 
Any cost would be that assessed  by C, and AXA should pay his fees in that respect.
Ref: DRN41068204AXA should  also pay the cost of repairing the internal damage.  Ive noted that C advises that 
this isnt just dcor. He says that once  the roof coverings are removed the condition of the 
existing ceiling linings and joists should  be assessed and any damaged materials should be 
replaced with new.  As the cost of this cant be estimated yet, I will direct  that AXA consider 
that. 
It further appears likely  that the repairs will cause disruption to the business carried out 
there. In so far as the tenants will be unable to use the building during the repairs,  AXA 
should consider  any loss of rent during  that period.
If the parties  cant agree on the matters  I am requiring AXA to consider, F is free to refer that 
point back to this service.
AXA should  also refund  to F the costs  of the survey  carried  out by H, since his conclusions 
were largely  upheld by C.
compensation
The independent survey was recommended and agreed on by the parties in November 
2017. The delays  since then and up until the production  of Cs report  were  largely  due to 
AXA. Hs survey was carried out in March 2017.  I propose to make an award of 
compensation for the inconvenience caused  to Mrs G as trustee for F, of £250.
I would reiterate that of the expert  reports I am persuaded by the conclusions of C. He was 
appointed following a joint agreement between the parties so he isnt affected by any bias in 
favour of the party appointing him. In so far as Hs report agrees  with C, I also agree  with 
those conclusions. As Ive said the purpose  of getting the third report was because AXAs 
surveyor and H were  at odds. AXA has made  the point that C didnt take photos. I cant see 
that that compromises his evidence. There are plenty of other photos supplied by both 
parties.
AXAs/Mrs Gs responses
AXA says:
Prior to the claim there wasnt any insulation present.  The roof sheets  met building  
regulations at the time they were installed.
C doesnt say that the roof panels dont comply  with building  regulations.
Mrs G says:
She strongly refutes  the comment that she agreed the specification of the roof. In fact 
she queried the construction at several times during  the claims process. She was told in 
an email from AXAs  loss adjuster: The definitive answer  from Building Control is as 
follows: Repairs to a roof which involve the replacement of no more than 25% of the total 
roof area can be replaced without the need  for the roof to be upgraded to meet Part L of 
the Building Regs  this is regardless  of the use of the building  i.e. habitable dwelling or 
not.
The works have  never  been  inspected or signed  off by Building Control. She has spoken  
to the local Council and they have no record of the works.
Ref: DRN41068205My understanding is that the method of insulation chosen by AXA was the cause of the 
problem. That is the insulation was separate from the roof panels. Whether or not there  was 
originally insulation there, the fact is AXA was required by Building  Control  to install  it. And 
Ive noted the application  to Building Control  for the separate installation of insulation. 
Whether or not this strictly complied  with Building  Regulations at the time does not mean 
that the repairs were  fit for their purpose, which both C and H say they werent  and as I 
found in my provisional findings. I dont know if the works were  signed off. If they were it 
would be to say whether  they complied with Regulations, not whether the standard of 
workmanship was adequate or to comment on the ventilation of the building.
AXA further said
F, or the tenant of the building had blocked  up windows and vents etc which in turn 
caused the walls in places to condensate and then mould.
Damage to the roof sheets had clearly been caused by trespassers walking on them.
Its original  contractor  hadnt installed the flash bands
At the time of their surveyors  visit there was heavy condensation  found to the building, 
with intensive  heat lamps within the display cabinets/glass aquariums -no doubt to keep 
the conditions  at an ultimate  humid  temperature consistent with housing reptiles. They  
concluded it wasnt due to the incorrect panels.
Their surveyor visited in July, whilst  C visited in December. Their surveyor  found the 
temperature to be hot and humid.  There were glass cases with heating lamps  on, 
indicating that reptiles  were kept there. It believes that continued to be the case. It cites 
evidence from the website of the current tenants confirming they keep  reptiles there.
The rainwater goods were incorrectly installed, not by its contractor.
Mrs G said:
Indentations  to the roof were  potentially made  by AXAs  roofing contractor attempting  to 
repair water  staining in August 2015 before handover. She assumes that it was at that 
stage that the flashbands were installed.
Reptiles are kept in the front shop and an adjacent flat roof storage area, not in the 
building in question. Neither of these two areas show any sign of the 
condensation/staining that is apparent in the building.
I dont think theres any definitive evidence concerning the cause of the damaged  roof 
panels. I think it likely following Cs conclusions that this was due to vandals. But as Ive said 
in my provisional findings, Cs conclusion, which I accept,  is that the damage to the roof 
panels was unlikely to have caused any water ingress. And I also accept Cs conclusions 
regarding the cause of the compensation and damp. This also means that I dont accept that 
if there was any blocking  up any of the vents  that this had any impact on the problem.
As for keeping reptiles, I do note Cs visit was in December  and obviously the temperature  
would have been different  to that in July when B visited. I should point out here that the 
agreement to appoint  C was made  in November 2017, but AXAs  oversight and then its 
Ref: DRN41068206slowness in agreeing the particular expert meant  that the visit couldnt  take place until 
December 2018.  But I do think  its speculation  on AXAs part as no reptiles were ever noted  
to be there.  I dont think the tenants website shows that reptiles were kept in the building in 
question. And I think it reasonable to accept Mrs Gs assurances in that respect.
Whilst I note what AXA says about  the rainwater  goods, neither  C nor H found any fault with 
them. I think it reasonable to accept their conclusions.
overall
Im not persuaded by AXAs assertions, contrary to those of C, that the water ingress was 
caused by anything other than the defective  method of installing the roof sheets with 
separate insulation.  My conclusions in that respect are informed by the evidence  of the two 
surveyors , H and C. In particular C was independent. So Im not persuaded to change  my 
provisional findings as Ive set them out above. These are now final and form part of this final 
decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
pay the cost of replacing the roof panels on Fs building  with suitable insulated  
replacements, as assessed by C, at AXAs expense, either by instructing suitable 
contractors to carry out the repair or, at Fs option, by paying a cash settlement to F.
consider the cost of any internal repairs needed  because of the water ingress/damp 
issues in the same way.
consider any rent lost by F due to the building being out of use during the repair  
works.
refund  to F the cost of Hs survey report.
pay £250 compensation to Mrs G.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4106820