K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold payment protection insurance  
(PPI) to him alongside a credit card in 2001. 
I know that when  PPI was sold to Mr W, BOS was trading as Halifax.  BOS is responsible for 
complaints like this about Halifax.  So to keep  things simple, Ill refer to BOS  for the rest of 
this decision. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Through his representative, 
Mr W disagreed  with that view. He said that BOS didnt make  it clear to him that the policy  
was optional. He believed that as he was self-employed, it would have been difficult for him 
to make a claim. He also made some  points about  unfair commission.  
As Mr W didnt agree  with our adjudicators view, the matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr W, but I havent  upheld this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Mr W told us that he thought hed applied for this PPI policy by post. But from the evidence  
Ive seen, it looks as though the policy was taken out during a meeting  in a branch. I cant 
know what was said during that meeting.  And as Mr W doesnt remember it, Ive looked  at 
the paperwork to help me decide whats likely to have happened  during that meeting. 
I can see that in order  for PPI to be added to his credit  card,  Mr W had to tick a box on his 
application form to say he wanted  cover. That box has been  marked electronically to indicate 
he wanted the policy.
I accept its unlikely that Mr W completed this box himself on a BOS computer. But I think  it 
indicates there was a discussion between  the parties. I say this because  other  details were  
included on the form, such as Mr Ws occupation,  that could have only been completed with 
input from him. I can also see that some  other  financial products that were  available at the 
time were declined by Mr W. That suggests  there would have been a conversation about 
which products he wanted.  And the PPI premiums would have appeared on his credit card 
statements. So if he didnt know about the policy, I think hed have queried  what those 
payments were for at the time. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale. Thats a higher test for BOS to satisfy as it had to make 
sure the cover was suitable for Mr Ws needs.  To help me decide whether it was suitable, 
Ive looked at what he told us about his circumstances  at the time. And Ive also thought 
about the terms and conditions  of the policy. 
Ref: DRN46320612I can see that if hed had to make  a claim on the PPI, 10% of Mr Ws balance  would have 
been repaid for every month he was out of work because he was unwell or if he became 
unemployed up to a maximum of 12 months. 
In his initial PPI questionnaire, Mr W said that he would  have had sick pay for more than 12 
months and that he had savings which were the equivalent of more  than 12 months of his 
salary. He later clarified that information to say that he wouldnt have received any sick pay 
and that he only had minor savings. It follows then that the PPI would have offered benefits 
over and above the means he already had in place  if he couldnt work.  
I know Mr W was self-employed. But after checking the terms and conditions of this 
particular policy, I dont  think that would have made a difference to his ability  to make  a 
claim. Mr W told us he was in good health. So I dont  think  hed have been affected by any of 
the exclusions about medical conditions.  And I havent seen anything else that was unusual 
about his circumstances that would  have stopped him from making a successful claim if he 
needed to. 
Overall, I think the policy was suitable  for Mr W. Even so, BOS  still had to give him enough  
information about the cover so he could decide  for himself whether it was a good fit for his 
needs. I accept  that BOS  may not have told Mr W everything it should have done about  the 
PPI. But I dont think that would have affected his decision to take PPI. Ive set out above  
how I think the cover might have been  helpful for him if he couldnt work. And although I 
appreciate he doesnt  now remember, I think Mr W probably chose to buy PPI at the time  
so it looks like he probably wanted this type of cover. With all of this in mind,  I dont think  
Mr W would  have acted differently if hed been given more or better  information  about the 
cover. 
Commission 
As I said above, when  Mr W responded to our adjudicator, he made some arguments about 
unfair commission. As our adjudicator  explained in her original view letter,  the unfair 
commission rules only apply to certain  types of credit. In Mr Ws case,  I dont think  they 
apply because it looks as though the account was closed before April 2008.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc. I dont require it to take any further 
action. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4632061