K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr C says American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Having done that, Ive decided this policy wasnt mis-sold, for the following reasons:
Mr Cs postal credit card application had a section for PPI. Though the copy  of the form 
is not that clear  after so many  years, it looks like there was a box Mr C could tick if he 
wanted PPI, which  could be left blank if he didnt  want  it. The box for PPI was ticked  and 
Mr C signed the application to confirm  his choices,  then returned  it by post in his own 
time. So I think its most likely that AMEX  made  it clear Mr C didnt have to take out PPI 
and that he chose to take it  though I can understand  if he no longer remembers doing 
so after so long.
AMEX didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C, so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
It did have to give Mr C clear  enough information  about the PPI, so he could decide  for 
himself whether it was right for him.
Its possible the information AMEX gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to 
have changed  his mind. Here,  it looks like Mr C chose the policy, which indicates he 
wanted this type of cover.  Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI. And the 
policy wouldve paid out on top of Mr Cs existing benefits  and savings and covered him 
for longer.  So the policy could have been useful for Mr C in case  something went  wrong. 
And so I dont think that better  information was likely to have put him off taking it out.
Mr C pointed out that he was given a refund for another policy, and I understand his 
point. But different policies worked in different ways, were sold using different processes 
at different times,  and so on. So if one policy was mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean 
that a different one was, too. Ive explained  above why I dont think  that this particular 
policy was mis-sold.
This means  AMEX doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr C paid on his policy  and whether AMEX  treated 
him unfairly.  
Ref: DRN43331142AMEX has told us that the commission  for Mr Cs policy was less than half of what he paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how AMEX has been working this out and based on what  
weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Cs commission was less than half the cost of the 
policy. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission   so I dont 
think AMEX treated him unfairly. This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr C back any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4333114