K820x#14Complaint
Mr L complains  about the quality  of the repairs on his car when he claimed on the car 
insurance policy he has with Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited (LV).
All references to LV include  its agents.
Background
Mr L has a car insurance policy which is underwritten by LV. In May 2018, Mr L had a road 
traffic accident and damaged his car. He made a claim under his policy and paid his £400 
excess. LV authorised repairs to the car which were done by one of its authorised repairers. 
The repairs  were completed, and Mr L received  his vehicle back.
A few months later, Mr L took his car to another garage for a different issue. Whilst there, the 
new garage informed  him that the repair hadnt been  done  correctly  so he contacted LV. Mr L 
says he had to take his car back at least five times  before  the repair was done satisfactorily. Mr 
L also said he didnt  receive any contact from LV despite trying several times.
LV accepted the repair hadnt  been done satisfactorily and initially offered Mr L £250  for the 
inconvenience caused. After further  conversations,  LV paid Mr L £400 (the equivalent  to his 
full excess) to resolve the complaint. Mr L referred  his complaint to our service.
Our investigator felt LV had done  enough  to put things right so didnt uphold the complaint. 
He explained  that it was clear the garage  hadnt repaired his car satisfactorily, which later 
caused inconvenience as he had to return it several times for the problem to be corrected. 
But he felt £400  compensation  was fair for this. He explained that although  its effectively a 
refund of Mr Ls excess payment, as the excess would  always be due for this type of 
accidental damage,  the £400 was compensation. And the investigator felt it was a fair 
amount for the trouble and upset the issues caused  Mr L.
Mr L disagreed. He told us that he wasnt aware  of the problem and felt he would never have 
known had he not been to another garage. He was upset that the garage returned the 
vehicle knowing the repairs werent completed properly. Mr L felt he should be awarded 
higher compensation, so asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  LV has done 
enough to put things  right, so Im not upholding this complaint.
Its been accepted by all parties that the repair of Mr Ls car wasnt  done correctly  at first, and 
that he hadnt had the experience  he couldve  expected when he claimed on his policy.  So, Ive 
looked at the impact  these issues have had on Mr L to determine whether LV has done enough.
When Mr L had his accident, it appears he had his car returned in a reasonable timeframe.  
Mr L was then driving around unaware  that there  may be anything wrong. So, for these 
months Mr L wasnt experiencing any impact from what the garage  (instructed  by LV) had 
done. It was only when Mr L took his car to a different garage (for an unrelated  reason) that 
he was told his new bonnet wasnt fitted correctly. I can imagine that this wouldve been a 
shock to him and caused him some  distress.  
Ref: DRN48954432Mr L then tried to get in contact with LV but had trouble getting a response. In addition to this 
he had to take his car to the repairing garage  numerous times before the car was repaired 
satisfactorily. This was clearly inconvenient  and frustrating.
I can see that LV has returned Mr Ls excess by way of compensation, this was £400.  I think  
this is a fair amount to compensate for the frustration, inconvenience and distress that Mr L 
experienced. 
I understand Mr L would  like more and has suggested perhaps half the cost of repairs. But 
the repairs were paid for by LV  and as the claim was for accident  related damage Mr L 
was required to pay his excess to have his car repaired as per the terms of his policy. Whilst 
there have  been  problems,  Mr L did have  his car repaired for him. So, hes not lost out 
financially from what I can see. As such,  it wouldnt  be fair for me to ask LV to pay him any 
part of the repair cost.
The £400  compensation  Mr L has received is fair and reasonable for the issues  caused by 
LV, so I wont be asking  it to pay him anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4895443