K820x#14complaint
Miss P says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card. Miss P says she was mis-sold the policy  because 
PPI was never mentioned and she never agreed  to it.
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  this case and told Miss P it shouldnt be upheld.  But she 
disagreed and her complaint has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Ive got no doubt that Miss P genuinely  and honestly  believes she was mis-sold  this policy. 
But these  events were  quite a while ago and I also note that she didnt have this particular 
credit card account for very long.  Miss P told us in her original complaint that the credit and 
PPI were sold at a meeting with Halifax. Later she said it was during a phone  call. However, 
Halifaxs records show the sale was at a meeting in one of its branches and looking at the 
type of application form, I agree. The branch is also named on the form.
Weve also seen a few similar cases to this and as a consequence, we now know quite a bit 
about how the processes normally worked and the type of paperwork that was used during 
the course of these  sales. We know, for example, that consumers usually  spoke with a 
Halifax adviser to discuss  their requirements  and as a result  of that discussion a credit 
agreement was then drawn up for the consumer  to check  and sign.
Ive looked at the original application  form Miss P signed and I can see theres  a section on it 
about credit card repayments insurance . If the consumer wanted this type of cover,  a box 
was required to be checked. There was an x placed into this box on Miss Ps form and so I 
think it would  have  put there as a result of the discussion Ive mentioned above. 
So I think this is evidence  that Miss P asked for the PPI and she would have been able to 
see she didnt need to have it if she didnt want to.
Halifax has conceded that it probably advised Miss P when she took out the PPI and so it 
was under an obligation to make sure the policy was suitable  for her. Ive looked at her age, 
job, health and circumstances  at the time to help me decide  this.
I think Miss P was eligible for the PPI and I dont think  that shed have been caught  by any of 
the major  exclusions we tend to see in these policies. The monthly  cost of the policy  was 
78p per £100 of the outstanding balance which was comparable with similar policies I know 
were sold around that time. Ive got no evidence to suggest this was unaffordable  for Miss P. 
Miss P told us she already enjoyed some  sickness protection with her job, implying she 
didnt need the PPI. She also said she could have sold some assets she owned.
Ref: DRN47303832I understand why Miss P has said these  things. But Im afraid they dont necessarily mean  
the PPI wasnt suitable.  Policies like this are designed to remove  the added pressure of 
paying credit  card balances in financially  difficult times  and in the event of a successful claim 
it could have paid 10% of Miss Ps outstanding  balance for up to 12 months. This would 
have been in addition to any other benefits she already  had. So I dont think the 
recommendation to have  PPI was an unreasonable one. 
Overall, I think the policy was suitable  for Miss P.
Halifax also needed to provide information  that was clear, fair and not misleading so Miss P 
could make an informed  choice as to whether she should buy the policy.  I can see ways 
where the form could  have been  made clearer. And I cant  say for sure whether she was told 
everything she shouldve  been told, but I dont think this would have  made any difference to 
whether or not she still would have bought the policy. I think  she would have been given 
something explaining the policy rules  and from the discussion,  I think  she would  have had 
enough information on which to make an informed  decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.  And I dont direct 
Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4730383