K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Yorkshire Building Society   trading as Chelsea Building  Society  - 
(Yorkshire) - mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI). 
background
In 2004, PPI was added to a mortgage Mr and Mrs L were  taking  out. The policy  was in     
Mr Ls sole name and the policy provided  for unemployment cover only.  Mr and Mrs L paid 
£16.72 a month for it. Mr and Mrs L feel that this policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator felt the policy wasnt mis-sold so didnt uphold  the complaint. Mr and Mrs L 
were unhappy  with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint  has now been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ls case.
After doing that, I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Yorkshire shouldve  made  sure Mr and Mrs L aware  they had a choice in buying the policy.   
Mr and Mrs L say the policy was automatically added and they werent  given a choice. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  documents  including  the PPI application  
form. The mortgage application has a section about  the PPI. In this section, it asks 
applicants to select whether they want to take the policy or not by ticking the relevant box. 
On Mr and Mrs Ls form, the box to select the policy has been ticked. As Mr and Mrs L 
indicated they wanted to have PPI, they were sent a separate  application  form to complete. 
This form contains options  for the type of cover an applicant wants  and Mr and Mrs L have 
chosen the option that best suited their circumstances  in this case  to take a policy  which 
covers Mr L for unemployment  only - and have signed the form. 
So I think Yorkshire made it clear that Mr and Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
choose to take it  although I can understand why they cant remember this. 
Yorkshire didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs L. So this means  it didnt have to check 
if the PPI was suitable for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs L got the 
information they needed to decide  if it was right for them. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Yorkshire  gave Mr and 
Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But based on what  Ive seen of   
Mr Ls circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover. Such as unusual working patterns or existing medical 
conditions.
Mr L says he would have  had some sick pay benefits from his employer but the policy only 
covered him if he became  unemployed.
Ref: DRN47130482Mr and Mrs L were  borrowing funds against a large and long term financial commitment, 
which was secured on their home. So I think having the security that their mortgage 
repayments would be made if Mr L was made  redundant  would have been important to 
them. And theyve  said they didnt have  any savings or other  means they could have relied  
on. So it looks like the policy  would have been  useful for them if something went  wrong.
From everything Ive been given, looks like the policy  was affordable  for them.  And the policy  
could have been cancelled at any time had their needs changed. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Overall I dont think Mr and Mrs L have lost out by anything Yorkshire might have done 
wrong. Which means Yorkshire doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs L.
But Yorkshire has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L because: 
Yorkshire got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because Yorkshire didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs L, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Yorkshire has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs L any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 July 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4713048