K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R are complaining about  their mortgage with The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS). In broad terms, theyre unhappy that RBS wont  wait any longer  to allow  them to sell 
their property in order to repay the debt.
background 
Mr and Mrs R had an RBS mortgage theyd taken out in the 1990s. They sold that property 
in October 2007  and moved into a rented property briefly until they completed  their new RBS 
mortgage in 2008. The terms were set out in the mortgage offer in December 2007. The 
offer said RBS hadnt recommended  the mortgage,  and that Mr and Mrs R must make 
your own choice whether  to accept this mortgage  offer. The offer went on to explain it was 
for a mortgage amount of £170,000 on an interest-only basis  with a three-year mortgage 
term. It showed the property purchase price was £407,000.
The mortgage completed on 31 March 2008.  Over  the next few years Mr and Mrs R made 
some lump  sum payments that reduced the balance. In September  2010 they asked to 
extend the term so thered be two years  and three months to run, allowing them  to take a 
new fixed rate product  (which was due to be fixed until 30 November 2012). Mr and Mrs R 
then applied for a £17,500  further  advance in October 2010 on an interest-only basis with a 
three-year term. That completed on 8 November 2010.
At the end of 2012 and the start of 2013 RBS discussed with Mr and Mrs R what their 
intentions were as the mortgage term was coming to an end. One option put forward by RBS 
was to switch the mortgage onto a capital repayment basis,  but Mr and Mrs R turned that 
down as they didnt feel the monthly payments were sustainable. By now Mr and Mrs R were 
living abroad, where theyve remained to date. Initially the property was rented out, but I 
understand its been empty since Mr and Mrs R put it on the market  in 2014.
I understand that there havent  been any formal longer term extensions since 2013; instead 
there have  been  regular  reviews that allowed Mr and Mrs R another  set amount of time to 
sell their property.  Each of these has been noted  that it was simply allowing more  time for 
the property to be sold. Mr and Mrs R have admitted they were told in 2013 that they no 
longer qualified for the mortgage  and it was necessary to put their house  up for sale, which  
they did and the house went  on the market in 2014.
There was a mistake made  in 2016 which I wont go into here as it doesnt impact  on this 
complaint, but it related to RBS not issuing the right paperwork  before action was taken. 
Whilst that complaint  was upheld, that doesnt  mean  RBS cant  take action, rather  that it just 
didnt follow  the right process in doing so.
Mr and Mrs R complained  to RBS in 2018 after it said no more time would be allowed and 
issued default  notices. RBS rejected the complaint,  saying the term had ended a long time 
ago and the mortgage debt was still outstanding. Our investigator  didnt  uphold  the 
complaint. Mr and Mrs R didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN46569682I trust Mr and Mrs R wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed  their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute  resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what 
I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered  the whole file Ill 
keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont  comment on any specific  point  its not 
because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment  on it in order  to 
reach the right outcome.
The root of the complaint  is that Mr and Mrs R werent ready to repay their mortgage when 
the original term ended,  nor were they ready  to repay it after the various  extensions  ended.  
The only way they could do so was to sell the property. Its important to bear in mind that 
Mr and Mrs R arent  living  in this property (and havent for many years)  so theyre not going 
to be made  homeless by the sale of the property. Its also important to bear in mind that 
Mr and Mrs R agreed  to repay the debt at the end of the three-year term when they took the 
mortgage out in March  2008. Theyre obliged to do so but thus far havent, and thats the 
starting point in determining whats fair in this case.  Whilst  they formally extended that 
deadline over the years,  the final extension ended some time ago.
RBS has already allowed Mr and Mrs R many years since  the term ended so it seems its 
given plenty of forbearance for Mr and Mrs R to find a way to repay the debt. I understand  
the property is on the market, but bearing in mind thats been the case  since  2014 and 
nothing has come of it yet Im not persuaded that RBS needs to place action on hold any 
longer.
RBS has a duty to make  sure that any potential hardship being suffered is dealt with fairly,  
making sure all viable  options  have been  explored.  That said,  it doesnt appear that financial 
hardship is what drives Mr and Mrs Rs desire for more time.  They  have the house they can 
sell to repay the money they owe (which is what they say they intended  to do when they 
applied for the mortgage in 2007); its just that they prefer to maximise the sale price.  I can 
understand that, but not allowing  them  even  more time to do this isnt unfair treatment  by 
RBS. Its already waited  quite a bit longer for repayment than it agreed  to when it first 
granted the mortgage. It doesnt  have to keep waiting indefinitely.
Mr and Mrs R have said that since the original mortgage granted  they have not defaulted in 
anyway and are entitled  to have the original  agreement  honoured. They  say RBS want to 
breach the agreement and reclaim  the outstanding amount. Unfortunately this is where 
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  fails. Mr and Mrs R have defaulted on the mortgage agreement; 
they did so the moment  they didnt repay the entire amount they owed when the mortgage 
term ended. The contract  they entered into was that they would repay the outstanding debt 
in full by that precise date. It wasnt that theyd repay  it when the property sold at some 
unspecified point  in the future. So RBS is honouring the agreement  Mr and Mrs R entered  
into.
Ref: DRN46569683Theyve also said RBS hasnt suggested an alternative means  for repaying  the balance  as a 
solution. But thats not something RBS could get involved  with as that requires financial 
advice to be given,  something Mr and Mrs R would have to seek  independently  if they wish 
to do so. RBS cant offer independent finance  advice  to Mr and Mrs R for this as its not 
authorised to do so.
This was never a rolling  mortgage agreement;  it had a set end date and once  that date 
passed RBS was within its rights to immediately seek possession of the property. Instead its 
tried to work  with Mr and Mrs R to allow them time to sell the property themselves. The fact 
RBS allowed  the situation to continue  for a number of years didnt bind it to continuing to 
offer Mr and Mrs R that forbearance indefinitely. A property is only worth  what  a person is 
willing to pay for it, and RBS has been  more than patient in allowing Mr and Mrs R so long to 
sell the property themselves, it simply doesnt have to wait any longer.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs R to accept  or reject  my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4656968