K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Novaloans Ltd (trading as CASH4UNOW.CO.UK)  lent him money that 
he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr P took out one loan with CASH4UNOW  in August 2017. He was due to repay the £400 
loan by six monthly instalments of about  £115.
Mr P thinks  that if CASH4UNOW had carried out better checks, it wouldve seen that he had 
a significant gambling habit which wouldve prevented CASH4UNOW from agreeing to lend.
CASH4UNOW says that Mr P told it that his net monthly income was £1,300 with monthly 
outgoings of £723.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ps complaint be upheld. He thought  that although it 
appeared that Mr P had enough disposable income  to afford the loan, CASH4UNOW  
shouldve realised that the zero figure  Mr P gave for loans  and payday  loans wasnt  
accurate. The adjudicator  thought that with better checks, CASH4UNOW  wouldve 
discovered that Mr P owed £650 to other payday lenders making the loan unaffordable.
CASH4UNOW did not accept the adjudicators view. It said that the credit search it carried 
out didnt show  any outstanding payday loans. CASH4UNOW said that it wouldve expected 
to see significantly more  payday lending use where a customer was gambling  heavily. 
CASH4UNOW said that although the credit search did show an outstanding loan balance of 
over £12,600, after making his monthly  payments to CASH4UNOW,  Mr P wouldve still been 
left with more than £462 for other loan payments. So CASH4UNOW said it did take account 
of the information it saw in Mr Ps credit file.
my provisional findings
After considering all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  I was minded not to uphold  this complaint. 
I issued my provisional decision on 3 December 2018.
Before agreeing to lend to Mr P, CASH4UNOW had to make  sure that he could afford to 
repay the loan.  Affordability checks should  be proportionate. What is proportionate  depends  
on things like  but not limited  to  the size of the loan,  the repayments,  what  CASH4UNOW 
knew about Mr P, and the things he told it about  his circumstances.
This was Mr Ps first loan and the monthly  repayments represented  a fairly modest 
proportion of his declared monthly income. CASH4UNOW asked Mr P for details of his living 
costs and credit commitments, including payday loans. CASH4UNOWs records showed  that 
Mr P didnt put anything  down for loans or payday  loans.
CASH4UNOWS credit  check didnt show any outstanding payday  loans  and there wasnt 
any record of Mr P applying for one in the previous 12 months. So I didnt think that 
CASH4UNOW had any reason to press Mr P for further details of his other  payday  loans.
Ref: DRN45162392I agreed that the credit check result for outstanding loan or loans was at odds with the zero 
figure that Mr P gave  to CASH4UNOW. I thought this discrepancy shouldve prompted  
CASH4UNOW to ask a few more questions about  Mr Ps regular credit  commitments. 
Just because I didnt  consider  a lender carried out adequate checks didnt necessarily mean 
that I must uphold the complaint. I would have needed to be satisfied  that what  I consider to 
have been proportionate  checks wouldve shown CASH4UNOW that Mr P couldnt  afford  to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way  that is without  borrowing further.
It seemed to me that the outstanding loan balance that CASH4UNOW identified  on the credit 
search was likely to relate,  in the main,  to one of two loans. Either  a loan that Mr P took out 
in February 2017  and then repaid a few weeks before taking  out the CASH4UNOW loan. Or 
a loan that Mr P took out immediately on repaying the February  2017  loan. Both loans were 
with the same lender. The monthly repayments on the February 2017 loan were £208,  rising 
to £238 for the August 2017 loan. 
Even if added  the highest of the loan repayments  to Mr Ps declared outgoings of £723, it 
wouldve still appeared that Mr P could afford the CASH4UNOW loan. So I didnt think  better 
checks wouldve made a difference.
I wouldnt have expected CASH4UNOW  to go as far as independently verifying the 
information Mr P gave by asking to see evidence such as bills or bank statements. This 
meant that CASH4UNOW couldnt have  known about Mr Ps gambling problem unless hed 
mentioned it.
Overall, I didnt  think that CASH4UNOW  was wrong  to lend to Mr P. So I didnt require  it to 
pay him any compensation. 
further submissions
Neither Mr P nor CASH4UNOW responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As I havent  been  asked to consider any new information by Mr P or CASH4UNOW it follows  
that I make my final decision  along  the same lines as my provisional  decision. Im sorry that 
this is likely to disappoint Mr P.
Mr P previously asked CASH4UNOW  whether  he could make  reduced monthly  payments  
due to financial difficulties. If Mr P hasnt done so already, I urge him to make contact with 
CASH4UNOW to try and agree a repayment plan. If Mr P does  this, I expect CASH4UNOW 
to treat any proposals  that he might  put forward sympathetically and reasonably.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN45162393Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4516239