K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies. The first one was 
taken out in 2008, the other in 2010.  Ms F says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS),  Halifax at the 
time mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Ms F hasnt given us a lot of detail about what happened at the times these PPI policies 
were sold to her. And unfortunately due to the length  of time thats passed, there are limited  
documents now available for me to see. But Ive considered  all the available  evidence to 
come to a decision on what I think is more likely to have happened.  
Ive seen copies  of the mortgage offer letters from both the 2008 and 2010  sale.  These both 
informed Ms F that you do not need to buy any insurance through Halifax . Ive also seen 
copies of the welcome letters which were  sent to Ms F following the sale of each  of these 
policies. These begin  with the words Thank  you for choosing our optional  Halifax  Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan and then go on to detail the cover chosen. Even though Ms F 
wouldve received  these documents after shed already agreed to the cover  I think  its clear 
from the wording that the PPI policies were  optional and she had chosen  to take it out. So if 
she didnt initially know the PPI was optional, or didnt consent  to it being added, I think  she 
wouldve raised this with Halifax when she received these letters. 
So overall I think its more  likely  than not that Halifax made it clear that Ms F didnt  have to 
take out the PPI policies and she chose to take them  out  although  I can understand if she 
cant remember this.
Ms F says she wasnt given any advice or recommendation  to take out these PPI policies.  
But Halifax  said that it wouldve recommended the PPI on both occasions,  and based on the 
evidence Ive seen  I agree  these sales were recommended. I say this having seen a 
demands and needs  document for both sales which outline the advice given at the time. 
As a recommended  sale Halifax had to check that the PPI policies were right for Ms F  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances from 2008 and 2010,  I think that both policies 
were suitable for her. I say this because I havent  seen  any evidence  she wouldve been 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the cover and she seems to have had a need  
for the cover.
Ms F says she couldve relied  on her family  to help her make her repayments if she was 
suddenly unable to work. But help from others cant always be guaranteed as their 
circumstances can also change. Ive also seen evidence that Ms F wouldve received some  
sick pay from her employers, but the evidence around this is inconsistent. In any event, the 
PPI wouldve  paid out for up to 12 months  and in addition to any sick pay she wouldve had 
Ref: DRN44188342at the time - so these  funds were free to use for other expenses.  And so I still think  the PPI 
policies were suitable for her. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms F about  the PPI in 2008 and in 2010  wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But it seems  like the policies would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like they were  affordable for her at the time. So I dont  
think better information about  the PPI policies  would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI policies were  mis-sold. So BoS doesnt need  to refund 
everything Ms F paid for it. But BoS has already  offered to give Ms F back some of the cost 
of the 2008 PPI policy. It has not made an offer in relation to the 2010 policy. I dont  think it 
needs to do anything more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Ms F now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4418834