K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains that delays caused  by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  in 
terminating his hire purchase agreement resulted in him facing additional storage charges. 
He wants these to be refunded.  He also feels the business made  it difficult for him to raise a 
complaint.
background 
Mr P tells us that on 14 December 2017  he was involved  in an accident  in his vehicle. He 
states that the vehicle was then seized by the police when it was discovered his insurance 
had been cancelled due to missing  two direct debit payments. He says he promptly notified 
VWFS that hed breached the terms of the hire purchase agreement. Mr P says the vehicle 
wasnt collected by VWFS until the end of January 2018 by which time hed incurred charges 
of over £2,000.
VWFS said that Mr P had advised it that his vehicle had been seized by police on 14 
December 2017  due to having  no insurance.  It said that hed stated  a complaint had been 
raised with his insurers due to that company saying it wouldnt be paying  out after the 
accident - even though it seemed likely  the vehicle would be written off. VWFS  said that it 
had issued a notice of default  on 8 January 2018 which  expired  on 27 January. And that it 
terminated the agreement on 29 January and arranged for the vehicle to be collected. It said 
it was Mr Ps responsibility to pay the storage and recovery charges arising  from the seizure 
of the vehicle.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said that VWFS had 
waited to see if Mr P was able to resolve his complaint  with his insurers. And when that 
hadnt happened it had issued a notice of default on 8 January 2018. She said that she 
thought VWFS had acted  fairly and wouldnt be recommending it waive the charges. She 
advised that VWFS had offered £100 due to difficulties Mr P had experienced in trying  to 
raise his complaint.  And she thought this was fair.
Mr P didnt accept this outcome. He said it hadnt been explained to him that VWFS  wouldnt 
terminate the agreement if he arranged for it to be reinsured. As its not been possible to 
resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been  asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr P had such an unpleasant experience  both in terms of the accident with his 
vehicle and the consequences that followed. And I understand  that hed be upset to incur 
recovery and storage charges when hed notified  VWFS of the circumstances  so promptly.
The basic  facts of this complaint  arent  in dispute.  Mr P was involved in an accident which  
led to the seizure  of his vehicle by the police on 14 December 2017. He notified VWFS of 
this on 15 December and the vehicle was recovered  from the police on 30 January 2018.
Ref: DRN41569452I should explain that I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. And the 
relevant law here includes procedures contained in sections 165A  and 165B of the Road  
Traffic Act 1988 (RTA). Briefly summarised, this legislation permits the police to seize a 
motor vehicle which isnt complying with insurance  requirements. And it sets out the 
conditions under which a seized vehicle  may be recovered. This involves the registered 
keeper or owner providing documentation  including a valid insurance certificate in relation to 
the vehicle.
 VWFS didnt  issue a notice of default in respect of the breach of the insurance  requirement 
until 8 January 2018. This delay was explained  as resulting from the desire  to see if Mr Ps 
complaint with his insurers  would be resolved. I think this was fair as it left open the 
possibility that if the complaint was settled  it might avoid the need for a default  notice. When 
it became clear the matter was unlikely to be resolved VWFS issued  the default notice. 
VWFS was required  to send a notice  of default  and to wait to see if the terms set out in that 
notice were met. Here  that required Mr P to comprehensively insure the vehicle by 27 
January. When that didnt  happen it arranged for the vehicle to be collected and this 
occurred on 30 January. I dont consider this was unreasonably delayed.
It seems  to be part of Mr Ps complaint that it was VWFS responsibility to collect the vehicle 
after hed given  notification  of its seizure. Or alternatively, to have told Mr P that if he got the 
vehicle insured it wouldnt terminate the agreement.  I dont agree that VWFS did anything  
wrong in respect  of either  of these issues. Ill explain why.
The hire purchase agreement (at section 3) which Mr P entered contained  a term that meant 
hed be liable for charges arising  out of the seizure of the vehicle. I dont think it was open to 
him to pass  responsibility  for these charges to VWFS simply by advising them the vehicle 
had been seized.
Also when a vehicle is seized under the provisions of the RTA the notice of seizure is 
required to contain  information to explain how the vehicle  can be recovered. Ive referred to 
this earlier. Im not able to say if Mr P read the notice. But Im satisfied  he ought reasonably 
to have known  that hed have been able to arrange  for the recovery of the vehicle himself 
(and the avoidance of storage charges) by re-arranging for it to be insured. The charge for 
the initial recovery of the vehicle (£250)  arose  from the seizure itself so wouldve been 
payable by Mr P in any event. Its not up to VWFS  to explain to Mr P how to exercise his 
legal right to recover the vehicle.
Similarly I think the notice of default  was clear in its contents. It read (my underlining): 
 3. The action required to remedy  the default:
You must comprehensively insure  the vehicle by 27 JAN 2018.
IF THE ACTION REQUIRED BY THIS NOTICE IS TAKEN BEFORE THE DATE  SHOWN  
NO FURTHER  ENFORCEMENT ACTION WILL  BE TAKEN IN RESPECT OF THE 
BREACH.
It might be argued that VWFS couldve explained  this earlier  in one of the telephone contacts 
which took place  prior to the issue of the default  notice. But VWFS reasonably believed  Mr P 
was seeking to resolve the complaint with his insurers. And that mightve avoided a default 
situation.
Ref: DRN41569453Im aware Mr P thought VWFS  was trying to make  it difficult  for him to complain. But each 
business is entitled to have procedures  to regulate which  of its employees is permitted to 
handle particular types of complaint. I can understand that these processes might seem 
unduly bureaucratic  to someone  who merely wishes to get an explanation as soon as 
possible. But its not for me to tell VWFS how to organise its interactions with its customers. I 
think the offer it made of £100 to reflect any distress and inconvenience Mr P may have felt 
is fair and reasonable. And I shant ask it to do anything else.
In summary,  I empathise with the situation in which Mr P found himself. But I dont think 
VWFS did anything  wrong in the time and manner in which  it terminated  the agreement  and 
recovered the vehicle. Im upholding the complaint on the limited basis that the difficulties 
faced by Mr P in getting his complaint logged mightve been  handled  better.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint but only in 
part.
I require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to pay £100  to Mr P in respect of 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4156945