K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) gave him loans that he 
couldnt afford to repay. He asks that it refunds interest and charges and removes 
information about the loans from his credit file.
background
Mr M took out a £500 loan with Mr Lender  in 2013.  He says Mr Lender was irresponsible  to 
lend to him and to let him roll over his loan six times. He says his credit file showed he was 
in financial difficulty due to his gambling problem.  Mr M says his financial situation meant he 
had to roll over the loan and take out other short  term loans. 
Mr Lender offered to refund £245.  Mr M says this isnt enough. He says the loan shouldnt  
have been offered to him and Mr Lender  should refund all of the interest he paid (about 
£1,000) plus 8% interest. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She said Mr M rolled 
over the loan six times, which  wasnt sustainable. The adjudicator  said Mr Lender  should  
refund interest  from 30 September  2013, with 8% interest, and remove  negative information 
recorded on Mr Ms file after this date.
Mr Lender didnt agree with all of the adjudicators recommendations. Mr Lender said it 
would refund interest and charges applied after 30 September  2013 not including  the last 
interest paid as this was still due. It said if it had stopped lending after the three rollovers,  
Mr M would still have  owed £675.  Mr Lender offered  to refund £599 plus 8% interest. Mr M 
asked for an ombudsman to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr M took out a loan of £500 with Mr Lender in July 2013. Mr Lender needed to make sure it 
didnt lend to Mr M irresponsibly. It needed  to carry out proportionate  checks to understand 
whether this loan was sustainable for Mr M.
Generally, I think its reasonable for a lenders checks  to be less thorough   in terms of how 
much information it gathers and what it does to verify  that information  in the early stages of 
a lending relationship. 
Mr Lender recorded  Mr Ms monthly  income as £2,500. It says its credit  check  showed Mr M 
had an above  average credit  score.  It says the credit  check didnt show any defaults, court  
judgements or bankruptcy. 
From what  Mr M has said, his circumstances were difficult at that time. But I dont think Mr 
Lender knew this. Given the amount of the loan, what was apparent about Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time and that this was his first loan,  I dont  think  it would have been 
Ref: DRN49638882proportionate for Mr Lender to ask him for the amount of information  needed to show  the 
lending was unsustainable.  
There wasnt anything in the information Mr M provided  or the information  Mr Lender  should 
have been aware  of, which meant  it would have  been proportionate  to start verifying what  
Mr M told it. 
In the circumstances, I dont think it was wrong  for Mr Lender to offer the loan to Mr M.
The loan agreement  dated 4 July 2013 required Mr M to pay £175  at the end of July and 
£675 at the end of August  2013. However,  the agreement also said it had a duration of 26 
days and the total amount due was £675.  This suggests a final repayment of £675  was due 
at the end of July 2013. The account statement says the loan was rolled over at the end of 
July 2013. I think  its reasonable to say the loan was first deferred at the end of July 2013.
Mr M asked  Mr Lender to defer (roll over) the loan six times: the last rollover  meant the loan 
was due at the end of January 2014. Mr M didnt repay the loan in January 2014. He agreed 
a repayment plan with Mr Lender in March 2014.
In mid-2013, good industry  practice  was developing that said customers  should  be allowed 
no more than three rollovers. I think here, Mr Ms repeated request to defer  repayment  of the 
loan was enough to suggest  he might be experiencing financial difficulty.
I dont think Mr Lender should have allowed Mr M to defer repayment of the loan more  than 
three times. Ive considered what Mr Lender said in response to the adjudicators view about 
the interest that should be refunded.
Mr Lender applied interest at the start of each loan or rollover  period. It applied  £175 interest 
on 4 July 2013, when Mr M took out the loan. It applied £175  interest  on each of 31 July, 2 
September and 30 September  2013  when it rolled over the loans. I agree its entitled to this 
interest. 
But, as I dont think Mr Lender should  have allowed further rollovers after 30 September  
2013, I think it should:
Refund all interest  and charges paid by Mr M in respect of rollovers  that took place after 
30 September 2013;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*;
Remove any negative  information recorded as a result of the loan being  deferred after 30 
September 2013 from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN49638883my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order PDL Finance Limited to take the steps and 
pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4963888