K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  about the impact  TSB Bank plcs IT issues  have  had on her. She wants  
further compensation from TSB Bank plc for the distress and inconvenience caused  to her.
background
TSB experienced IT issues following their systems upgrade towards  the end of April 2018.
Miss S says that because of TSBs IT issues, she was unable  to access her mobile banking, 
had returned direct debits,  had to borrow money from a colleague, couldnt make  her rent 
payment and spent  a lot of time chasing  TSB about the complaint. 
In December 2018 TSB awarded Miss S £250 for the distress and inconvenience  caused to 
her and a further  £50 for expenses she may have incurred because  of them. Miss S says 
TSB should have  been courteous and told her that they were  making  this payment so that 
she could decide  whether  to accept or reject the offer but they didnt do this. In any event, 
Miss S felt that the award didnt compensate her sufficiently for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her. She wanted  a further  £200 plus call costs  for all the chasing 
she had to do and so brought the complaint  to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that TSB pay Miss S a further £50 on top of the £250 they 
had already paid her towards distress  and inconvenience (plus  the £50 in costs) caused to 
her. However, Miss S didnt think this was enough and so the complaint has come to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I uphold Miss S complaint to the extent that I think she suffered distress and 
inconvenience because  of TSBs  IT issues and the way in which  they handled her complaint. 
But I think a total award  of £300  for distress and inconvenience plus £50 for costs Miss S 
may have  incurred is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint and so I wont  be 
asking TSB to do anything further. I will now explain why I have reached this outcome.
I havent seen  sufficient evidence to conclude  that Miss S was unable  to meet her rent 
payment because of TSB. I understand that not being able to pay her rent made things very 
stressful for Miss S and resulted in an eviction notice being  served  on her. However, 
because I havent  seen sufficient evidence to conclude  that this was because  of TSB, I cant 
take this into account  when  considering the impact of TSBs IT issues on Miss S. 
However, I appreciate  that Miss S had to borrow money from a work colleague because she 
was unable to use her account  and that this was embarrassing for her. She says she was 
expecting funds to be credited  to her account which didnt  happen  when it was supposed  to. 
But she has also said that the funds were credited but she couldnt withdraw the money. 
Although its not clear  to me when and what funds Miss S was waiting to be credited into her 
account or whether she was actually unable  to withdraw money, I note that at the very least 
Miss S had difficulties accessing funds and I accept  it must have been embarrassing for her 
to have had to borrow money  from a work  colleague.
Ref: DRN48288572I have no doubt  that Miss S did spend a considerable  amount of time chasing up TSB 
whether in branch or on the phone and that she didnt receive the customer service  she 
should have. However,  I also note that although she didnt choose to do so, Miss S could 
also have brought  this complaint to us earlier.
Miss S has mentioned returned  direct  debits and receiving a text message about being  over 
limit. TSB have explained  that the reason the direct debits would have been returned unpaid  
is because there were insufficient  funds in her account. However,  TSB are aware  that there 
was some confusion surrounding pending  transactions and available balances  which  could 
also have made it difficult for Miss S to manage  her finances. As I understand it TSB have 
waived any overdraft fees and interest  charges as well as any returned item fees for March,  
April and May 2018 billing periods  anyway.  
So although  of course its very difficult to measure in financial terms the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss S, I think given the particular circumstances of this case  £300 
for distress and inconvenience  caused to Miss S as well as £50 towards expenses is a fair 
and reasonable amount.  As Miss S hasnt provided evidence  of call charges she may have 
incurred on top of the £50 TSB have  already  paid her, I havent been able to recommend  a 
further amount  for expenses. I understand that TSB have already credited  Miss S account 
with £350 altogether. 
my final decision
I uphold Miss S complaint against TSB Bank plc.  TSB Bank plc should pay Miss S £300 for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  to her as well as £50 towards expenses if they 
havent done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4828857