K821x#15complaint
Mr R says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about thirteen high-cost short term credit  instalment loans that Sunny 
provided to Mr R from March 2015 onwards. Mr Rs last loan was provided in February 2016. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Rs complaint and thought  he shouldnt have been  provided with 
any of the loans from loan 6 onwards. Sunny disagreed with our adjudicators assessment. 
So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr R could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr R, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mr R was unlikely to have been  able to make his payments  in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided loan 6. 
Ref: DRN48790782I say this because  by this stage  Mr R exhibited a borrowing pattern of taking out further 
loans not too long after repaying previous ones. Loan 6 was taken while  loans 4 and 5 were 
outstanding and less than a month  after loans 1 and 2 had been  repaid. In my view, this 
ought to have alerted Sunny to the fact that Mr R might have been borrowing to cover  the 
hole making payments to Sunny was leaving in his finances. 
Sunny continued  lending  to Mr R even  when this pattern  was repeated  and in circumstances 
where it ought reasonably to have realised  that any further loans were more likely than not 
unsustainable for him. 
Mr R had to pay interest  and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt  have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr R paid on loans 6 to 13;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the number of loans  provided means that any information recorded about loans 6 to 13 
on Mr Rs credit  file is likely to be adverse. So all reference to these loans should be 
removed from Mr Rs credit file.
If outstanding  balances remain on loans 12 and 13 after all adjustments  have  been  made,  
Sunny can deduct  this from the compensation it now needs  to pay Mr R. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Rs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Mr R compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4879078