K820x#14complaint
Miss Hs complaint relates  to a claim she made under a warranty she took out to protect a 
mattress.  She is unhappy that Amtrust Europe Limited has declined  the claim.
background
In 2017 Miss H bought a new mattress. Alongside the purchase she also bought a Bed 
Protection Plan, including mattress protector,  which protected the mattress  in the event of 
accidental staining  or accidental  damage.  It provides  cover if the cause of the damage can 
be identified and the mattress protector bought in connection with the plan had been  used. 
The plan started on 3 May 2017.
Accidental Staining was described as sudden and unintentional spills of food,  drinks,  human 
and domestic pet bodily fluids, cosmetics,  dyes, tar, inks, glue,  soaps, wax, paints and 
caustic solutions which resulted in a stain.
It was also explained  that any gradually occurring stain or damage,  any gradually occurring 
general soiling which results in build-up  and any multiple stains occurring over a period of 
time; would not be covered by the plan.
In February 2019  Miss H made a claim under  the plan. She explained  that the mattress had 
been turned  and she had discovered marks on it, which she believes had been  caused by 
the elasticated  edges of the mattress protector.
Amtrust examined the mattress protector and looked  at photographs of the marks on the 
mattress. It said no faults or damage  were found on the mattress  protector. It, therefore, 
concluded that as no incidents  had been reported to cause the staining, and no faults  had 
been found with the mattress protector, it declined the claim.
Miss H wasnt  satisfied  with Amtrusts  conclusions  and referred her complaint to this service.
We asked for more details  of the inspection of the mattress protector. Given  the time that 
had elapsed since the inspection, the members of staff that completed  it couldnt remember 
the claim with any accuracy.  However, Amtrust explained the inspection process as follows:
We would  complete a visual inspection on front and back to see if there  is any evidence that 
a stain was caused by spillage that PH might  have been unaware  of, if there is staining or 
material that could  transfer and cause  the stain or if there appears to be any faults like holes 
that could cause staining to reach  the mattress. With this protector no viable staining was 
present and nothing to suggest it had failed or transferred material onto the mattress. 
Amtrust also commented that when Miss H made the claim, she didnt  mention  any staining 
on the mattress protector. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. Whilst she acknowledged how Miss H 
thought the marks  had been caused, she highlighted  that the policy  only provided cover for 
accidental staining.  In light of the definition of staining and Miss H being  unaware of any 
incidents that caused the marks, she was satisfied the marks didnt  satisfy  the terms and 
conditions of the warranty. As such, she didnt recommend  the complaint be upheld.
Ref: DRN42572862Miss H didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She pointed out the mattress was 
expensive and it was clear the protector was the cause  of the damage. She said that it had 
happened gradually over two years and so she hadnt noticed it before. Miss H feels that we 
shouldnt focus  on the policy terms and conditions  as the pictures which blatantly show the 
protector has broken down. She asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H has provided photographs of the mattress protector and the mattress. I can see how 
she has come to the conclusion she has about the damage being caused  by the edge seam 
of the protector. However, the policy she has doesnt provide cover  for such  events. It only 
provides cover for individual unexpected spills  or contacts with of specific list of substances. 
Miss H has herself confirmed she is unaware  of any specific event happening to the 
mattress. Rather she thinks the damage happened  gradually over the two years she had the 
mattress. Unfortunately, for there  to be cover under the policy  there has to be a one-off 
event causing  the stain. Gradual damage is specifically excluded.
I know this will disappoint Miss H, but in light of the nature of the marks on the mattress  and 
how they were likely made, I dont think Amtrusts decision to decline the claim was 
inappropriate.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss H to accept or reject my decision before 
7 March 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4257286