K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  Mr S says 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold him the policy.
background
Mr S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1994. He paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
In the event of a successful claim,  the policy would have paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 
months if Mr S couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Halifax hasnt been able to show us any of the original paperwork from the time of the sale.        
I dont find this surprising  as the sale took place so long ago and the mortgage has now 
been redeemed.  But where there is limited information, Ill make  my decision based  on 
whats more likely to have  happened, taking  into account  the evidence  available, what  both 
parties have told me and what  we know about these  types  of sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Halifax has told us the mortgage was arranged  and the PPI sold during a meeting. Halifax 
has told us that its representative would have  advised Mr S to take out the PPI to protect his 
new mortgage. 
From what  we know of how this type of policy was sold I think  its likely  there  would have 
been some  discussion  of the cover.  Its unlikely  the PPI could have been set up without 
Mr S signing  some  form of application  for it. And the PPI policy was in force  for some  time 
and would have  probably appeared on his mortgage statements. So if Mr S hadnt  asked for 
the policy, or didnt  want the cover Id expect  him to have  questioned it at an early stage. But 
Ive not seen any evidence that he did. 
Taking all this into account, I think its more likely Halifax made  Mr S aware of it, and that it 
was optional and he chose to take it out. Although I can understand why Mr S wouldnt recall  
this after so many years.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check that the policy was right for 
him. And based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time I think it was.
I cant see Mr S would have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover, so he could have  made a successful  claim if he had needed  to.
Mr S has told us he would  have received between six and 12 months sick pay (12 months if 
it was for a work related  reason) from his employer. But this particular PPI policy  could have 
Ref: DRN45766632paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months  if Mr S became  too unwell to work  or lost his job. 
And it would pay the benefit on top of any sick pay, so any benefits could have been used for 
other essential household  outgoings. The benefit  could  also have paid out for longer than 
usual Mr Ss sick pay would last. So despite  his work benefits I still think Mr S would have 
found the policy useful if he became unwell, particularly if he couldnt  work for an extended 
period.
Mr S was solely responsible for the mortgage  repayments. This penalties for not being  able 
to keep up those  payments  are severe  even going  as far as losing your home. so I think 
Mr S saw the policy as an additional layer of financial comfort he wouldnt otherwise have 
had. 
Mr S has told us he could have relied upon  a policy he had with another product provider. He 
says he could have  sold that and would  have received the equivalent of around three  
months pay. But the PPI policy would have meant his other policy could have  remained  in 
place, and for its original  purpose.
I dont know what information about  the policy Mr S was given at the time of the sale. So its 
possible the information Halifax gave him wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.  But I think 
he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it 
would have been useful for Mr S if something went wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable.  
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the policy.  
In summary  I think its most likely  Halifax made it clear the policy  was optional and 
Mr S chose to take it out. Mr S seems  to have had a need for the cover  and the policy looks 
to have been right for him. So even  if Halifax had given him all the information it should  
have, I still think he would  have  bought  the PPI policy for Mr S.
Ive carefully considered  Mr Ss comments about  not knowing he had the policy and 
assuming that it was part of the mortgage deal. But because of what  Ive said, his comments 
dont change my mind.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint against Bank of Scotland 
Plc, trading as Halifax.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  15 April 2019. 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4576663