K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains Airdrie  Savings  Bank  (ASB) allowed an unauthorised transaction to leave his 
account.
background
In June 2014, a withdrawal  for just under £24,000 was made  from Mr Ts account with ASB. 
This was made possible because a withdrawal slip with what  was purported  to be Mr Ts 
signature was presented  at the bank.  The money,  in the form of a cheque, was made 
payable to a firm of solicitors.
But Mr T says he never signed that slip  neither did he authorise the funds to be withdrawn.
He complained to the police about  this and to ASB.  Unfortunately, ASB was going through  a 
process of liquidation,  so the complaint was forwarded onto the administrator who had been 
appointed to handle ASBs affairs.
It seems  no formal response was received by Mr T so he brought  the complaint to this 
service where our investigator  looked into matters for him.
Our investigator thought that the transaction was unauthorised.  He confirmed with the 
administrator that funds  were still available in order to reimburse  Mr T  and in those  
circumstances, he thought the complaint should be upheld.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, ASB can old Mr T liable for a transaction  if the evidence  suggests that 
its more likely than not that he made or authorised it.  In order  for it to be authorised,  ABS 
needs to show  not only that the transaction was authenticated  but that Mr T also 
consented to it being made.
Mr T has provided  this service with a report from a handwriting expert who says,  on her 
analysis of the signature on the withdrawal slip, she does not believe it to be Mr Ts.  Mr T 
has also reported this matter to the police.  I dont think he would have done this if he had 
himself made the withdrawal.
The administrators  are unable to provide  much  information in relation to the transaction as 
ASBs files have been stored  away.
In the circumstances, based  on the evidence I have seen, I am satisfied on the balance of 
probabilities that Mr T did not authorise  this transaction.  In the circumstances, ASB (through 
its administrators) need to reimburse the full amount plus interest.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN44378592Airdrie Savings Bank should:
-refund  £23,819.65 to Mr T
-pay interest at the statutory rate of 8% from the date of the transaction to the date of 
settlement.
-
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4437859