K822xcomplaint
Mrs W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed  to carry out instructions on her business 
loan account.  She says that this caused  further  charges  and for the amount outstanding on 
the loan to be wrong.    
background 
Mrs W has a business  loan with HSBC. Following a missed direct debit repayment in 
October 2018, Mrs W says she contacted HSBC in an attempt to change  her payment date 
and clear the outstanding arrears on the account. 
HSBC say that her direct  debit payment date was not changed. They  have said that instead 
a money transfer  was scheduled for a predetermined  date,  to clear the outstanding arrears. 
HSBC say that this was declined due to insufficient funds. The October  and November direct 
debits were still attempted but declined due to insufficient funds, and charges were  added as 
a result.
Mrs W contacted  HSBC  again in December 2018. It was explained to her that the direct  
debit date had not been changed but that it would be changed going forward  from January. 
Mrs W was also told that the December payment was suspended  and that money transfers 
were scheduled  for January and February, alongside the direct debits, to clear arrears.  
However, the direct debit  was still presented in December and also on two incorrect  dates in 
January and one in February. These were returned unpaid  and led to further charges for  
Mrs W. The direct debit was presented on the correct  date in February. However,  this was 
also returned unpaid  due to insufficient  funds. 
HSBC agreed to refund all charges  that had been applied  due to the failure  to carry out    
Mrs Ws instructions  as previously agreed. Following our involvement, it also offered £150 
for the inconvenience  that these errors had caused and our investigator  felt that the offer that 
had been made was reasonable. 
However, Mrs W has disputed the refund amount  and her outstanding loan arrears. She 
does not feel that the amount offered fairly  compensates  her for the amount of time taken to 
try and resolve this matter  and the interest  she has been charged due to being overdrawn  
following mistakes by HSBC. She remains unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to reach a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied that HSBC  have made  errors that led to incorrect charges being applied  to  
Mrs Ws account. I understand that this will have  been very frustrating and inconvenient  for 
Mrs W and I want  to make sure that she has been  put back  in the position she would have 
been in, had these errors  not occurred.  HSBC have agreed to refund those charges but   
Mrs W has queried the figures presented by the bank. 
Ref: DRN42813282I have reviewed these charges and all further  information provided by HSBC  and Mrs W. I 
am satisfied  that HSBC  have agreed  that all charges  following the errors made by them will 
be refunded or credited back to her account. 
There is a charge from October  2018 that has not been refunded but I believe  this is fair.  
Mrs W has said that she was under the impression that this direct debit would not be 
attempted. However,  HSBC did not agree to suspend  this and so it would not be fair to ask 
them to refund this charge. 
There is also a charge from February 2019  that has not been  refunded.  Although Mrs W did 
pay the necessary  funds  into the account  on the day this payment was attempted,  they did 
not clear in time. It is Mrs Ws responsibility to ensure there  are cleared funds in the account 
for payments such as this to be made. It is fair that there was a charge applied  for this. 
I have been made aware that there were two further  charges in January 2019 that werent 
included in the previous  calculations provided  to Mrs W. HSBC has agreed that they will also 
refund them.  This is as well as increasing the goodwill refund or charges previously offered 
from £101.50, to £104.  
Mrs W has also disputed  the outstanding arrears on her loan account. However, I have  
reviewed what HSBC  has said is still owed  and what has been repaid. I am satisfied that this 
is correct.
HSBC offered Mrs W £150 because they accepted they hadnt  done what they said they 
would. Further to refunding the charges, I think this fairly compensates Mrs W for the 
inconvenience caused by HSBCs errors.  In the circumstances,  I think this is reasonable and 
Im not going  to tell HSBC to do anything  further. 
my final decision
I understand that HSBC UK Bank  plc have  offered   to refund Mrs W two further charges from 
January 2019,  increase the goodwill refund  of charges by £2.50 and pay her £150 to 
compensate for the unnecessary distress it caused  her. I conclude  thats  fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. So my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank plc should  refund      
Mrs W a further  £32.50 of charges and pay her £150  if they havent already done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4281328