K820x#14complaint
Ms Z complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  declined her claim for her daughter under their 
private medical insurance policy.
background
On 16 May 2017 Ms Z took out private health  insurance which  covered herself and her 
young daughter.  The policys on a moratorium basis.
In March 2019 Ms Zs daughter was referred  by her GP to see a paediatrician because  she 
hadn't grown  for a few months. Ms Z says to speed  things up her daughter saw a consultant 
privately and she claimed for the consultation.
Aviva declined the claim. It said the medical  evidence showed that a month before she took 
out the policy Ms Z had taken her daughter  to see the GP about her growth,  in particular her 
height, and in the two years after the policy  was taken out she was seen by paediatricians 
for her height and weight being outside the normal parameters.  That meant under the terms 
of the moratorium  the policy didnt cover  her daughters condition.
Ms Z complained to us. In summary  she said; when the GP measured  her daughter she was 
above the 0.4th centile on the UK girls growth chart; the paediatricians who saw her 
daughter in 2017 and 2018  thought shed grown  well and discharged  her; shed taken her  
daughter to the GP to regularly monitor her height and it was only in March  2019 that the GP 
found her daughter hadn't grown  for a few months; the GPs 2019 referral was for her 
daughter not growing, not because she was short, so the referral was for a different reason. 
Ms Z wants Aviva to pay her claim for the 2019 private consultation. She said her daughter  
had been referred  back  to the NHS for tests  after the private consultation.
Our investigator thought Aviva had fairly  declined the claim.
Ms Z disagrees  and wants an ombudsmans  decision. She said her 2017 concern about  her 
daughters height  was as a mother wanting her daughter to grow as tall as possible,  and 
shed noticed  her daughter wasnt as tall as some of her peers.  But the GP had told her in 
2017 her daughters height was normal so she doesnt  think  her daughter had any symptoms  
of the medical  condition  before joining the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms Z but I dont  uphold this complaint. I have to decide  whether Aviva 
fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I think it did. Ill explain why.
The policy is clear that under  the moratorium terms Aviva will not cover:
treatment of any pre-existing condition,  or any related condition, if you had:
symptoms of
medication for
diagnostic tests  for
Ref: DRN43723112treatment for, or
advice about
that condition  in the five years before you joined the policy
However, we will cover a pre-existing condition if you do not have:
medication for
diagnostic tests  for
treatment for, or
advice about
that condition  during  a continuous  two year period after you join the policy.
The policy defines  pre-existing condition as:
Any disease, illness  or injury for which:
you have received medication,  diagnostic tests, advice or treatment,  or
you have experienced symptoms
whether the condition has been diagnosed or not before you joined the policy.
The medical evidence  Ive seen shows:
in June 2017 Ms Z took her daughter  to see her GP. The GP records say mum 
concerned re height, parents are short, brother aged 3 nearly  as tall as her, v obvious 
when seen in class with peers.  The GP referred Ms Zs daughter  to see a 
paediatrician in the NHS. 
in September  2017 a paediatrician (Dr A) saw Ms Zs daughter. Dr As 
September 2017 letter says Concerns re faltering growth  - weight and height >0.4th 
centile and out of parental range. The letter  continues mum is concerned  about  her 
height. Mum is particularly concerned  for a year or so as it is becoming more obvious 
that (her daughter) is considerably shorter than her peers and is almost  the same 
height as her 4 year old brother.
Dr As letter also says Ms Zs daughter is significantly below the 0.4th centile for both 
height and weight and has fallen across  the centiles. She is out of parental range. 
I am not sure whether  this is a constitutional growth  delay but my plan will be to 
arrange some basic  screening  investigations
in December 2017 Dr A saw Ms Zs daughter again as planned. Dr As 
December 2017 letter says her height  was just below 0.4th centile and in a better 
position that previously and weight  just below 0.4th centile. She had grown  well 
since (Dr A) last saw her. The various  tests had given  normal  results.  A review in six 
months was arranged.
in July 2018 Ms Zs daughter  was seen by another  paediatrician (Dr T on behalf  of 
Dr A) whose  letter said height has increased since last seen and remains  just 
below the 0.4th centile . Weight  remains below the 0.4th centile and not increased  
very much since last seen. She had a slow  pattern of growth but continued to grow.  
Ref: DRN43723113The letter said Ms Zs daughter didnt  need to be seen again but theyd see her in the 
future if there  were  any concerns.
The above  medical evidence shows that before  the policy was taken out Ms Z took her 
daughter to the GP as she was concerned about her height.  Ms Z says she just had a 
mothers natural concern  but she was concerned enough to take her daughter to the GP 
about the matter  and the GP was concerned enough to refer her daughter to a specialist.
Ive not seen any medical evidence that Ms Zs daughter height was above the 0.4th centile 
(so within a normal height  range), as Ms Z suggests. The evidence from Dr A in September  
2017 is that she was significantly below the 0.4th centile  for both height and weight and out 
of parental range which means she was significantly below the norm.  I accept that in the 
later visits  to the paediatrician Ms Zs daughters height had improved against the norm and 
was then just below the 0.4th centile.
But I think Aviva  can fairly  say the medical evidence shows there were symptoms of Ms Zs 
daughters height  and growth being  below the norm,  for which  she took advice, in the five 
years before Ms Z took out the policy  in May 2017.  And there were diagnostic  tests for and 
advice about the condition  in the two years  after the policy was taken out. So under  the 
moratorium terms the condition isnt covered by the policy.
The March  2019  GP's referral letter for Ms Zs daughter says her parents are very 
concerned over her growth she is now smallest in her class and smaller than her brother 
who is 2 years  younger(she) has not grown since the beginning of January this year.  She 
is now below  the 0.4 centile for age.  
Ms Z says the 2019 referral was for her daughter  not growing, not because  she was short,  
so the referral was for a different reason than her 2017 and 2018 medical condition. But Im 
satisfied the 2019 referral  was about her daughters  height and growth being below the norm 
and the medical  evidence  from 2017 and 2018 shows the issues were the same. Aviva can 
reasonably understand that the 2019  referral  and claim was for the same medical condition 
as in 2017 and 2018 so there is no policy  cover.
Aviva fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms Z to accept or reject  my decision before 13 January 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4372311