K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains Everyday Lending  Limited irresponsibly lent to her. She says she lost out 
financially as a result  of Everyday Lendings decision to lend to her. 
background
Miss C took out a loan with Everyday Lending  in January 2017. The loan amount was 
£2,000 and was set to repaid over 24 months with monthly payments of £177.66.
Miss C says at the time the loan was approved she was in serious financial difficulties and 
was in a spiral of debt.  She says when  she approached Everyday Lending, she intended to 
use the money to consolidate some of her existing payday loans to help reduce  her monthly 
payments. She also says Everyday Lending  informed her she could refinance the loan after 
6 months to reduce the interest rate. Miss C says had Everyday  Lending completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks, it wouldve realised she was unable to meet the 
monthly repayments of this loan.
Everyday Lending  says it completed  reasonable and proportionate checks, which included 
obtaining information about  Miss Cs income and expenditure,  as well as checking her credit  
file and bank statements. It says having done these checks it made a reasonable decision to 
lend to her.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and recommended that it be upheld.  He felt 
Everyday Lending  hadnt completed reasonable and proportionate checks. He argued  if 
further checks had been completed, Everyday  Lending  wouldve realised  the decision to lend 
was irresponsible.  Everyday Lending  disagreed with our adjudicator  and as such  the matter 
has been passed to me to issue a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding Miss Cs 
complaint. 
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable  lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Cs complaint.
Everyday Lending  needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate  checks to be able to 
understand if any lending was affordable to Miss C. The relevant rules dont set out which 
specific checks it has to complete for them to be reasonable and proportionate.  But relevant 
checks could include things such as a customers income (over the full term of the loan), and 
their outgoing expenses.  These checks should also be reasonable and proportionate to the 
amount of credit being provided  including  the total amount of credit,  amount of repayments 
and total length of the term. 
As Everyday  Lending gave  Miss C an instalment loan, the checks  which it conducted had to 
provide enough information for it to able to decide if Miss C could afford the instalment 
payments when they became due for the duration of the intended term. And even if 
reasonable and proportionate checks have been  completed, the lender still has an obligation 
to make sure it doesnt lend irresponsibly to a borrower. 
Ref: DRN43714272Everyday Lending  asked for information of Miss Cs income and expenditure as well as 
checking her credit  file. It was also given copies of Miss Cs recent bank statements. Based 
on this information  it says her disposable  income  was sufficient to meet the monthly 
payments. And on that basis the loan was affordable to Miss C. It also says the loan amount 
wouldve consolidated  some of the existing debts. 
Ive considered what Everyday Lending has said about the affordability of the loan based  on 
the checks it completed, but ultimately, I disagree  with its decision to lend. As Ive explained  
above it isnt enough for Everyday Lending  to just complete checks, it still needs to consider  
carefully the information it is supplied by a borrower  before deciding to lend. 
The information which Miss C provided  showed  that she had a number of existing payday  
loans (something  which isnt in dispute), a large  amount of other existing outstanding debt, 
and she was significantly exceeding her overdraft limit. 
Everyday Lending  says this information  doesnt mean Miss C wasnt suitable for a loan. It 
has also supplied a call which shows Miss C saying  she is due a refund for alleged 
fraudulent activity on her credit card. 
I disagree with Everyday Lending.  Im satisfied the information it was provided  demonstrates  
that Miss C was unlikely  to be able to meet the monthly payments without incurring financial 
difficultly. In my opinion the bank  statements  show Miss C was unable  to manage  her 
finances without  having to exceed her overdraft facility regularly. The statements also show 
a number of direct debits  which had been  returned. With this in mind, Im satisfied it was 
unlikely Miss C would have been able to meet the commitments of this loan without incurring 
further debt, and Everyday Lending ought  reasonably to have seen this too. As such, Im 
satisfied the loan was unaffordable  to her and it shouldnt have been provided.
As a result of this, Miss C has lost of financially because she has had to pay interest and 
charges on a loan she shouldnt  have  been given. Because  of this Everyday Lending should 
put things right.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Everyday Lending Limited  to:
Remove any interest and charges applied to Miss Cs account  from when it was 
opened;
Treat any payments that Miss C has made as a reduction of the principle amount;
If this results in Miss C having paid more than what she was initially lent, then any 
extra should  be treated as an overpayment  and refunded to Miss C plus 8% simple  
interest on this amount  from date of payment to date of settlement;
If an outstanding  balance remains on Miss Cs account after all adjustments  have 
been made, then Everyday Lending  needs to come to suitable repayment plan with 
Miss C to pay off the remaining amount;
Remove any adverse  information on Miss Cs credit file about this loan.
Ref: DRN43714273Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Tom Whittington
ombudsman
HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending Limited  to take off tax from this 
interest. Everyday Lending  Limited must  give Miss C a certificate showing how much  tax its 
taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN4371427