K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about the compensation National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) has offered to settle  their complaint about  the mis-sale of payment protection  
insurance (PPI) related  to a loan.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a loan in joint names  with NatWest in March 2007. They also took out 
a PPI policy at the same  time. Mr and Mrs C say they thought the PPI was for joint cover but 
when Mr C tried to make a claim on the policy, he was told it only covered Mrs C. 
Mrs C had however, prior to Mr Cs attempted claim,  already made a claim  on the policy  
which had paid out £28,339.80 towards  the loan repayments.
NatWest said the PPI policy taken out here,  associated with the loan, only ever covered the 
first named  on the loan. In this case  Mr C was the first named, but an error had occurred, 
and the policy was set up by mistake  to cover Mrs C. NatWest  agreed to uphold  that the PPI 
was mis-sold. But it said the compensation due for the mis-sale was far less than the claim 
that had been paid out to Mrs C under the policy, so no compensation for the mis-sale was 
due to be paid directly to Mr and Mrs C.
Mrs and Mrs C were unhappy  with this. The said Mr C should have been able to make  a 
claim when  he was made unemployed and because  this claim wasnt paid,  they had 
defaulted on the loan repayments. Also, as they had believed the PPI had been set up for 
joint cover,  they thought that 50% of the compensation calculated should  be paid to him, as 
he had made no claim to be deducted from what should have been his share  of the 
compensation. 
When Mr and Mrs C had defaulted  on the loan, they say it was because Mr C had been 
unable to make his claim, and this had resulted in both Mr and Mrs C having  their credit 
score affected. They want  compensation to include rectification of their credit ratings, the 
amount unpaid on the debt clearing and compensation for all the trouble and upset this has 
all caused.
NatWest had offered  to pay £75.00  for trouble and upset related to associated  service 
complaints but it is unwilling to pay anything  further for trouble and upset. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and indicated that what  NatWest had done  
in relation to the mis-sale  compensation  was fair and that no further compensation for 
trouble and upset,  over and above  the £75.00 offered by NatWest already,  was due. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs C took out this PPI policy, they say they thought it provided cover for them  
both. The nature of the policy that was purchased  here, would  never have provided joint 
Ref: DRN47162352cover. The terms and conditions are clear that the policy only covers the first named  on the 
loan agreement. 
In this case Mr C was the first named, but for some  reason the policy  was set up in error to 
cover Mrs C. NatWest  cannot explain why this happened and say it looks like it was a 
human error. NatWest  have then upheld that the PPI was mis-sold, so worked  out 
compensation to pay for the mis-sale. This in total came  to £9,341.64.
When a successful claim is paid on a PPI policy, it is considered fair that any claims paid can 
be deducted from the compensation due if the policy is later found  to be mis-sold. This is 
because the aim of the compensation for mis-sold  PPI is to put the consumer, as far as 
possible in the position they would have been in if the PPI had never  been  sold.  If the PPI 
hadnt been sold, no claim could have been  made,  so it is fair to allow any claims paid, to be 
deducted from any mis-sale compensation due.
In this case the claim paid out for the maximum 60 months of the loan repayments which  
could be claimed  for accident or sickness. So, £28,339.80 was paid to Mr and Mrs C for 
Mrs Cs claim. This claim was far more than the total compensation due. So, on that basis  
nothing is due to be paid directly to Mr and Mrs C.
If Mr C had been named  correctly as the person covered  by the policy,  then he would have 
been able to make his claim for unemployment for up to a maximum of 12 months of the 
loan repayments.  So his claim would have paid out a maximum of around £5,667.
In these circumstances although NatWest made an error in setting up the PPI insurance for 
Mrs C not Mr C, Mr and Mrs C have suffered no financial loss as a result of that error as Mrs 
Cs claim paid out far more than if the PPI had been  set up correctly  to cover Mr C.
Mr and Mrs C have also alleged that the cost of the PPI and paying for this contributed to the 
fact they were unable  to make their loan repayments and so defaulted on the loan. I am not 
persuaded that the PPI was the direct  cause of their financial difficulties and their defaulting 
on the loan. 
Mr and Mrs C borrowed £21,000 for their own use in 2007 and also borrowed an extra 
£6,467 for the PPI premium.  These  borrowings were all subject to loan rate interest and the 
loan was to be repaid  over an 84-month  term. In total, including  all interest, Mr and Mrs C 
should have repaid some £39,675.  Without the PPI premium  and interest this would have 
been a total of around £30,335.
Looking at the repayments made, 60 were covered by the PPI claim resulting in over 
£28,000 being paid by the policy. And it seems  Mr and Mrs C only paid around 13 months 
premiums themselves. The debt arrears  at the time of the PPI calculation in 2019 were 
around £5,337,  which  is slightly more than 11 months payments, but could have included 
some charges for the default.
Mrs Cs health problems  and Mr Cs unemployment seem to have caused some financial 
issues for them. And without the PPI claim paying for the 60 months,  it looks  like they would 
have struggled even more financially because of their circumstances.  And it is very likely 
they would  have been unable to meet the loan repayments at far earlier  time, leaving less of 
the loan repaid, if they had not had the 60 months claim paid for Mrs C. Mrs C would still 
have been unable to work due to sickness and so Mr and Mrs Cs finances  would  have been  
stretched much earlier if they had not had the PPI in her name. 
Ref: DRN47162353So overall I dont  think buying the PPI caused  the financial problems Mr and Mrs C 
encountered. The error  made  be NatWest  in putting  the policy in Mrs Cs name  actually 
resulted in them managing their loan repayments for far longer  than if it had been  in Mr Cs 
name, when he could only have claimed a maximum of 12 months payments for 
unemployment. 
The PPI policy, although only in one name, provided benefit to both Mr and Mrs C as they 
were both jointly liable for the loan repayments.  So, payment  of the full monthly payments for 
a claim,  meant they both benefited from the PPI that only covered one of them. As I have 
said earlier, it is considered fair to allow claims to be deducted  from any mis-sale 
compensation due. And that would  mean  taking into account the total claim paid and the 
total compensation due, irrespective of who the policy covered. So although Mr C wanted to 
be covered and wasnt, he has benefitted from the claim  paid for Mrs C as it was to pay the 
repayments for the joint loan for which he had shared liability. Therefore, Mr C isnt entitled  
to any payment directly  of a portion of the PPI compensation because he didnt make  a 
claim. 
I note NatWest has offered to pay £75 for some service issues  that were raised, and I think 
this is fair. As I have already said, NatWests error  in putting the PPI in Mrs Cs name has 
been of benefit, rather  than detriment  and overall Mr and Mrs C have received payment of a 
substantial claim than they would not have been paid if NatWest had not made  the error on 
set up of the policy.
In summary,  Im satisfied  that what NatWest had done in setting the claim amount against 
the compensation due is fair. I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs C have  suffered any 
financial loss as a result of the error  of NatWest in putting the PPI policy in Mrs Cs name,  in 
fact it seems  they have  benefitted.  And I dont think any additional compensation is due to 
Mr C as he has also benefitted  from the claim that has been  paid.  
I think the £75 offered  for trouble and upset  is fair and if this has not yet been  paid NatWest  
should reissue any cheque to Mr and Mrs C for this payment.
Ref: DRN47162354my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I think how National Westminster  Bank  Plc has calculated and 
set off the compensation for the mis-sold PPI is fair, so Im not directing it to pay anything 
more for this. 
I think the £75 for the trouble and upset is fair, but if this remains  unpaid then a cheque  for 
this amount should be reissued to Mr and Mrs C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 November  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4716235