K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that TSB Bank plcs system  issues in 2018  caused him to withdraw more 
money than he could afford. Mr J is unhappy  that despite his ongoing  complaint,  TSB 
defaulted his account and passed  it to its recoveries team.  
background
Mr J had a current account  with TSB with an agreed  overdraft limit of £110.  On 22 April 2018 
Mr J had a positive balance of £30 in his bank account. However, as a result of TSBs  
system issues  at the time, the balance of his account wasnt  displaying  correctly when he 
went to withdraw money. This meant that Mr J couldnt see what  the available balance on his 
account was. During that weekend, he also was unable to check  his account online. 
On 22 April Mr J made  four withdrawals for a total of £180.  He made a further withdrawal of 
£110 the following day, and two further withdrawals  on 24 April for £90. Mr J has explained 
that as he couldnt see his available  balance, he also made  purchases  from his account. All 
this caused his account to be £459  overdrawn.  
Mr J complained. TSB looked  into his complaint and agreed that it should  put things right. It 
made him an offer. Shortly after receiving this offer in January 2019, Mr J was told that his 
account had been passed to recoveries.  
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint, but didnt consider TSB needed  to do 
anymore. In short, he thought that Mr J was likely  aware of how much  was in his account 
and what his agreed overdraft limit was. The adjudicator concluded that while  TSB was 
responsible for the erroneous information that appeared on the cash  machine prior to Mr J 
making a withdrawal, it wasnt responsible for Mr J withdrawing more than his agreed 
overdraft limit. This meant  that Mr J was ultimately responsible for not paying anything 
towards the account between April 2018  and January  2019.  So on that basis,  the adjudicator  
considered TSBs offer of £50 for the financial loss Mr J incurred,  and £325  for the trouble  
and upsets its IT issues caused,  as fair and reasonable. 
Mr J disagreed. He didnt think it was fair that his account with TSB was transferred to its 
recoveries department while his complaint was being investigated by this service. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I understand why Mr J feels that TSBs  actions were wrong.  He has explained that his 
account was defaulted without him being aware  of it, and this has had an effect on his credit 
rating. In turn, this has meant him losing out on a potentially lucrative job as they turned him 
down when they carried out a credit check.  
However, in order for me to determine  that Mr J is right and deserves the level of 
compensation he is asking for, Id need to be satisfied that Mr J was entitled to consider that 
the balance due to TSB was in some  way incorrect. In other words, that his complaint at its 
heart was a dispute about how much he owed  TSB.  
Ref: DRN46268302But Mr J doesnt dispute that he withdrew  money  from his account, nor that he used  his card 
to make purchases. He has alluded to his card not working in some  stores  and him paying  in 
cash, but then those  stores debiting  his account regardless. Even if that happened,  thats not 
something Id expect TSB to resolve   that would  be something for Mr J to pursue with the 
relevant retailers.
Mr J was of course free to raise his complaint  about the impact TSBs system issues had on 
him between  22 and 24 April 2018, and its clear  that he was inconvenienced.  Given the 
issues Mr J experienced, and the impact those issues  had on his spending at the time, I 
agree with TSBs offer of £375. I understand this cheque  has already been issued to Mr J.
But Mr J made no effort to pay anything  towards the overdrawn  balance between  April 2018 
and January 2019. I dont consider that it was reasonable for him to think  that he could pay 
nothing towards his overdrawn balance and expect  TSB to take no action in relation to it. 
And in any event, given  that Mr J clearly understands the importance of his credit file and 
avoiding default  action, I wouldve expected him to have checked with TSB what the status  
of his account was, given  that he paid nothing into his account was some  time. So I dont 
agree that TSB is required to do anything further to put this right for Mr J. And I dont 
consider it acted unreasonably in progressing his account for recovery action. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr J, but Im satisfied TSB need 
not do any more  to put things right for him. 
my final decision
My decision  is that TSBs offer of £50 plus £325  is fair and reasonable. I understand this 
amount has already been paid to Mr J via cheque.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4626830