K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC had stopped sending them 
statements for their account. When they tried to get duplicates, the bank werent  able to give 
them copies in the timescale  they needed. Mr and Mrs M want  Barclays  to pay them  £1,000 
in compensation.  Mrs M has dealt  with this complaint throughout. 
background 
Mr and Mrs M have  a joint bank account with Barclays. At the start of 2019, Mr and Mrs M 
needed their historic bank  statements as Mr M had to give them to his accountant  his 
annual tax return was due by the end of the month.  But when Mrs M checked, the latest one 
theyd received was from May 2017. 
When Mrs M checked their account online, she saw that option to receive statements by 
post had been turned off. Mrs M also saw there  were no statements showing from May 2017  
onwards.
When Mrs M called  Barclays,  it said it would send  her copies of the missing statements 
straight away. Mrs M explained that the statements were needed urgently given the tax 
return deadline. Barclays said they should  arrive in two to five working days.  
After five working days, the statements hadnt arrived. Mrs M called Barclays again. She was 
told the statements  had been ordered  as agreed  on her previous call. But the banks adviser 
couldnt see the statements on his system. 
A couple of days later,  Mr and Mrs M received a letter from Barclays. Copies of bank  
statements were enclosed. But these  were copies of statements Mr and Mrs M had already, 
from May 2017 and before. The statements they needed  from after this time werent  
enclosed. 
Mr and Mrs M went to a local branch  of Barclays. But the branch staff couldnt  see the 
missing statements on the banks systems. So Mr M had to use an estimated set of accounts 
to avoid being penalised by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC).  
Mrs M then complained to Barclays. She sent us a copy  of the complaint. Barclays  explained 
that in May 2017, an item of post sent to Mr and Mrs M was returned by the postal service 
marked gone away, indicating that theyd moved.  Barclays marked its records to reflect  
this. This in turn meant that no further post was sent to Mr and Mrs M. This also meant no 
statements at all were produced during this period. 
Barclays apologised to Mr and Mrs M. It sent copies of its records  of their account dating 
back to April 2017. The bank also credited  £75 to Mr and Mrs Ms account. They  werent 
satisfied with this. So, one of our adjudicators  looked into their complaint.
 
He thought Barclays should pay Mr and Mrs M a further £75 in addition to the £75 it had 
already paid  so £150 in total. The bank agreed to this. But Mr and Mrs M felt this total was 
insulting. They thought a payment of £1,000  was a more realistic amount for all the stress  
and anxiety theyd  been caused. As Mr and Mrs M didnt accept the adjudicators  view,  their 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
Ref: DRN46873712my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Barclays  
agreement to pay a further £75 is fair and reasonable.  Ill explain why. 
Im sorry  to note that Mr M has been unwell. While this isnt relevant to their complaint, Im 
sure this has been stressful for them.  I would like to add my very best wishes  to both Mr and 
Mrs M going  forward. 
When something goes  wrong,  as it has here,  I need to think  about what needs to be done to 
put things right. Barclays has already  provided  Mr and Mrs M with duplicate bank records 
that covers the period where  no statements were being produced.  Its also apologised for 
any upset this issue caused them. Statements  are being produced and sent to them  once 
more. So what I need to decide  is how much  compensation should Barclays pay to Mr and 
Mrs M for the trouble and upset theyve experienced. 
Ive thought about why the statements stopped being produced and sent in the first place. I 
can see that the reason behind this that a piece of post was returned to Barclays marked  
gone away. I accept  this wasnt actually the case. Mr and Mrs M have been at their address 
for more than 35 years. But theres nothing in the available evidence that shows it was an 
error by Barclays that led to the post being  returned  to the bank in this way. 
Like most banks, I can understand why Barclays wouldnt want to be sending  details of 
Mr and Mrs Ms bank  accounts, including their statements, to an address it thought  they no 
longer lived at. Quite naturally, this would be viewed as a security  issue.  Im satisfied 
Barclays put this postal block on their account, which meant  no statements would be 
generated, with the best of intentions - that is, to protect Mr and Mrs M. 
But I can also understand that this went on to cause problems for them, especially when  the 
issue was discovered  so close to the HMRC deadline. Mrs M had to call Barclays about this. 
The bank has told us that its advisers  and branch staff wouldnt have been able to see why 
no statements were being produced.  I can see Barclays has already apologised that its 
adviser could only order duplicates of the statements that already been produced, not 
provide copes of the missing information.  
Mrs M told us that Mr M had to take a day off work  to go to the local branch with her. I can 
appreciate why Mr M would want to go the branch in person. Im satisfied it was his choice to 
go with Mrs M  a choice he was perfectly  entitled to make. But there was no procedural 
requirement or reason that meant  it was necessary for Mr M to take time off work to go with 
his wife. 
I can see that Mrs M told us Mr M also needed to take more time off work to see his 
accountant to explain the situation. Again, I can understand why he might want  to do this. 
But again,  Im not satisfied there  was an absolute  necessity for Mr M to do this. 
I do accept Mr and Mrs M were embarrassed by this situation. But as Mrs M pointed  out to 
us, Mr M had a long standing relationship of more  than 30 years with his accountant. So I 
dont accept any embarrassment Mr and Mrs M felt justifies an award of £1,000. Also,  the 
available evidence doesnt show Mr M was penalised in anyway by HMRC for this issue. 
Ref: DRN46873713I am satisfied that Barclays  investigated this matter promptly. It apologised to Mr and Mrs M, 
sent them the missing information they needed, and paid them  £75.This  was all done in just 
over three weeks from Mrs M first raising  the issue. In all the circumstances here, I think a 
further payment  of £75, bringing  the compensation to £150  in total, is a fair and reasonable 
amount. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should pay Mr and Mrs M a further £75 in 
addition to the £75 its already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4687371