K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI) with their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with PPI in 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their complaint. Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with this view.  They  
have a number  of concerns. But, in summary,  their main complaint is that when they spoke 
to the mortgage  advisor at Halifax they were strongly advised to take out PPI and sold a 
product they didnt  need.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why and deal in my decision 
with all the main issues  theyve mentioned that affect the outcome of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M took out the mortgage  in joint names and they both had PPI. So Ive looked at 
both their circumstances  when the policy  was taken out.  
I think that Halifax probably did make them aware that PPI was optional and they chose  to 
have it. Its completely understandable they mightve  forgotten  this after so long. Theres  a 
section on Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage  application  headed Accident, Sickness and 
Unemployment Insurance where  it says:  We recommend that you consider our Mortgage  
Repayments Insurance Scheme (this was what Halifax called its PPI). So although  I dont 
know what Halifax told Mr and Mrs M about  the PPI I think  they wouldve seen that it was up 
to them  to say if they wanted to take out this insurance. 
Mr and Mrs M have  both signed this part of the form in the box where  it says:  Yes, I would 
like to take advantage of Mortgage Repayments  Insurance . As well as this, Mr and Mrs M 
also completed a separate PPI application  form which they had to sign to get the policy. This 
included an option  to increase the amount of benefit payable. Mr and Mrs M opted  to include 
this extra  benefit  on top of buying cover to protect  their mortgage monthly repayments. 
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs M say they were put under pressure to sign up to 
PPI and their individual needs  werent taken into account. But what  they say isnt enough on 
its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint.  I must look at all the available information 
and decide what  I think is most likely. 
Mr and Mrs M filled in the PPI paperwork a couple  of weeks  before their mortgage actually 
started. So I think they wouldve had plenty of time to get other advice or more information  if 
theyd felt pushed  into agreeing something they werent happy  with. 
Ref: DRN49147012On balance, I think the mortgage  paperwork shows that PPI was presented as optional  on 
the forms they signed and makes it clear that it was up to Mr and Mrs M to say if they 
wanted to take it out with their mortgage. And I find that the policy  was added to their 
account when  Mr and Mrs M indicated they wanted  PPI.
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs M and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable. 
Mr and Mrs M were  both eligible  for the policy. And as they were  both earning and 
contributing to the mortgage the shared  benefit split looks reasonable to me. 
Although Mr and Mrs M both had good  work  benefits, the policy  wouldve covered their 
mortgage monthly repayments in the event  of accident, sickness or unemployment  for up to 
24 months per claim. This was significantly longer than either of them couldve relied on 
getting full sick pay. And they couldve made repeated claims on the policy giving them  long 
term protection for their mortgage.  
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs M had some savings. But I dont know  if they 
wouldve always had savings they could rely on if theyd  needed  to make a claim.  And 
having PPI meant they could keep savings  intact  to provide financial security for the future. 
I think that mightve been an important consideration for Mr and Mrs M at the time as it looks 
like they chose to keep some savings and investments in place  when they took out their 
mortgage rather than use these to pay a bigger deposit on their new home. 
Their mortgage  was a major financial commitment repayable over a significant number of 
years. Looking at Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances  at the time, I think the PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for them and I think the policy  couldve been useful to them. 
Mr and Mrs M were nt affected by any of the main  things the policy  didnt cover. So, I dont 
think it likely  that having better information  about the policys exclusions and limitations 
wouldve affected their decision to take it out.
There was some costs information on the application form Mr and Mrs M filled in when they 
signed up for PPI. And they chose to buy extra cover to pay household bills as well as the 
mortgage. So it doesnt look like the policy was unaffordable for them  or that keeping  costs 
down was a priority.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs M still wouldve decided to buy the policy  if theyd been better informed as 
it gave them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont think  better information 
wouldve put them off buying PPI as it provided worthwhile benefits they wouldnt otherwise 
have had. 
Ive taken into account everything that Mr and Mrs M have told us, including what  theyve 
said in response  to our adjudicators assessment. But they havent mentioned anything new 
that affects my decision about whether Halifax mis-sold them PPI. And overall, I dont find 
that Mr and Mrs M have lost out as a result  of anything  that Halifax mightve  done  wrong.  So 
it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN49147013my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4914701