K820x#14complaint
Mr P says that after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy Aioi Nissay  Dowa 
Insurance Company of Europe SE wouldnt deal with the damage to his car caused by a 
driver whose car hit the rear of his vehicle. References to Aioi include its agents.     
 
background
On 21 November 2018 Mr P told Aioi that another driver had driven into the rear of his car at 
speed. Aioi instructed its approved repairer to provide  a courtesy  car whilst it carried out 
repairs. Two days later the other drivers insurer told Aioi that three cars were involved  in the 
collision. Aioi asked  the repairer to check for other  damage to Mr Ps car. It found damage to 
the front as well as to the rear of it.
On 29 November 2018 Aioi called Mr P to query the facts hed provided. Although it told 
Mr P about  the extra damage, he still said only one car was involved in the accident. But an 
hour later he called Aioi to say his car had been shunted into a third car. The next day he 
called Aioi for an update and was told the claim was on hold whilst Aioi validated  it. The 
advisor said that still had to be done as Mr P hadnt  provided the full details of the accident 
initially. Mr P said Aioi should return his car and hed deal with the damage  himself.
On 4 December  2018 Mr P called Aioi again to enquire about the claim. He asked to speak 
to a manager who explained  to him again that his claim had to be validated. Mr P repeated 
that he wanted his car back. The manager  said shed arrange it. She said the file would 
remain open until May 2019 in case another party made a claim on the policy.
In response to Mr Ps complaint, Aioi said Mr Ps car was returned to him as requested on 
6 December 2018 and that the claims team had caused no delays. It said Mr P had failed to 
provide full details  of the accident,  as required under the policys  terms and conditions.  So 
the claim had to be placed  on hold whilst  it investigated further and determined whether to 
accept it. Mr P wasnt satisfied with Aiois response,  so he complained to this service.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ps complaint. He thought  Aioi had acted fairly. He 
didnt think it was unreasonable  that it was still carrying out enquiries just five days after it 
first got all the facts  about the accident. And he noted that Aioi hadnt refused to pay the 
claim. He said Mr P had withdrawn it before the validation enquiries were complete.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
I think it was reasonable  for Aioi to say that Mr P hadnt met the policys requirements  when  
he only provided partial details of the accident to it. I also think it was fair for it to want to 
investigate all the circumstances of the claim before deciding whether it was going to cover 
it. So in my view Aioi did nothing wrong by putting  the claim on hold. 
Before it was told that a third car was involved, I think Aioi acted quickly  to start to deal with 
the claim.  It seems from the file notes  that it instructed its approved repairer  the same day. It 
Ref: DRN41619752also sent details  of the claim to the insurer of the other driver. The claim was only halted  
when Aioi became  aware of the third car. It also seems that it contacted the garage on 
29 November 2018  the day Mr P first said he wanted his car back  to arrange its return. It 
isnt clear why Mr P didnt  get the car back until 6 December 2018. By then, Aioi had asked 
for its return three  times.  But I think Mr P would have had a courtesy car anyway.    
I dont think Mr P has been able to show that Aioi refused to deal with his claim. Had he not 
withdrawn it, it may have done so after its enquiries  were completed. 
As I dont think Aioi acted  unreasonably, I cant uphold Mr Ps claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4161975