K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms G were  not happy  with the handling  of their claim for subsidence under a home  
insurance policy, in Ms Gs name, with HDI Global Specialty SE. they are unhappy the claim, 
has been declined.  In addition, they believe  there  was a lack of communication between  
HDI, its loss adjuster, the neighbours insurer and loss adjuster, and the two sets of 
homeowners. They are also unhappy  that their conversations were  with HDIs loss adjusters 
rather than directly with HDI.
background
In February 2018  Mr and Ms G made  a claim to HDI as they found cracking in the rear 
projection (outrigger) on their home when they started some decorating. Their neighbours 
already had an ongoing subsidence claim.  HDI arranged for the property  to be inspected  by 
its firm of loss adjusters and subsequently  some site investigations were done.  The 
investigations were  designed to establish  the nature of the ground  beneath  the property and 
the state of the underground drains.
The investigations identified  some  damage  to the drainage runs at the rear of the property. 
One drainage  run was completely blocked  and needed a gully and section of the drain 
replaced. Given the location of this drain, it wasnt considered it leaking could have caused 
the movement  in the outrigger. Another  drainage run was thought  to have  some  
deficiencies, which might be allowing leakage. This drainage run extended along the rear of 
the terrace of houses; the part inside Mr and Ms Gs property boundary was their 
responsibility, but once  it became a shared drain under the neighbours yard,  it became  the 
responsibility of the water  authority.
It was established  that the ground beneath  the outrigger was made ground to a depth of 
1.3 metres. This made ground was described as soft becoming medium  compact sandy, 
very silty clay with brick and concrete pieces, which meant it was of low load-bearing. Made 
ground is ground is a term used  for soil or other  fill materials  that have been imported onto a 
building site, usually  in order to level the site. Beneath the made ground were stiff, low to 
medium plasticity clays. It was also noted  that the foundations were  approximately  750 mm 
deep on the outrigger.
The surveyors report commented that the outrigger  had much  shallower foundations than 
the main house.  The problems with the drainage run at the rear of the outrigger  should be 
fixed and the property monitored.  The surveyor was persuaded  most of the damage was 
historical settlement,  but there might have been  a small amount of recent movement which 
could have been caused by the leaking drains. If the property was found to be stable after 
the drainage repairs, the cracks  could  be repaired.  If there was still movement,  then it would 
have been due to the made ground and that would need to be stabilised. The surveyor  
explained some  policy restrictions for damage  caused by compaction of infill and settlement. 
He also confirmed that damage that had occurred before  the policy existed  was not covered 
by it. 
In May 2018  monitoring of the property was started. The surveyors  report (produced in July 
2019) said that based on the investigations  and the fact that the outrigger had shallower 
foundations than the main house,  it was settling into the made ground and had been since  it 
was built. It wasnt thought the defective drains  or a nearby  tree were contributing to the 
movement. 
Ref: DRN48396892The surveyor went on to explain that settlement  due to poor ground conditions  usually 
slowed over time. He concluded this was the case as the recent  movement was minimal 
when compared  to the historical movement. It was recommended  the drains  be repaired just 
in case they were contributing to the movement and then further monitoring done to 
establish if the property had stabilised. If it didnt, it was detailed  that consideration would 
need to be given to below  ground  stabilisation measures. 
On 19 July 2018 HDI wrote to Ms G and told her the defects to run 6 cannot  be implicated in 
the movement, so your Insurers have  confirmed that they will not be willing to fund repairs  to 
this drain as part of your subsidence claim.
They have also advised that as there is no evidence of any accidental damage having  
occurred to this drain, the repairs cannot be considered under the accidental damage to the 
underground services  section of your policy  either.
In February 2019,  after drainage repairs and monitoring, the surveyor  concluded that the 
extension was still moving at a slow but consistent  rate. As such, the drains  were  not thought 
to have been the cause  of the movement and it was unlikely the underlying clay becoming 
desiccated was the cause as movement  would have increased  in rate due to the hot, dry 
summer of 2018. As such, the engineer concluded the damage was caused by longstanding 
and ongoing  settlement due to the compaction of the made ground underneath the 
foundations. He decided that consideration needed  to be given to below  ground  stabilisation 
measures to prevent  further movement.
In early 2019, before a claim decision had been  confirmed, Mr and Ms G complained  to HDI. 
It responded to their complaint  in March 2019 after it had decided  to decline the claim. It said 
that the investigations completed had identified that the property was moving  because  of its 
own weight and the made ground with low load-bearing  capacity upon  which  it was built. As 
settlement and subsidence caused by compaction  of infill were excluded  under the policy  
terms and conditions, there was no cover  available for the damage to Mr and Ms Gs home. 
It was also satisfied that the investigations made, and the actions taken during the period the 
claim was being assessed, had been appropriate. 
Mr and Ms G werent satisfied with HDIs response  and referred their complaint  to this 
service.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld.  
Mr and Ms G didnt  accept the investigators view and asked that the complaint  be referred 
to an ombudsman for review. Alongside this request, they provided further comment on the 
claim. It was highlighted that it was not just their property that had suffered from subsidence,  
but also the neighbours and two more houses further down the terrace. They questioned 
whether it should  be assumed they were all suffering from the same compacting  or whether 
it should be questioned whether there was a bigger issue involved. 
Mr and Ms G thought it a little odd that the properties had stood for over 100 years  and had 
suddenly started to move. They said it has variously  been indicated that the problem was the 
outrigger itself,  problems caused by the neighbours property and drainage  problems. 
Whereas the neighbour had said the loss adjusters dealing with the claim on that property, 
had blamed the damage on Mr and Ms Gs property.
Ref: DRN48396893Mr and Ms G also commented that throughout they have had, and still are having, problems 
with one of the drains from the outrigger. They dont think there is any evidence  the 
movement isnt down  to the damaged drains.   
I issued a provisional decision on 10 August 2020, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
When an insurance claim such  as the one Mr and Ms G made is being investigated, it will 
be usual for an insurer  to appoint a suitably  qualified business to investigate and assess  the 
claim. This is because  most insurers dont have in-house investigation teams and experts.  
While the claim  is being  investigated, it is normal for the insurers  representative (in this case  
a firm of loss adjusters)  to be the primary contact point for the policyholder.  Whilst I note that 
Mr and Ms G werent happy  with this. I dont think HDI did anything wrong in appointing  and 
allowing the loss adjusters to deal with the claim.  
It has also been raised that the liaison between the insurer/loss adjuster and their 
counterparts in the neighbours  claim was inadequate. It does  appear  that initially  
Mr and Ms Gs loss adjuster was relying on them to obtain information about the neighbours 
claim. I dont  think that was unreasonable given Mr and Ms G and their neighbours were 
clearly talking to each other about  the situation  and it avoided  any potential  data protection  
issues. Once it became  clear that all the information  the loss adjuster needed wasnt going 
to be obtained  by this method, it started communicating with the other  loss adjuster directly. 
Although Mr and Ms G are now unhappy  with this process, I dont think  I can say HDI did 
anything wrong  and no delays were caused as the monitoring had to be completed before 
the surveyor could  reach  any conclusions about the cause of the damage.
The discussion about the cause of the movement initially stated there were three potential 
causes:
Shrinkage of the underlying clay beneath  the foundations;
Leaking drains  causing either small fines in the made ground  to be washed  away  or 
saturating the soil and making it weaker;  or
The made ground having a low load-bearing  capacity.
The surveyor pointed out that if the cause of the damage was shrinkage of the underlying  
clay due to dehydration, the movement  in the property would have speeded up in the dry 
summer of 2018. The monitoring  didnt identify  an increase in the rate of movement and so 
the surveyor concluded that the cause of the movement wasnt  clay shrinkage.  I think  this 
reasoning is persuasive.
In relation to the leaking drains,  the surveyor said in his reports  that the drainage  run across 
the back of the outrigger needed  to be repaired to see if it stopped the movement.  It appears  
this was done, but the further monitoring  results  showed continued movement. So the cause 
of movement wouldnt appear to be the drains leaking.
Although Mr and Ms G arent convinced that the drains arent the cause of the damage,  I am 
satisfied the evidence, including expert opinion, indicates they are not. As such, it would  
appear that the movement of the outrigger is due to the weak  soil beneath  its foundations.  
I note that Mr and Ms G have questioned why, if the soil is unable  to support that section of 
the house, it has only started  moving  recently. Whilst they may have only recently noticed 
the evidence of movement, the evidence shows that this isnt a recent issue.  The evidence, 
Ref: DRN48396894from the size of the cracks to the fact that a significant amount of one of the walls of the 
outrigger has been rebuilt, would  indicate it is not something that has recently started. It 
would appear  that it is likely the outrigger has been very slowly sinking into the made ground 
since it was built. The rate of the movement seems to have been sufficiently slow that 
damage probably took many years to manifest in the first place. This would be supported by 
the evidence of the cracking visible to Mr and Ms G on the surface of their walls  the cracks 
showing through the wallpaper were notably smaller than those revealed when the wallpaper 
was removed.
When a property is first built, it is normal for there to be a small amount of downward 
movement in the building caused  by the weight  of the building  compressing the ground 
beneath the foundations.  If the foundations have been built property, the amount of 
movement will be slight, wont usually cause any significant damage, and will only last for a 
limited period of time. It is generally accepted  that any normal  settlement will occur  in the 
first ten years after the build. 
It is claims for this type of movement that the policy exclusion for settlement is designed and 
included in the terms and conditions to defeat.  As this property was built in the region of 150 
years ago, it is clearly not still suffering from initial settlement and so I dont consider it was 
inappropriate for HDI to have used it in the circumstances  to defeat this claim. 
HDI also mentioned  the exclusion for gradually  operating causes and that this would defeat 
the claim.  In general, subsidence  is a slow process  and can be ongoing for some  time before 
damage is visible. It is not until the damage becomes visible that a consumer will become 
aware of the problem.  I am sure HDI is aware that this service doesnt  consider a gradually 
operating cause exclusion should be used  to defeat a claim where the consumer was not 
aware of the peril operating and that would apply  to a subsidence claim.
However, the third exclusion HDI applied to defeat the claim does  appear  to do so. This 
being the exclusion for subsidence caused  by compaction of infill. The made ground 
underneath Mr and Ms Gs outrigger would be classed as infill and I am satisfied from the 
evidence the cause of the movement is its compaction.  I know  that this will be a 
disappointment to Mr and Ms G, but HDI was entitled to decline the claim when it did. 
Mr and Ms G have  provided a quote for repairing  the damaged gully and drain that the 
surveyor concluded at an early stage was not linked to the claim. I note that HDI said to 
Mr and Ms G said that this damage couldnt  be considered under the accidental  damage to 
underground services  cover as there was no evidence of accidental damage.  It is good 
industry practice for such claims to be accepted (given the pipes are underground  and it 
cant be known exactly what has happened to them) unless the insurer  has physical 
evidence of an exclusion that defeats  the claim. As such, Mr and Ms G might  want to 
consider discussing  the drain damage with HDI.
Both parties  confirmed receipt of my provisional  decision and neither provided  any further 
evidence or comment.
Important policy terms and conditions
The buildings are insured against  loss or damage  caused by 
5 Subsidence, landslip or heave  of the site on which the buildings  stand
Ref: DRN48396895Your insurer will not pay for loss of damage

ii) Caused by compaction of infill,

iv) Caused by settlement,  shrinkage or expansion,

12. Accidental damage to underground  pipes or cables within the boundaries of your 
home.
Your insurer will not pay for
Loss or damage from which you are not legally responsible,
Damage to any part of the pipe or cable above ground level,
Damage caused  whilst clearing a blockage
Under a section detailing general  exceptions it details that the insurer will not pay for
3 Gradually operating cause
Any loss, damage  or liability arising  from wear and tear or damage that happens 
gradually over time.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and as neither party  has 
made any further submissions, I see no reason to change my conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs G to accept  or reject my decision before 
2 November 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4839689