K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that a car he acquired  through a finance agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFSL) is not of satisfactory quality. 
background
On 24 January 2018 Mr C acquired a car from a dealer (D) through a hire purchase 
agreement with VFSL. The car was three year sold and had driven  26,697 miles. Three 
weeks later Mr C experienced some problems  with the car including: rear brakes,  tyre 
pressure warning light, big circle of rust on passenger  door sill, car lagging  power  
intermittently, rear suspension squeaks.
Mr C complained to VFSL  on 12 February and asked to terminate the agreement.  VFSL told 
Mr C to go back to D and issued a final response  on 15 March  further  encouraging  Mr C to 
work with the retailer to identify any issues and work towards a solution.   
Mr C said he made  contact with D on 21 March who arranged to have the car picked up on 
23 March. But he said a breakdown service company (B) came out, drove  the car one mile 
and said it was okay to drive but did not take the car to D. Mr C said eventually  the car was 
collected on 27 March  and returned three to four hours later. The brake discs and pads had 
been replaced. Mr C said other problems  remained.  So he brought  a complaint about  D to 
this service. 
Our investigator asked  D to provide a final response. It indicated that Mr Cs complaint did 
not fall within  the jurisdiction of this service because  it related to the satisfactory quality  of 
goods. It then went  on to say it would need to inspect the car to verify the faults, or an 
independent inspection would be needed.  The investigator determined the complaint should  
be set up against  the finance  provider VFSL. 
VFSL said,  as of August  2018, it did not have  proof  that there  was a fault with the car. It said 
Mr C had not taken  the car to D in order to allow it to identify  any faults. It said should Mr C 
bring the car to D now it would have the right to attempt  a repair.  It asked for an independent 
inspection of the car. The inspection noted that knocking and droning noises from the car 
should be further investigated.  
Our investigators view was that we did not have  enough evidence to say that Mr C could 
reject the car at the moment. But she said VFSL should arrange  for the rust to be repaired 
and for the noises  to be investigated  and if possible  repaired. She said if for any reason  the 
noises cant be repaired or it isnt financially viable then she thought that Mr C might be 
allowed to reject the car at this point.
VFSL did not respond to this view.  Mr C submitted some further evidence to support his 
case that D did not look at the issues sufficiently the first time. 
I issued a provisional decision to Mr C and VFSL on 30 April 2019. I said:
In hire purchase agreements the finance  provider,  in this case  VFSL, becomes the owner 
and supplier of the vehicle  and is subject to the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015. The law says 
goods supplied  should be of satisfactory  quality, including, in this case,  taking into account 
the age and mileage of the car. If the car were not of satisfactory quality there  would be a 
breach of contract.  I must take account  of relevant law when deciding what is fair and 
Ref: DRN49497152reasonable. So I must consider whether or not the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when 
Mr C acquired  it at the point of sale. If I dont then I might find it is fair and reasonable for him 
to reject it. 
Mr C first contacted VFSL on 12 February.  VFSL sent a final response  letter  on 15 March.  In 
its final response VFSL said that as the finance company, it was responsible for the vehicle 
at the point of sale and any inherent  faults apparent  from that time. It said for any issues  
occurring within the first six months  from purchase it has one attempt to repair  it. It then 
recommended Mr C liaise with the retailer, in this case D, to arrange repairs  as, it said, it 
was unable to assist Mr C further if the issues he was reporting were  not confirmed by the 
retailer. But by 15 March  Mr C had told VFSL that he had tried to contact D. He chased 
VFSL several times in this period  for some help.  
After Mr C received the final response  he managed to make contact with D who made some 
repairs to the brakes. I havent seen any communication between  D and Mr C about  those  
repairs or specifically  what Mr C reported were the problems. But he had already outlined 
them in detail to VFSL, as noted  on its final response. So it seems  reasonable for me to say 
he outlined them to D when he managed  to get in touch. But it appears D only fixed  the 
brakes and did no further inspection  or repairs of the car. 
When Mr C brought his complaint to this service  D had issued a final response which at first 
incorrectly said that Mr Cs complaint does not fall within the jurisdiction of this service  
because it related to the satisfactory  quality  of goods. It then went  on to say it would need  to 
inspect the vehicle to verify the faults,  or an independent inspection would be needed. It said 
it had advised  Mr C it felt the car was fault free because of the report  from B, but hadnt 
received the actual inspection report. I havent seen any contact  notes between  Mr C and D 
so I am unable to say for certain what was said between the two parties. But Mr C has said 
B only came out and advised  the car was safe to drive, although it only drove  1.5 miles in 
the car, with no motorway driving or any real testing.
Where evidence is missing or contradictory  I must make my decision based on what I 
believe is mostly likely. It does  seem to me that D had the opportunity to inspect the car 
when it was collected in March. I think it likely Mr C did tell D about  all the issues  he was 
experiencing with the car. And it was at this point that D had the opportunity to fully inspect 
the car and complete any repairs necessary. 
VFSL told this service  it wasnt  convinced  the amount of faults Mr Cs referred to are actually 
present on the vehicle.  
But Mr C has been consistent from early February, only three  weeks after he received the 
car, of the problems  and Im satisfied, subject  to any further  information  I might receive, that 
both companies had the opportunity to assist Mr C much earlier and didnt. 
So it appears that both D and VFSL have  said they could only draw  conclusions after the car 
was inspected. After  the complaint came to this service  VFSL  agreed to commission  an 
inspection. In summary the engineer  reported:
The engineer can confirm the presence of rust development  in the door shut at the 
sill panel area and has identified corresponding markings on the inner  edge  of the 
door. Given the findings the engineer believes entrapment of a foreign object has 
broken the paint surface allowing rust development over time. The engineer  
considers this accident damage.
Ref: DRN49497153The engine did not produce the squeaking noise reported to be alternator during the 
examination. However, the engineer did identify a knocking noise from the engine  on 
initial start-up. This should be fully investigated  along with the droning noise heard 
from the rear of the vehicle during road test.
The investigator felt that VFSL should  have the opportunity to try to repair the car following 
this report. But VFSL sent Mr C back to D to get the problems confirmed. Mr C tried to 
contact D. Then D dismissed  his concerns by asking for an independent  report and issuing a 
final response incorrectly saying this service would be unable  to help. 
VFSL has said that Mr C had contacted it in July 2018 to say he could not longer afford the 
payments due to personal circumstances. While Im not disputing  Mr C has said this to VFSL  
I note Mr C raised issues about the car within three weeks of the agreement starting so I 
dont think affordability  is relevant to this complaint. 
In its final response VFSL  said to Mr C it was unable to assist  him if he hadnt  had the issues  
confirmed with the retailer. This is despite the fact that VFSL  took ownership of the car by 
virtue of the type of finance agreement  it had with Mr C. So I dont  consider  that to be a 
reasonable response. 
Prior to the independent report being commissioned, after the complaint came  to this 
service, VFSL told us that Mr C hadnt  engaged with D enough to try and get the issues  
resolved and that it isnt convinced the amount  of faults hes referred to are actually present 
on the vehicle.  But Mr C had tried to liaise with D. And given the nature of the agreement  
and legal ownership it would have been reasonable to expect VFSL to assist  Mr C in getting 
the car inspected and repaired. 
Subject to any further information I may receive from either party  Im satisfied VFSL  should  
have done more to help Mr C, and prior to Mr C bringing his complaint to this service I Im 
satisfied it had already  had the opportunity to inspect the car and attempt any repair. So I 
consider it fair and reasonable to allow Mr C to reject the car. Mr C has driven approximately 
6,000 miles prior to the inspection so I believe  Mr C has had some  use of the car. I would 
consider it fair for VFSL to refund payments only from the date of that inspection, 18 October  
2018.
Further, given the inconvenience and worry this has caused Mr C I also consider it fair for 
VFSL to pay Mr C £200 in compensation. 
Mr C submitted some further evidence  which he said supports his case  that D did not look at 
the issues sufficiently  the first time.  The source of this evidence is not clear to me. It appears 
to be a screen shot from an internal  admin system, but I dont know its origin so I dont 
believe it would be fair for me to rely on it.
Mr C accepted my findings  but expressed  concern that I allowed VFSL additional  time to 
provide more evidence. VFSL did not provide  any additional evidence. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent my provisional decision to VFSL on 30 April 2019. Initially it said it would like one more  
day to consider my findings which I agreed to. But it did not provide any further  evidence  on 
Ref: DRN49497154which I can rely. Mr C accepted these findings.  So I see no reason to depart from its 
conclusions. 
Mr C was concerned VWFS waited until the deadline to respond and that I allowed VFSL  an 
additional day to provide  evidence. He said it had had sufficient time to respond and he felt 
this had impacted  when  a final decision would be made. We are an informal resolution 
service and my role is to be fair and reasonable to both parties.  If either party  requests  
additional time I would give both parties the same consideration. VFSL only requested one 
day and eventually wasnt able to provide any new evidence. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited must:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from Mr C  
both at no cost to him.
2.Refund to Mr C all monthly payments that hes made under the agreement since  18 
October 2018
3.Pay interest on the amounts at 2 above  at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date 
of each payment  to the date of settlement.
4.Reimburse Mr C for any cost that he incurs  for cancelling his insurance policy, 
subject to proof of cancelation. 
5.Ensure that no adverse  information  about  the agreement is recorded on Mr Cs credit  
file.
6.Pay £200 to Mr C to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4949715