K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Mrs M complain about the interest  rate OneSavings Bank Plc (OSB) have charged 
on their secured loan.
background
Mr B and Mrs M took out a secured loan for £52,000 in September  2006. This was an 
unregulated credit agreement. While it was taken over by OSB  in 2015, a different lender 
sold it originally.
In 2012, Mr B and Mrs Ms contractual monthly payment (CMP) increased. The previous 
lender explained at the time that this was due to an increase  in the interest  rate. In 2017, 
Mr B and Mrs M complained to OSB about  the interest rate theyd been charged on their 
loan. They said they thought their loan was on a fixed interest rate. They  also said they had 
seen online that OSB were offering lower rates, and they wanted the lower rate applied to 
their loan, and for this to be backdated.  Mrs M said OSB  told her that as the previous lender 
sold their loan, they had an agreement that the loan would  be left as it was and so 
favourable products werent available to customers like her.
OSB said they couldnt  find a record of this conversation,  but explained that Mr B and 
Mrs Ms loan had always been on a variable rate, so the actual interest rate charged could 
change over the life of the loan. They explained that when Mr B and Mrs M agreed to the 
loan, this was on the basis that it was on a variable  rate of interest for the life of the loan. 
Mr B and Mrs M brought their complaint to us. Our investigator looked into things, and 
explained that due to the type of loan, and our jurisdiction  over the previous lender, we 
wouldnt be able to consider what happened  before  1 April 2014.  He also said that in his 
view, looking at the complaint he had the power  to consider, OSB had acted fairly.
Mr B and Mrs M disagreed so the complaints  been passed to me to issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This was an unregulated credit agreement, as the loan amount was for more than £25,000 
and it was taken  out in 2006. The lender that sold the loan didnt fall within this services  
compulsory jurisdiction until 1 April 2014. OSB didnt take over the loan until 2015. So I 
agree with the investigator that we can only consider whats  happened since  1 April 2014.
The credit agreement Mr B and Mrs M signed  when they took out the loan explains the 
interest rate that would be charged. Im persuaded that its clear  on the first page that the 
rate is variable,  and that the rate of interest  will increase  or decrease if and to the extent that 
there is a change in the previous lenders base lending rate. So Im satisfied Mr B and Mrs M 
agreed to a variable  rate when  they took out the loan. 
I appreciate that the interest rate didnt  actually vary that much during the life of the loan, so I 
can understand why Mr B and Mrs M may have been under the impression the loan was on 
a fixed interest rate. There was also a problem in 2012 with how the previous lender had 
applied the interest  rate to the loan, which would have caused some confusion. But Im 
Ref: DRN46310952unable to consider  that under this complaint. However Im satisfied that OSB  have acted  in 
line with the terms  of the credit agreement, as the loan was on a variable interest rate.
I appreciate that Mr B and Mrs M have seen  lower interest rates available online.  But their 
secured loan doesnt work in the way that a mortgage does, where they could apply  for new 
interest rate products  over the life of the mortgage. They took this secured loan out with one 
(variable) rate applicable for the term of the loan. So I wouldnt have  expected OSB to offer 
Mr B and Mrs M a lower  interest rate. This is regardless  of who the previous owner of the 
loan was. So whilst I dont  know for sure what OSB  told Mrs M during their conversation,  the 
information that they couldnt give her a new rate was right.  As a result,  Im satisfied OSB 
have acted fairly when  not offering Mr B and Mrs M a lower  interest rate on their loan.
OSB dont lend to borrowers directly, but if Mr B and Mrs M had wanted  to re-finance their 
loan into a new one with a different interest  rate, they could have discussed this with a 
broker at the time. However I understand Mr B and Mrs M have  now redeemed their loan. 
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4631095