K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Close Brothers Limited (CBL) mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
background
Theres very limited information  regarding what  happened, but it appears Mr H arranged  
financing to buy a car in 2005. CBL sold him a monthly premium PPI policy around a month 
later  it says this was by post. Among other things, the PPI protected  his monthly payments 
if he couldnt work due to disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. They believed CBL didnt properly 
explain the cost and benefits  of the PPI to Mr H at the time of the sale. And that, had he 
been given that information, he likely  wouldnt have gone ahead with the policy.  
CBL disagreed with the adjudicators findings, so the case was passed to me review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Hs case.
Having done so, Im upholding  the complaint. Ill explain why.
It was for CBL to provide  Mr H with clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the PPI 
so he could make an informed choice about  whether  to take it. Theres very little evidence to 
show how CBL went  about doing  that or if it provided enough  information.  
Ive considered all of CBLs submissions, including that Mr H would have  needed to 
complete the form he was sent in the post agreeing to the PPI. While I dont dispute  that in 
this case  mainly because I dont need to, since there are other grounds on which Im 
upholding the complaint   that doesnt mean  Mr H knew what he was agreeing to. 
I note in particular  that the monthly  premium  was around £135  in return for a monthly benefit 
of around £754  in the event of a successful claim. That was a significant cost on top of 
Mr Hs car finance payments and Im satisfied  he wouldnt have gone ahead  with the PPI if 
hed been given better information about  it.
Taking everything into account,  I believe CBL mis-sold the PPI to Mr H. And I think  it should  
put things right for him.
putting things right
CBL should  put Mr H in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy  
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and CBL should:
Pay Mr H the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Ref: DRN45243532Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, CBL can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him. It can also take off anything  its already paid him 
for the commission and profit  share it received.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires CBL to take off tax from this interest.  CBL must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im upholding the complaint.  I require Close Brothers  Limited to put 
things right for Mr H as explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4524353