K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to her in 
an irresponsible manner.
background
Mrs C took out a short term instalment loan from Satsuma on 2nd November 2017 for £300  to 
be repaid in 6 instalments of £94.80.
Mrs Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She sent a letter to both 
parties where she didnt  uphold Mrs Cs complaint. She concluded  that Satsuma didnt need 
to carry out any further checks at the time it granted the loan to Mrs C and didnt do anything  
wrong. 
Mrs C didnt agree with our adjudicator. She said Satsuma should have taken reasonable 
steps to determine her income and expenditure when it agreed to lend to her. She thinks  it 
should have asked for bank statements and if it did, it would  have seen that she couldnt  
afford the loan.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs C could repay the loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mrs Cs income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN42057182There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma did a number  of checks before it lent to Mrs C. It asked her for details of her 
income and her normal expenditure. It gathered data from credit reference agencies.  And it 
then used this information to calculate how much disposable income  Mrs C had left over 
each month. Satsuma also used the credit reference agency checks  to gather some  more 
information about Mrs Cs financial situation  at that time. Ive taken all of this into account  
when considering if it needed  to do more at the time it lent to Mrs C.
Mrs C approached Satsuma on 2nd November 2017 for her first short term instalment loan 
with it. The repayment  that Mrs C had agreed  to make on this loan was relatively modest 
compared to the disposable income that shed declared to Satsuma. This was the first time 
Mrs C had approached  it for a loan and from what I have seen, I dont think there  was any 
reason for Satsuma  to doubt the information Mrs C had provided  about her income and 
expenditure.
I have also seen results from the credit  checks that Satsuma carried out at the time. These 
checks failed to show any information that might  have suggested Mrs C was having 
problems managing her money.
I acknowledge Mrs Cs comments about  her finances at the time the loan was granted and 
what she thinks Satsuma should  have done when  it agreed to lend to her. She says 
Satsuma should  have found  out more about  her finances and her situation  at the time. She 
says if it had, it would have shown she couldnt  afford the loan. But that wasnt something 
she told Satsuma when  she asked  for the loan, nor do I think  it is something  Satsuma  should  
have discovered  from proportionate  checks at this very early stage. I think  it was reasonable 
here for Satsuma to rely on the information that Mrs C provided about  her finances when 
assessing the affordability of the loan.  I dont think it would  be proportionate to expect  
Satsuma to have  gone further and sought  to independently verify  what  Mrs C had said for 
the reasons I have  already given.  And as the information Mrs C provided  suggested  that the 
loans were affordable  for her I dont  think that Satsuma did anything wrong when it agreed to 
lend.
In conclusion, I dont  think Satsuma did anything wrong when it agreed to lend to Mrs C.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4205718