K821x#15This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) (BM)  mis-sold 
him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think BM made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out 
 although I can understand  why he cant remember this given the passage of time. 
Mr W has said that he was convinced he wouldnt be able to get his mortgage unless he took 
out PPI. Mr W applied  for his mortgage  late in 1996.  The documentation  from the time 
suggests Mr W initially filled out an application  form for PPI at this point. For whatever 
reason, this application didnt go forward and PPI was not included with the mortgage. 
Mr Ws mortgage itself, however, was still approved.
It seems  Mr W then completed  and signed another application form for PPI in March 2001,  
when his mortgage had been  running for a number of years.  As Mr Ws mortgage application 
had been approved without him having to take PPI, I think its likely he understood PPI was 
not something he had to have and that he chose to take it, knowing it was optional.  
Mr W has said there may be something suspicious about the application form itself but hes 
not been clear  about what he means  by this. Ive examined the copy of the application form 
provided by BM and Ive not seen anything to suggest  there may be some kind of 
irregularity. I think its most likely that the form is what  it appears to be  an application for 
PPI which  Mr W completed  and signed  in March 2001.
BM recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information BM gave Mr W about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said - including what hes said about the PPI not 
being useful because when he was injured  in 2003 and spent three  months off work,  he was 
covered by his sick pay and didnt need  to claim.  These points dont  change  my decision. 
While Mr W was entitled to some  sick pay from his employer,  had he had a longer-term 
injury or illness the PPI would have paid out for longer so I think he would still have found it 
useful. Im not sure if Mr W was aware of this, but he could also have claimed on his PPI 
policy at the same as receiving sick pay from his employer.
Ref: DRN47225182This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BM doesnt  need to refund everything  
Mr W paid for it. But BM has already offered to give Mr W back  some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Its not clear if BM has paid what its offered to Mr W yet. If it hasnt already done so it needs 
to make arrangements to pay Mr W now Ive issued  my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2019.
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4722518