K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a credit card account that started in 1997. 
Lloyds couldnt  confirm how or exactly  when  PPI was sold to Mr D. But it mustve  been 
added either  when Mr D took out his credit card or some time after.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagrees with our adjudicators view. 
Mr D told us that he wouldnt have  taken out the PPI if all aspects  of the policy  had been fully 
explained to him and hed been  aware that taking  it out didnt improve the chances of getting  
his credit card application approved.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds couldnt  say how it had sold the PPI to Mr D. He says he took out the PPI during a 
meeting when he arranged his credit  card. Mr D recalls speaking  to an advisor, so he may 
well be right about that. 
But it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr D to be able to remember  in detail exactly  what 
was discussed  in a meeting so long ago. So I cant know exactly  what  the bank mightve said 
to Mr D when he took out PPI. 
The original  paperwork from the sale is no longer  available. Lloyds has provided an example 
of a credit  card application. But Im not relying on this - just in case this isnt like the form 
Mr D filled in, given that Lloyds cant show exactly how or when he took out the PPI. 
I have to look at all the available information  and decide what I think  is most likely. 
It looks to me as if Mr D couldve benefitted from having PPI if hed needed to claim.  So, on 
balance, I think its more  likely that Mr D decided  he wanted to have the benefits PPI offered 
and Lloyds added PPI to his account  at his request. 
Lloyds said that it would  treat this as an advised sale.  This means it not only had to give him 
important policy information  in a clear way. It also had to take reasonable steps  to make sure 
the cover  it recommended  was suitable  for Mr D. Looking  at the complaint this way gives  
Mr Ds complaint the best chance of success as it imposes an extra  obligation on the bank.  
In the circumstances I think thats fair  and its how Im going to look at Mr Ds complaint.
Ref: DRN48673832Mr D was eligible for the policy. He had some  sick pay entitlement  through work   he 
mentioned hed have got 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months half pay from his 
employer. But the policy wouldve paid more than his minimum credit  card repayments for up 
to 12 months per claim  in the event of accident  or sickness  on top of any work benefits. As 
Mr D mightve  also had some additional costs  if he was too unwell to go back  to work or 
disabled, I think this couldve  been  a useful benefit at a difficult time.  
And as well as this, the policy  wouldve  also protected Mr Ds credit card repayments if he 
lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Ive taken into account that Mr D mentioned having some  other  means he couldve  
depended on if he wasnt able to work.  But he said this wouldve been  for a few months only.  
And I dont  know if Mr D wouldve always had other  means he could rely on to pay his credit 
card bills if he wasnt able to work. So I think PPI was suitable for him.  
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if this wouldve affected 
Mr D. So I dont think that having more information about the policy exclusions and 
limitations wouldve  put Mr D off taking out PPI.
Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what  the policy  would cost,  or what 
it might  pay out if Mr D made a claim. But Mr D chose  to take out the policy  so it looks like 
he wanted this type of cover. It seems  to have been  affordable for him. Mr D couldve 
cancelled the policy at any time if his circumstances changed or he no longer wanted to pay 
for it.
Taking everything into account,  I havent seen enough to persuade me that its likely  Mr D 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance, 
I think hed still have  taken out the policy. This means I dont think  that Mr D has lost out as a 
result of anything that Lloyds may have done wrong. So it doesnt  need to do anything to put 
things right.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4867383