K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold  him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1998.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Fs credit card account when  he applied  for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr Fs main complaint  is that Bank  of Scotland added  on the PPI without his knowledge. He 
also told us that PPI wasnt something he needed.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint.  Ill explain my reasons.
Mr F was eligible  for the PPI when he took it out.
I find Bank of Scotland made Mr F aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose  to take 
it. He signed separately  in the PPI box on the credit card application form to have the 
insurance added on, making it clear that he wanted to have the policy. There  was a No 
option on the form that he couldve  signed instead  if he hadnt wanted PPI at the time. This 
has been left blank on Mr Fs completed application.
Mr F also signed the completed form next to where it says: Sign it only if you want to be 
legally bound by its terms. So I think its likely that Mr F would've carefully checked through 
the information on the form before  doing  this.  
 
Based on all the information Ive seen, I think Mr F wouldve seen that it was up to him to say 
if having PPI was something he wanted and it was added  to his account  at his request when 
he chose to take it out. 
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mr F so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him.
Its possible some of the information  Bank  of Scotland gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But Mr F chose  to take out the policy  and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. Mr F told us he was entitled to 6 months full sick pay, followed by 
6 months half pay. But the policy wouldve paid more than his minimum credit card 
repayments in addition to this sick pay for up to 12 months per claim if he couldnt  work, 
giving him a useful  benefit at a difficult time  especially  when he wouldve only been  on half 
pay after 6 months  off work. And it wouldve paid out if he lost his job unexpectedly. He 
doesnt appear to have  had significant other means  he couldve relied on. 
Taking everything into account,  I think that the PPI offered Mr F useful benefits.  
Ref: DRN42967632Mr F wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations  and the policy was 
reasonably priced  and apparently affordable when he signed up to it. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr F when he bought the policy. But, from 
what Ive seen, the monthly premiums seem to have been affordable for him when he took 
the policy out. Mr F paid for the PPI each month so he couldve cancelled  the policy at any 
time without  losing out financially if his circumstances changed or he no longer wanted to 
pay to keep it running. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr F still wouldve decided to buy the policy if hed been  better  informed as PPI gave 
him useful  protection in his particular  situation.  
This means  Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr F about that. Because  Bank of Scotland 
didnt tell Mr F, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Bank plc does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
But Bank of Scotland Bank  plc does have to pay back to Mr F any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4296763