K822xcomplaint
Miss H has complained about advice from Argentis Financial Management Ltd (Argentis) to 
her pensions into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). 
background 
Miss H met with Argentis  in January 2018 to discuss retirement planning.  She was 
approaching her 55th birthday. She had an existing SIPP and stakeholder  and group 
personal pension  plans with another provider. The value, in total, was some  £384,000. She 
owned three properties, two of which were buy to let, with approximately  £670,000 of interest 
only mortgages. She intended  to carry on working with no fixed date for full retirement  with 
her property portfolio  supplementing her income.  She wanted to release the maximum tax 
free cash  or pension  commencement lump  sum (PCLS) on her 55th birthday to reduce debt 
and monthly outgoings. 
Argentis issued a suitability report on 11 July 2018. In summary Argentis recommended  that 
Miss H transfer all her pensions to a new provider, aside from leaving  £1 in her SIPP  to 
receive ongoing contributions (£433 pm) from her employer  I understand the employer 
wasnt willing to contribute to an alternative arrangement.  The new provider would  then be 
instructed to pay the tax free cash of about  £96,000  to Miss H. 
The report  noted  that Miss H didnt anticipate  any significant changes to her circumstances 
in the next five years. Her current objectives were noted as accessing the full PCLS  from the 
funds shed built up in her money purchase  arrangements to reduce debt and transferring 
and consolidating  her current  pension plans to a new pension  solution that would allow  her 
to flexibly access her benefits going  forwards (and which, aside from her SIPP her existing 
pension plans didnt  permit). 
The report  said, based on Miss Hs answers to Argentis risk tolerance questionnaire it had 
been agreed she had a moderate attitude to investment risk, defined as:
 Moderate  investors are concerned by short-term losses but understand that some risk is 
needed in order  to achieve  better returns.
 They believe that the safety of their investment and investment returns  are equally 
important.
 They are willing to leave their money invested  despite a fall in value of their investment in 
order to try to recover their losses.
After charges and payment of the tax free cash shed be left with about TFC withdrawal, it 
was estimated she would  be left with around  £286,000.  Argentis recommended these funds 
be split between the providers WealthSelect CRA 6 Active Managed  Portfolio and 
Morningstar Moderate  Passive Portfolio. The total annual  charge was 1.17% (including 
Argentis ongoing  advice fee). This compared  with 1.63% for the same solution  with one of 
Miss Hs existing provider  or 0.86% with the other. Thered  also be a charge of 0.21% from 
Morningstar.
Miss H accepted the advice and the transfers  went ahead. 
There was a review meeting on 26 October  2018  at Miss Hs request. The value of the 
investment was then £273,555, down from the initial investment of around £286,000. The 
meeting notes say that Miss H had requested the meeting as, despite confirming a moderate 
Ref: DRN40152332risk profile was still appropriate  as a long term investment  strategy, she was concerned 
about market  volatility.  The meeting  notes  confirm that, after a discussion, one of the two 
portfolios would be transferred to cash.  And a larger  cash withdrawal had been discounted 
because of the tax implications. 
Theres a file note dated 29 October  2018 to say Miss H was now considering investing in 
property funds. And further notes on 12 November 2018 that Miss H had asked to move 
funds into property and that she was contemplating adding to her property portfolio and had 
had a bid accepted on one property  with possibly another property to follow.  She didnt need 
funds for the first property but would for the second.  The adviser recommended  releasing 
monies as soon as possible  and placing some  in cash  but Miss H was uncertain  if the 
purchase would proceed.  As Ive mentioned below, Miss H says thats not an accurate note 
of the discussion.  
An email  sent to Miss H on 31 October  2018 said a withdrawal  of £136,000 from her pension  
fund would result in a tax charge of around £55,000.  The email  also included requested 
property investment factsheets. 
A fund switch form transferring the Morningstar  Passive Portfolio (then valued at around 
£137,000) into Vanguard 60% Equity Fund  and L&G Property  Fund was completed on 12 
November 2018.  Argentis produced a suitability report  for the switch  recommending  the 
switch to meet Miss Hs stated requirement of moving 33% of her portfolio into a commercial 
property based  fund. The Vanguard  fund for the balance  of the monies  was recommended 
based on Miss Hs moderate attitude to risk.
Miss H emailed Argentis on 30 December 2018 expressing disappointment about 
performance, noting a drop of £21,000 since transfer. She mentioned  a conversation  earlier 
in the year when  she and her partner had expressed concern that the market was likely  to 
fall and queried whether it was more prudent to move into cash  for the time being. And an 
earlier discussion about different potential investments.  She didnt consider Argentis had 
monitored the situation and advised  accordingly.  Whenever shed contacted  Argentis the 
advice had always been to remain in the fund originally recommended.  She referred  to 
Argentis having  offered  to forgo  its ongoing advice fee for a year or so but she didnt think  
that gesture  would be enough to mitigate her losses. She later added that her employers 
contributions had been invested in cash since July the previous year.  
Argentis treated what Miss H had said as a complaint but didnt uphold  it. Argentis  
maintained its advice had been  appropriate.  It felt that much  of Miss Hs concerns were 
performance related.  Argentis said it was unaware  of her plans for a further buy to let 
purchase until after its advice had been  given.  And, although the employer contributions had
been going into cash since July 2018,  this would have been picked up at the annual review
meeting.
Miss H then referred her complaint to this service. It was investigated by one of our 
adjudicators. He upheld the complaint about  the employer contributions being held in cash. 
He didnt uphold  the rest of the complaint.  His main  findings were:  
Miss H had said shed  always had plans to purchase a buy to let property. Argentis  
position was that wasnt discussed until several  months after its advice had been  
given. Miss H had since withdrawn funds from her pension  for the purchase,  incurring 
a tax bill of about £40,000.  
Ref: DRN40152333The suitability report didnt say Miss H planning to withdraw more than the PCLS, 
which was to be used  to reduce debt. If the report didnt record  what  Miss H had told 
Argentis she should have pointed that out so Argentis could adjust  its advice. The 
earliest recorded reference  to property purchase  was in November 2018.
Stock market funds  should be considered at least a five year investment. Miss H had 
confirmed in the risk profile questionnaire  she was that she was willing to leave her 
residual fund invested for ten years or more. And shed told the adjudicator  she 
wasnt planning on taking  income  for at least five years,  until age 60. It was 
reasonable for Argentis to recommend investing all of her residual  fund.
Predicting what stock  markets might do on a short term basis was virtually 
impossible. Argentis  advice not to sell after a drop was correct. Suitable advice takes 
a longer term view.
A recommendation should be appropriate  for the investors  appetite for risk. 
Assessing that by using a risk profiling  questionnaire was a reasonable approach. 
Based on Miss Hs responses  to the questionnaire she completed  in June 2018, the 
classification of moderate was reasonable.
On the questionnaire  shed indicated shed be willing to suffer  a drop of 20% to her 
investment and wait a year before making any significant changes.  In the event she 
suffered a 5% drop; and made  changes within six months. That might  suggest a 
moderate approach  was too high risk. But, given Miss Hs investment experience, the 
adjudicator considered that a moderate  approach was right.  
Other investments had been discussed. Given the number of funds  on offer and 
suitable for moderate risk investors, the selection of one over another  didnt mean the 
fund selected  was unsuitable.  
The current asset split of the Morningstar Passive Portfolio was 58% equity, 30% 
fixed income with the remainder in cash.  The fund showed a 4.35% loss in 2018 but 
had grown by 55% since its 2013  inception. The Old Mutual  fund had around 60% in 
equity based funds, 10% in fixed income,  18% in alternatives  with the rest in cash. 
The same  fund also shows a 2018  loss. But the five year return  was 38.47%. 
Most  investments will lose value from time to time but over the longer term will often 
result in a positive return, though this isnt guaranteed. The mix of assets on both 
funds, between shares and lower  risk fixed interests and some in cash, was broadly 
what is expected  for a moderate risk investor.  Around 10% was held in cash within  
the funds themselves.  Leaving  more in cash would  have duplicated that. 
Both funds were suitable as was the SIPP which allowed Miss H to take her tax free 
cash and leave  the rest of her fund invested.
The employer contributions had been held in cash and so Miss H had lost out on 
growth. Miss H had decided before July 2018  to move the funds into cash  so 
Argentis wasnt responsible for that. But Argentis should  have advised Miss H to 
ensure the contributions were being paid into a suitable fund.
Argentis accepted the adjudicators view. Miss H didnt and made a number of comments. 
The adjudicator wrote on 20 January 2020 addressing  in detail the points Miss H had made. 
He also set out an amendment to the redress hed originally recommended.  He said,  if he 
calculation for the investment of the employer premiums showed a loss, that loss should be 
brought up to date using the same  index. 
In summary,  about the points Miss H had made,  the adjudicator said:
Miss H had understood  that ongoing advice meant that she could communicate with 
Argentis whenever  she felt the need. The terms of business promised a review  once 
a year but thered been ad hoc communications  too. 
Ref: DRN40152334Miss H had suggested that acting as an intermediary was the same as insider  
dealing. But financial advisers  routinely  act as intermediaries for clients by selecting 
a suitable financial  product and completing the paperwork  to set it up. It wasnt 
uncommon for advisory firms  to have preferred partners who offered their clients  
discounted rates. Insider dealing was completely different. And there  was no 
evidence of any kickback. The regulator  had banned the payment of commission  for 
new business on 31 December 2012.  
On the risk profile questionnaire Miss H had said shed be willing to suffer a worst 
case loss of £19,000 before making changes  to her investment strategy. She actually  
suffered a loss of £21,000. But the £19,000 was based on a hypothetical  investment 
of £100,000 or 19%. Miss Hs investment  was around £280,000. Her loss was well 
within the threshold. It had been within three months and the risk questionnaire 
hadnt asked how shed react to a sharp fall. But that was the nature of stock markets 
 a years gains or losses could  be incurred over a matter of days.
Miss H had made her concerns about the drop known to Argentis. It said investments 
were long term and she should stay put. If shed done that her fund value would have 
recovered and grown beyond  the amount originally invested.
What shed said on the questionnaire about  taking withdrawals immediately or within 
the next three years applied to the PCLS, as confirmed in the suitability report. 
If the suitability report  didnt represent  the correct position  and what  had been 
discussed Miss H could have pointed that out. The same  was true if she thought her 
answers to the risk profile questionnaire  had been  guided  by the adviser and didnt 
properly reflect her views. 
Where there was a dispute wed look at the evidence  and in particular the 
documentary evidence from the time. The suitability report  doesnt mention more buy 
to let properties. It set out that Miss H didnt expect  to need to access her pension  
funds, after the payment  of the PCLS, in the medium  to longer term. And that she 
had no planned  spending after withdrawing the PCLS. The recommendations were 
made on that basis. 
Miss H had produced  emails about viewing property in June 2018 and making an 
offer on a property  at the end of July 2018.  But that didnt necessarily mean she 
needed more  than the £96,000  PCLS and which she could have used towards  the 
purchase. It was possible that shed always wanted to invest the bulk of her PCLS in 
property. But it seemed the idea to withdraw more came about afterwards and when 
shed become unhappy with fund performance and which perhaps motivated her to 
seek investment alternatives. 
Shed  also said she preferred  funds which paid dividend income and the solution 
recommended didnt do that. But her objective was growth, so it would seem  
counterproductive to pay an income  that would either add to her tax liability or remain 
in cash within the SIPP. 
It wasnt fair to say Argentis was responsible  for the tax liability Miss H had incurred 
when she did withdraw a further lump  sum.  Argentis had advised her against 
withdrawing because  of the tax consequences. Miss Hs losses  arose from her own 
choices and Argentis  wasnt responsible.
The redress in respect of the employer contributions could be paid direct to Miss H if 
she was already making the maximum permitted contributions  and so the redress 
couldnt be paid into the SIPP. 
Miss H said she was disappointed with the adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be 
escalated. The complaint  has now been  referred  to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN40152335my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
adjudicator and with the reasons he gave and which Ive summarised above. 
Miss H feels very strongly that she was poorly  advised in July 2018  she says the advice 
wasnt suitable given  her intended property  purchase. Shes said that some of the 
documentation isnt correct and doesnt properly reflect what  was discussed at the time. 
I can see there might be an issue with file or telephone notes which  wont  have  been  shared 
at the time with Miss H. There may well be some  divergence of recollection about  exactly 
what was discussed  and whats recorded. 
But other documents, such as the suitability  report, are different. It was provided to Miss H at 
the time and set out Argentis understanding of her situation, plans and objectives and on 
which Argentis advice  was based. Contemporaneous written documentation does carry 
weight, especially when  its been shared between the parties. 
The report  is silent about any plan to purchase further buy to let properties. Whats recorded  
indicates that Miss H had no planned expenditure beyond that which the PCLS would permit. 
If the report didnt  represent  Miss Hs correct position then she should  have  pointed  that out 
to Argentis.
But I can see that, at about the same time, Miss H was actively  looking for another buy to let 
property. She was viewing properties during June to October 2018. At the end of July 2018 
she made an offer on one property. And by towards  the end of October 2018 her offer on 
another property  was accepted. But whats not clear is if she shared her plans with Argentis 
including that she might need  to access more than the PCLS to fund the purchase(s). From 
what Ive seen she didnt.  I cant see thered  be any gain to Argentis  in issuing a suitability 
report setting out other  than what it understood Miss Hs position to be and when it knew that 
shed be likely to challenge  what it said,  if it was wrong. 
Miss H says she told the adviser  at the meeting on 26 October 2018. Looking at the meeting 
notes there  doesnt  seem  to have been  any discussion about  a possible property purchase. 
Miss H may say that the note doesnt accurately reflect what was discussed.  A further cash 
withdrawal was mentioned (although discounted due to the adverse tax implications). I can 
see that why Miss H was contemplating doing that may have been discussed and if so Id 
assume shed have said it was to buy a further  property. But that was still over three months 
after Argentis original  recommendations.
A possible property purchase  was recorded as having been discussed with Argentis  on 12 
November 2018.  Miss H doesnt accept as accurate what Argentis recorded as having been 
discussed. She says the adviser didnt  suggest she put monies in cash   she says it was her 
suggestion which the adviser talked  her out of. And there  was no uncertainty  about whether 
things would proceed  shed already got one property purchase going through  plus another  
two on the way so she needed the cash. 
But, again  and whether  it was only one or more properties, that wasnt consistent with what 
Argentis had understood Miss Hs plans to be when  it gave its advice. If she didnt make  her 
plans clear or they later changed  (possibly because of her disappointment with how her 
funds had performed)  that wont be Argentis fault.   
Ref: DRN40152336Based on what the suitability report  said I think Argentis advice was suitable.  The move  to 
the new SIPP met Miss Hs objective of accessing  the full PCLS  and consolidating her 
pension plans to allow her to flexibly access her benefits going forwards which, in the main, 
her existing plans  didnt permit. 
Her SIPP did but it was higher charging  than the new SIPP  which Argentis recommended. 
So I dont  think transfers into that SIPP should  have been recommended. Miss H had to 
retain that SIPP due to constraints imposed by her employer who was paying contributions 
into it. The recommendation to transfer that fund but keep the SIPP open was suitable  too.
I think the fund split Argentis recommended was suitable too. Miss H had been assessed  as 
a moderate investor  and the funds matched that attitude to risk. 
The risk profile questionnaire, coupled with discussion which Argentis  said did take place, is 
a reasonable method of gauging an investors attitude to investment risk. The scenarios 
posed wont cover every  eventuality and some answers may appear contradictory or 
indicative of a different  outcome to the rating achieved. Some  there  may be some room  for 
debate. And it wont be right for an adviser to guide  or suggest how a client  should answer 
the questions  posed. But the suitability letter did set out a description of a moderate investor. 
It said that such investors would be concerned by short  terms losses  but willing  to leave  their 
money invested despite a fall in value to try to recover  losses. I think a moderate risk rating  
was appropriate  for Miss H. 
It seems  that by towards  the end of October Miss H was concerned about falling fund 
values. I can understand  her nervousness  and the worry that thered be further falls. But, 
given the intended long term nature of the investments, I dont  think  advice to retain the 
funds and not crystallise  a loss was wrong.  Miss H remained  concerned  as her fund value 
continued to fall despite the move out of the Morningstar fund. But, with hindsight, it seems 
that the losses were  relatively short term and would have been  more than made  up if shed 
remained invested. 
Miss H has referred to two fund providers that were  discussed at the outset but ultimately  not 
selected. The note of the meeting on 8 June 2018 records  that splitting the fund between 
those two providers  was considered. The fact those funds may have performed better 
doesnt mean the funds actually selected were unsuitable. It is inevitable that some funds will 
perform better than others  at different times. 
Miss M has also said she preferred funds  which paid dividend  income. The meeting note 
records that Miss H also suggested  a bespoke portfolio selection within the drawdown 
arrangement once the tax free cash had been paid with dividends  generated from funds paid 
into the cash account so she could potentially  release these sums when required in the 
future. That strategy is mentioned in emails too. But the adviser explained why that wasnt 
Argentis preferred drawdown investment  strategy which Miss H apparently accepted. As Ive 
said I think the funds  recommended were suitable, even if different funds could have  been  
chosen. I havent seen anything to suggest  that what Miss H says about Argentis getting 
some benefit  if those particular funds  were selected is right.    
I can only uphold the complaint if I consider  Argentis advice was unsuitable. There are often 
a range of solutions which might be offered in a particular situation. Some may work out 
better than others but that doesnt mean other  options should be regarded,  with the benefit 
of hindsight, as unsuitable. 
Ref: DRN40152337Miss H took further lump  sum of £80,000 in March  2019. As it was so close  to the end of the 
tax year she says shed have been  better  off taking it in two tranches, one in the 2018/2019  
tax year and the other in the next tax year.  She suggested Argentis should refund its advice 
fee of £3,000; reimburse fees of £1,800 that shed incurred with a new adviser; redress the 
£20,000 fall in the fund value; and meet the tax of £40,000 shed paid on the lump sum 
withdrawal plus any further  tax consequences.  
Im not going  to say that Argentis should  pay those sums. Based on what  it seems Argentis 
knew, its advice was suitable. Miss H may have decided to take further advice from a 
different firm but that appears to be because her plans and investment objectives had 
changed. I can see the falls in fund value may have led her to lose confidence and decide a 
different investment strategy might  work  better for her. But I dont see that Argentis is 
responsible for the fall in the fund value when  the funds it recommended  were suitable  and 
the falls in value were  within the parameters which might reasonably be regarded as 
acceptable. And Argentis  advised Miss H against  taking  the further withdrawal because of 
the tax consequences.  I dont think its Argentis fault that Miss H found herself in the 
situation she did  needing to access her pension fund for the property purchase. 
Argentis accepted that it had failed to advise Miss H to ensure  her employer contributions  
were invested appropriately.  And it doesnt  dispute  it should redress Miss H in line with what  
the adjudicator  suggested, and to include a return on any loss up to date.  
To that end to compensate Miss H fairly  Argentis  must: 
Compare the performance of Miss Hs investment with that of the benchmark
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no
compensation is payable. Argentis should  also pay any interest set out below.
If there  is a loss, Argentis should  pay into Miss Hs pension  plan, to increase
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The Argentis payment
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Argentis shouldnt  
pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If Argentis  are unable to pay the compensation into Miss Hs pension plan,
Argentis should  pay that amount direct to Miss H. But had it been  possible to
pay into the plan,  it would  have provided  a taxable  income. Therefore the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using  Miss Hs actual or expected
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. For example, if Miss H is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement age, the reduction would equal 
the current basic rate of tax. However, if she would have been able to take a tax free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Argentis  should pay Miss H £50 for the disruption to her retirement
plans.
Provide the details of the calculation to Miss H in a clear, simple  format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Argentis consider that it is 
required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it 
should tell Miss H how much has been taken off. Argentis  should also give her a tax
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN40152338investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)return on 
any loss 
Aegon 
SIPP
investmentstill 
existsFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income 
Total Return  
Indexdate of July 
2018 advicedate Miss H 
switched  out of cash 
into Newton 
Income fund 
(March 2019)From March 
2019 to date of 
settlement using the 
same benchmark
Actual value
This means  the actual value of the Aegon SIPP at the date (switch date) Miss H switched 
out of cash.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth on the switch  date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in (this would be the case for all the monthly
contributions).
my final decision
I uphold Miss Hs complaint in part. Argentis Financial Management Limited  must  redress  
her as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October  2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4015233