K820x#14complaint
Mr Os complaint is about the amount  of compensation National Westminster  Bank  Plc (Nat  
West) paid to him in respect of mis-sold  payment protection  insurance  (PPI). 
background
Nat West agreed to uphold Mr Os complaint that PPI had been mis-sold to him alongside a 
credit card. It calculated  compensation  of £21,776.63 for that mis-sold PPI. However,         
Nat West didnt pay all of that money  back to Mr O. It paid £13,579.30  to him directly. But it 
used the rest of the money  to clear a balance it said was outstanding on Mr Os credit  card 
account. This is called  offsetting. 
Mr O didnt think it was fair for Nat West to offset the compensation in this way. He disputed  
that he owed Nat West anything on his credit  card. He said that he had taken out a loan to 
pay his credit card off and he sent some bank statements that he said supported what he 
said on this point. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. First of all, he checked the calculation  Nat West had 
made and he thought  it was fair. He didnt think Mr O had paid off his credit  card balance in 
full. Overall, he thought  Nat Wests decision to keep some of the compensation back  to pay 
Mr Os credit card was fair. 
Mr O didnt agree with that view. He didnt accept  that there was an outstanding balance on 
his credit card. He said he had not received any statements or any default notices in respect 
of it. His credit file did not show an outstanding credit card balance.  He said he had taken out 
a number of consolidating loans to repay his credit  card and he thought that 
Nat Wests internal process had lost track of what had been  repaid and when.   
Our adjudicator looked again  at the matter. He took account of what  Mr O had put forward.  
But he still thought it was fair for Nat West to pay the credit  card balance with Mr Os 
compensation. Mr O was still not happy with our adjudicators view.  So the matter has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered the evidence before me, I havent upheld Mr Os complaint. Ill 
explain why below. 
As the parties agree  that PPI was mis-sold,  I dont  need to look at the circumstances 
surrounding the sale. Im looking at what Nat West has done to put things right.  As far as I 
can see, there are three issues for me to consider:  whether  Nat West has fairly calculated  
the compensation due; whether Mr O had an outstanding balance on his credit card; and if 
there was an outstanding  balance, whether it is fair for Nat West to use some of the 
compensation to pay that off. 
To decide what happened in this case, I have applied the balance of probabilities.  In other  
words, I have  looked at the evidence before me and decided  what is most likely to have 
happened. 
Ref: DRN43622282Did Nat West fairly calculate the compensation offer? 
When a business  makes an offer to settle  a PPI mi-sale complaint, as far as possible, I 
would expect it to put the consumer back in the position they would be in if the PPI hadnt 
ever been  sold to them. For credit cards, a business  must refund all of the PPI premiums  
that were charged  to the account,  alongside  any additional interest  that was paid because  of 
those premiums. It has to pay pack any fees or charges that were  directly caused by the 
PPI. In addition, a business will need to pay 8% simple interest to a consumer for the time 
theyve been out of pocket because of the PPI. 
Ive looked at the way Nat West calculated Mr Os refund and it is generally  in line with what  
Id expect to see. I can see that it has reworked Mr Os card history  to show how the account 
would have probably looked  without  PPI. When reworking the account, it has taken the PPI 
premiums off and also worked out the extra interest  Mr O paid because of those premiums. 
It has refunded fees that he paid because of the cover. I can also see that it has calculated 
8% simple  interest to compensate Mr O for being  out of pocket because  of the PPI. 
All in all, I think that what Nat West did to calculate the amount of compensation was fair. 
Ive considered below whether it was fair for Nat West to offset that compensation. 
Was there an outstanding  credit  card balance? 
As I said above, Mr O said he had repaid his credit card balance with a consolidation loan 
and he sent in a bank  statement from that time to support this. He didnt accept that he owed 
anything on his credit  card. I dont doubt  that what Mr O told us is what he honestly 
remembers about his circumstances at that time.  But looking at the evidence before  me, 
I cant reasonably say his recollection is correct.  
Looking at that bank statement, I can see that Mr O took out a loan with Nat West on or 
around 16 February 2009. However,  as our adjudicator thought,  it seems  more likely that 
Mr O used that loan to repay his overdraft and another loan  not his credit card.  
Nat West has sent us some electronic data about  Mr Os account from 2001  to date. That 
data includes Mr Os monthly  statement  balance,  his credit limit, the interest he was charged 
and any repayments  he made. For several  months  after February 2009 (when he took the 
loan out), Mr O made a number of £10 payments towards his credit  card.  If he had repaid 
the credit  card in February 2009  as he suggested,  it is not immediately clear to me why he 
would have then continued to make  repayments  towards that credit card if he thought he had 
repaid it.  
I can see that Nat West appears  to have frozen  the interest on the account from the end of 
2006. From  that date,  the payments towards the account that seem to be lower than I would 
expect the minimum payment to have been on his balance. Aside from what  he said about  
the loan in February 2009, Mr O hasnt provided  any evidence  to suggest that his credit  card 
balance was repaid in full. I cant logically find that hed paid his card off and Nat West had 
made a mistake by not updating  the records. 
The account  data I have seen from Nat West shows there was an outstanding balance of 
£8,197.33 from 28 October 2010.  I am satisfied  that when Nat West decided to offset Mr Os 
compensation, that he did owe something  on his credit card at that time. I can see that 
Ref: DRN43622283Nat West paid the PPI compensation  into the credit card account and so with effect from 22 
August 2018 the balance on the account is now £0. 
I know that Mr O said that his credit file didnt show the debt. Ive considered  that point with 
care. I havent been provided  with any documentary evidence about the credit file. However,  
even if I accept that it doesnt  show  the debt, Ive set out above  why I think there was an 
outstanding balance on Mr Os credit card and an absent entry from the credit  file wouldnt 
affect my decision on that point. 
Was it fair for Nat West to offset the compensation?  
In his correspondence to our adjudicator,  Mr O said that he had not received any statements 
or default notices  from Nat West. Mr O argued  that the debt must have been written  off and 
so the PPI compensation should  be paid directly to him.
I think it is important for me to make clear that even though Nat West didnt recover  the 
balance from Mr O or had written it off, it doesnt mean the debt no longer existed. It just 
means that Nat West hadnt taken any action to get it back. 
In practice, when Nat West  worked out how much  compensation was due, it owed Mr O 
some money. As Ive set out above, Mr O had borrowed  £8,197.33  more on his credit card 
than hed paid back. So both parties  owed each other some money. And so I think its fair for 
Nat West to use Mr Os compensation to repay  his credit card 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr O said about the default notice and statements. Even  if I 
accept that Nat West didnt send a default  notice or statements, I think  it is important to 
reiterate that when making my decision,  I have  to decide what  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint. I accept that the absence of a default letter  may have  
affected Nat West taking legal action against  Mr O. But that that wouldnt make  a difference 
to my decision about what is fair because he would have still borrowed more than he paid 
back. 
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr O. But for the reasons set out above, Nat West has calculated 
the compensation for mis-sold PPI in the way Id expect. Im satisfied that there  was an 
outstanding balance on his credit card account.  I also think its fair for Nat West to offset 
what it owes Mr O from the amount that was outstanding on his credit card.  I dont need  to 
tell Nat West to take any further action in respect of this complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  National  Westminster  Bank Plc has offered fair compensation 
to settle this complaint about a mis-sold  PPI policy. It is fair for National Westminster Bank 
Plc to offset that compensation against the debt he owed on his credit card. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN43622284
Ref: DRN4362228