K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that MYJAR Limited (Myjar)  acted irresponsibly when it gave him loans he 
says he couldnt  afford  to pay back.
background
This complaint is about four loans Myjar provided to Mr O between  February  and May 2016.  
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
LoanDate
TakenDate Repaid Instalments AmountHighest
Repayment
1 12/02/2016 01/04/2016 3 £200.00 £105.45
2 01/04/2016 29/04/2016 1 £100.00 £122.40
3 13/05/2016 31/05/2016 1 £100.00 £114.40
4 31/05/2016 outstanding 6 £1,000.00 £299.40
Mr O mainly said that the loans werent  affordable for him taking account of his income and 
expenditure at the time and his financial history showed he wasnt creditworthy.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint in part. He thought that Myjar shouldnt have lent loans 
1 or 4 to Mr O. He set out what he thought Myjar should do to put things right for Mr O. 
Myjar said that in order to bring things to a close, it was willing  to make an offer to settle 
this case. It offered to refund interest  and charges on loan 1, and remove  adverse  
information about loan 1 from Mr Os credit  file. But Myjar  disagreed  with our adjudicator 
about loan 4 and said our adjudicator hadnt explained how hed reached  his conclusions 
or mentioned what evidence his view was based on. 
Mr O has asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr O could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN48989842But certain factors might  point to the fact that Myjar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Myjar was required to establish whether Mr O could  sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a borrower could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Os complaint.
Loan 1
As Myjar has agreed to refund all interest and charges in relation to loan 1 and to amend 
Mr Os credit file in line with the way wed expect, then I havent considered this loan further 
save to include it in the redress
Loans 2 and 3
Myjar has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr O. It asked him for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Myjar carried out checks  on Mr Os credit file.
Our adjudicator didnt  think he had enough  evidence to say that loans 2 and 3 shouldnt 
have been provided. Ive looked at the information  gathered, including  what Mr O said about 
his income and expenses when he took out these  loans. I agree with our adjudicator  that 
there isnt enough  to say Myjar shouldnt have provided these loans to Mr O. It was still early  
in the lending relationship  and so I think the checks were enough for Myjar to agree to lend 
these loans. 
For these reasons, I dont  uphold Mr Os complaint about loans 2 and 3.
Ref: DRN48989843Loan 4
I think that by loan 4, Myjar should have realised that Mr O wasnt managing  to repay  his 
borrowing in a sustainable way. I say this because Myjar could see that:
looking back at his borrowing history, there were indications that Mr O had struggled 
to repay  some previous loans. Hed taken out loan 2 the same day that he repaid 
loan 1, and he took out loan 3 within a couple  of weeks of paying loan 2 
he took out loan 4 the same day that he paid loan 3. This was the third time in a row 
that hed repaid a loan then quickly borrowed again  and he was now borrowing 
significantly more money. Loan  4 was for five times the amount hed borrowed just 
three months or so earlier when he first asked Myjar for a loan
it looks likely that Mr O had to borrow again each time because  he was facing money 
problems after repaying each  previous loan.  
In these circumstances, I think there  was a significant risk Mr O wouldve been unable  to 
sustainably meet his monthly repayments  for loan 4 (and in the event,  that is what  
happened).
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 4.
putting things right  what Myjar needs to do
If Myjar has sold any outstanding debt it should buy it back  before doing what  I have outlined 
below. If Myjar isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the following:
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr O towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance  (Loan 1), not including 
anything it has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr O which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr O originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans (Loan 4), and treat any repayments  made by Mr O as though  they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr O having made  overpayments  then 
these should be refunded  with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Myjar should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to 
step "E".
D.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on loan 4. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus  should be paid to Mr O. However  if there  is still an outstanding  
balance then Myjar should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan with Mr O.
E.Remove all adverse entries  from Mr Os credit  file for loans 1 and 4  and ask the 
debt purchaser  to do the same  if Myjar sold this loan on. 
Ref: DRN48989844*HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Os complaint about loan 1 and loan 4. MYJAR 
Limited (Myjar) should take the steps  Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4898984