K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance 
applied unfair  charges  for damage  to his vehicle when he returned it at the end of a 
consumer hire agreement. He wants  the charges removed.
background
Mr C told us that at the end of the hire agreement the vehicle had been inspected on behalf 
of Audi and various aspects of damage had been  identified. Mr C said hed then had the 
vehicle repaired.  He didnt think Audi had taken this into account  when  applying  its charges.
Audi told us that the vehicle had been inspected by a company Ill refer to as B. It said the 
inspection had been carried out with reference  to British Vehicle Rental & Leasing  
Association (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines.  It said it had waived charges in relation 
to three  tyres. But the remaining charges would stand.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said that bumper 
repairs had been  carried out by a repairer  Ill refer to as E. He said that E wasnt an 
approved Audi repairer. And that the terms of the agreement had required that servicing and 
maintenance was only carried  out by authorised Audi dealers. He found  that the damage 
was outside BVRLA  guidelines and didnt think Audi had done anything  wrong  in applying 
the charges.
Mr C didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been  possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr C would be disappointed  to receive an invoice for charges when he 
thought hed had the vehicle properly repaired.
Ive seen photographs of the vehicle which accompanied Bs inspection  report.  And Ive seen  
the invoices for the repairs which Mr C had carried out and photographs  which  were taken 
after these  repairs.
Theres no doubt that the original inspection photographs identified  several aspects  of 
damage that fell outside BVRLA  guidelines. Mr C seems to have accepted this as he went  
on to have the vehicle repaired prior to collection.
Whilst I can understand his anxiety  to keep repair costs to a minimum, the terms of the hire 
agreement were clear in their requirements.
Clause 9.4 the agreement  states:
"You agree to make  sure that the vehicle is serviced and maintained  in line with the 
manufacturers recommendations and that scheduled servicing  and necessary maintenance 
is carried out only by authorised Audi dealers"
Ref: DRN42858122At 9.5 it states:
You agree  to return the vehicle at the end of the hiring period in good  repair  and condition 
except for fair wear and tear (as defined by BVRLA  fair wear and tear guide).
Theres no information to show E is an Audi approved dealer and it appears from the invoice 
letterhead to be an independent  non-VAT registered business. Consequently any repairs it 
did wouldnt  appear  to comply with the terms of the agreement. And Ive seen nothing  that 
shows those repairs restored the vehicle so that it complied with BVRLA  guidelines.
Im satisfied the charges applied by Audi are the result of damage to the vehicle which fell 
outside BVRLA guidelines  for fair wear and tear. As such  I shant  asking Audi to do anything 
else in relation to the charges applied. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4285812