K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Yorkshire Building  Society  (YBS) mis-sold them  two payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out the first regular  premium PPI policy  alongside a mortgage in 1998.  
The second  PPI policy was taken alongside a further advance in 2006. Both of these policies 
were in Mr Ss name only and covered him in the event he was too ill to work, had an 
accident or he was made redundant. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint was passed  to me. I wrote  a provisional  decision in which I 
explained that based on what Id seen so far, I was thinking of upholding the complaint in full. 
My provisional decision read as follows:
Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. The 
reason for this is twofold. Firstly, YBS recommended  the 1998 policy to Mr and Mrs S but I 
dont think it was suitable for Mr S considering his employment status. And secondly I dont 
think YBS gave Mr and Mrs S clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy, 
particularly about  the exclusions on claiming if you were self-employed.  Ill explain  why in 
more detail. 
Mr S has told us that he was self-employed  when he and Mrs S applied  for their mortgage  in 
1998. He was sub-contracting for a company at the time and says he paid his own taxes and 
national insurance  contributions and had his own accountant. Due to the length of time that 
has passed since the sale, there isnt a policy document available from the exact time of the 
sale. But I do have one document from some  time in 1997 and another  from seven months 
after the sale. And I think I can rely on these as its more likely they represent what  the 1998 
policy document wouldve said.
I think both of these policy  documents contained  exclusions for self-employed people that 
wouldve made it harder  for them to claim than if they were  employed. This is because in 
both documents  it says the insured party must prove  the self-employed business is finished 
or closed  down and that last accounts must  be produced. The wording of this suggests     
Mr S wouldve  had to permanently stop working in order to claim unemployment benefit from 
the policy and he wouldnt be able to claim the benefit in periods when he simply couldnt  
find work. I cant  see that this significant term was brought to Mr and Mrs Ss attention  before 
they agreed to take the PPI.
YBS has said that Mr S was self-employed on a contractual basis,  rather  than running his 
own business. The policy document  from 1997  defines self-employed  as being required to 
declare income  under  Schedule D for tax purposes and to pay class 2 national insurance 
contributions.  Mr  S hasnt confirmed  the exact  details  but he has told us that he paid his 
own taxes and his own national insurance  contributions when he was sub-contracting. So I 
think if this information  had been  clearly  set out to him, he wouldve thought  of himself as 
self-employed under the definition of the policy. And I think  if the onerous term set out above 
had been clearly explained  to him, it wouldve reduced Mr Ss perceived value of the 
unemployment benefit. 
Ref: DRN47746922YBSs final response  letter from 2012 says during its investigation  it asked Mr S if he had 
intended to stay self-employed once his sub-contracting work ended.  He confirmed it was 
just something he did at the time.  YBS has then concluded that because  Mr S didnt  intend  
to remain self-employed  for the foreseeable future, he was satisfied with the unemployment 
claim criteria  for the short period he would remain self-employed. 
I dont come to the same  conclusion as YBS based on the telephone  notes it has provided. 
Mr S confirmed being self-employed was just something he did at the time but I dont think  
this then means he had a firm plan to become employed once his sub-contracting work 
ended. I can see that Mr S remained self-employed for around two or three  years  after he 
took out the policy. And I dont consider this to be a short period of time. 
On balance, taking  into account all of the information I have available to me, I think that if 
Mr and Mrs S had been made aware of the onerous unemployment term for self-employed  
people, they wouldnt  have agreed  to take out the policy. 
As it stands, I also think that had Mr and Mrs S not taken  the PPI policy  in 1998, its unlikely 
they wouldve  discussed and taken out PPI in 2006  when they took out a further advance.  
Looking at the further advance application  there was no mention of PPI on the paperwork or 
an option for it to be selected. So based on what I currently  have I think it follows  that the 
2006 sale should also be upheld. 
Neither Mr and Mrs S nor YBS responded to my provisional decision with any additional 
comments or evidence for me to consider. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Seeing as neither party has given me any additional information or evidence to consider, I 
see no reason to depart from the findings  explained  in my provisional decision. So, for the 
reasons set out above, I think YBS mis-sold the PPI policies  to Mr and Mrs S.
what the business needs  to do
YBS should  put Mr and Mrs S in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and YBS should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S the amount they paid each  month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  YBS can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
If YBS has already  repaid to Mr and Mrs S any commission amount that relates  to the 
PPI sales, that payment  can be deducted  by YBS form the redress shown above. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires YBS to take off tax from this interest.  YBS must give Mr 
and Mrs S a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN47746923my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Yorkshire Building Society  should put things  right by doing what  Ive 
said above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4774692