K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains about the service he received from The Prudential  Assurance Company 
Limited (Prudential) when  he wanted  to take the benefits from his personal pension.  
This included being  denied access to the online valuation facility  and a lack of answers  to 
the questions  he raised.  Mr K says that as a result of this poor  service he was prevented  
from drawing his benefits as two separate payments  either  side of the tax year which  would 
have resulted in him paying less tax. He wants compensation  for the loss he says hes 
suffered. 
background 
Mr K held a personal  pension invested in a With-Profits fund  originally with Scottish 
Amicable which was later taken over by Prudential.
Prudential wrote to Mr K in May 2018  providing a fund valuation  in advance of his selected 
retirement date (SRD)  of 16 October 2018. In the letter it was suggested he should seek 
financial advice to discuss his options  if he wanted to draw the benefits from the pension. 
Prudential said it would  contact Mr K around  four weeks prior to the SRD with details of his 
retirement options. 
In August  2018  Mr K received a letter about the plan and then in September 2018 he 
received a retirement pack  setting out his options, which  included  contact details for Pension 
Wise  a free impartial service provided  by the government to help people  understand the 
options available.
Following receipt of the information Mr K contacted  Prudential to ask a number of questions  
regarding his pension.  These included details  about  how the cash fund worked and whether 
his pension included  any guarantees.  However,  these questions  were not answered to 
Mr Ks satisfaction. 
In September  2018 Mr K registered to use Prudentials online account  system  but he had 
problems using it and having deferred his SRD  he was denied access  to the system to 
obtain a valuation of his pension.
By the end of September  2018 Mr K complained  about the service  hed received. He said:
the secure message facility wasnt fit for purpose. Hed had many  problems with its 
speed and formatting, and he hadnt  received  an answer to the message he did 
send. He said hed wasted two weeks setting up the facility  but was no closer to be 
getting the answers to help him decide  how to draw his benefits.
Hed not been able to get the help he needed  when hed rung Prudential as it 
seemed to want him to seek financial advice elsewhere.
He thought it would now be difficult to adhere to the SRD and wanted to know how 
Prudential would  make  up for any lost time.   
Prudential apologised  for the problems  Mr K had experienced and said it would investigate  
his complaint.
Mr K then contacted Prudential to explain that he was unable to make a decision about  his 
pension as he hadnt been provided with the necessary information.  He said he wanted the 
pension to remain within the With-Profits  fund at his SRD and instructed  it to remain on 
Ref: DRN42216122hold. He also said Prudential had incorrectly addressed him  which he said it had also 
done previously.
Prudential accepted it hadnt  provided  a good service  and initially  offered Mr K £125, and 
subsequently increased that by a further  £150 (making  £275  in total), as a gesture of 
goodwill for the trouble and upset caused to him. It said if he decided to access  his pension  
in the following 30 days it would review the matter and compensate him if its poor service 
had financially impacted him.
But Mr K wasnt  satisfied  with this response, so he brought  his complaint to us. In his 
complaint he explained  that hed only had one objective with Prudential, which was to draw 
his pension benefits in one lump  sum.  He thought  this would be the best thing for him as 
hed been disappointed with Prudentials service  in many ways.  But he also intended to take 
the money, in the forms of two cheques, either side of a tax year in April 2019. He said this 
would mean  he would have paid less tax overall  and allowed him to make contributions to 
ISAs within  two separate tax years. As well as that the saving in tax would have allowed him 
to make up a shortfall he has in national insurance  contributions following a change  in state 
retirement ages. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and said Prudential  hadnt provided a good 
service. He considered  that the goodwill payment and Prudentials offer to review whether  its 
poor service had impacted Mr K financially, if he wanted to draw his benefits, was fair and 
reasonable. The adjudicator also offered to provide Mr K with a specific contact at Prudential  
to help him with the process  of accessing his pension benefits.
Prudential provided  a point of contact  for Mr K and agreed to extend its offer to look into 
whether Mr K had been financially disadvantaged. 
But Mr K didnt agree, and he made  a number  of response points which in summary were:
Prudential failed  to provide professional customer service in late 2018 and early  
2019. This was evidenced by poor quality reading material, poor written 
correspondence, poor telephone contact and service, poorly functioning online 
service, poor unprofessional staff, use of multiple names for the same investment 
funds, and mis information of the process  to draw his pension benefits.
Prudential failed  to act in a timely manner to ensure he could utilise  the most efficient 
way to draw his benefits over two tax years. 
When he contacted  Prudential to take his benefits in March  2019 it took 46 days to 
receive a cheque.  This timeframe  meant  he missed the HMRC  deadline to be able to 
make a contribution  to top up his national  insurance credits.
He didnt receive a response to the problems he had accessing Prudentials  online 
messaging and information  service.
He wasnt provided with the sort of information he needed  in advance to be able to 
make the complex choices relating  to the type of annuity  or other  option  he might  
want to take. 
During this time Prudential wrote to him explaining that it no longer  provided that 
type of annuity. He thought Prudential failed to communicate with him when it 
decided to stop providing the annuity  especially as it was aware that he was in the 
process of investigating his options.  Had he known  earlier he could have acted 
sooner.
He only decided to use the opportunity of taking two cheques after the delays up to 
March 2019. It was now clear to him that Prudential couldnt have concluded  that 
Ref: DRN42216123possibility before the end of tax year deadline.  There were other factors  involved in 
that decision as well which only became clear at the time of his request.
He says two cheques could have been  issued on 4 and 6 April 2019, which would  
have avoided the taxation of just one lump sum at 20%.  He says it was only 
Prudentials erratic and unprofessional  service that stopped  it being achievable.
He didnt think Prudential could manage its illustration process. He said it failed to 
provide him with the illustrations he asked  for and failed  to explain why it no longer 
offers annuities for this type of product.
Why was the pre-printed  risk warning only sent to him in late March 2019. This 
caused delays  in taking his pension  and could have been sent out at any point in the 
process. It took Prudential 46 days to issue a cheque  after he contacted  it in 
March 2019 to draw  his benefits. But in November 2019 he was told a cheque could 
be issued within the next 10 days .
He didnt receive answers  to any of his questions about the cash  fund so he was 
unable to decide how to use it and move  his claim forward.  He says this was due to 
Prudentials mismanagement.
The number of terms Prudential used to explain the cash fund meant  it was difficult 
for him to understand how the fund worked.  There was no consistency or clarity  in 
the information about the fund.
In his letter of 18 September  2018 Mr K asked for annuity quotations and clarification 
of who provided Prudentials annuities. He didnt  think  he was provided with this 
information  despite the fact hed requested a telephone appointment to discuss  the 
matter. He said this question wasnt answered until 11 March 2019  which  didnt 
allow him enough time to take benefits either  side of the tax year.  
Another investigator clarified Mr Ks complaint, as a result he confirmed the following points:
Mr K had four options for drawing his benefits. But the most  appropriate  option  to 
make a capital withdrawal in a tax efficient way was to transfer  the funds to an 
income drawdown plan. This required Mr K to take financial advice which  he didnt 
ask Prudential to provide,  and Prudential had recommended Mr K sought that advice 
on numerous occasions  so it wasnt reasonable to say that Prudential caused 
Mr K to have to encash his entire  pension  and pay a higher amount of tax.
He thought Prudential had provided  enough  information about the cash  fund by 
November 2018 for Mr K to be able to decide  what he wanted to do with his pension.
He noted that Mr K hadnt contacted Prudential to discuss his annuity options  
although he accepted that Mr K had little confidence in Prudential at that point. 
But he felt that, even if Prudential had provided  an annuity illustration, Mr K wouldnt 
have opted to go ahead.  
He felt that Mr Ks own comments suggested he had a requirement for capital and 
therefore would have either  encashed  the pension or gone into drawdown. Given 
Mr K didnt appear to want to take financial advice he was only left with the total 
encashment option.
Overall Prudentials offer of compensation for the level of service  it provided was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
In March 2019 Mr K contacted Prudential and was provided with details of how to draw his 
pension benefits.  He returned  all the necessary  documents to take the plan as a cash  lump 
sum  which  was paid to him in April 2019.
Ref: DRN42216124Mr K didnt agree with the either the investigator  or the initial adjudicators findings and 
asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so its been passed to me for a 
review. Mr K asked me to consider the following questions:
Did Prudentials customer service lead to a failure to provide him with annuity 
quotations?
Did Prudentials customer service lead to him losing income  from a potential annuity?  
Could  he have  paid less income  tax by splitting payment of it over two tax years?
Was Prudentials service from December 2018 to April 2019  considered  to be 
professional enough  and should  further  compensation be considered?
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I agree with the 
outcome thats  been reached  and for largely the same reasons. Mr K has provided detailed 
submissions to support  his complaint,  which I have  read and considered  in their entirety. 
However, I trust that he will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
And for further clarity this decision will only be considering Mr Ks complaint  about 
Prudential. I wont be looking at Mr Ks comments about the way this service has dealt with 
his complaint to date as this has been dealt with separately, and not as part of my role in 
determining this issue with Prudential.
Drawing the benefits over two tax years
Mr K says when he came  back to Prudential  in March 2019 to draw his pension  benefits it 
took 46 days until the cheque was paid to him  which he thought  was an unacceptable 
delay and cost him the opportunity to send a cheque  to HMRC for his national  insurance top 
up contributions. I havent seen any evidence  that Mr K told Prudential  how to pay his 
benefits until March  2019, despite  his dealings with it from mid 2018. So Ive carefully 
considered the actions  of both parties from March 2019. Prudential said that it would make  
the payment when  it had received all the outstanding requirements and, looking at the 
sequence of events, I think Prudential acted reasonably  and in line with its regulatory 
requirements. It provided Mr K with the necessary risk warnings and eventually made 
payment within  9 working days of the requirements  being met  so I cant  safely say that 
Prudential caused  unnecessary delays  there.
Mr K has said that much  of the paperwork he received was unnecessary and simply 
repeated information  hed already told Prudential. He says it just wasted further opportunities 
to pay him before the end of the tax year.  
But, as Ive said, I think Prudential was required to provide the warnings and information it 
issued, and I dont  think it could have speeded  up the process by cutting out these steps. I 
havent seen any evidence to show that Prudential included  unnecessary  information or 
confirmation requests  during the payment process. 
Mr K has suggested that hes suffered a consequential financial loss as he wasnt  given 
enough help or time by Prudential to set up payments from his pension so that he could  take 
two payments either side of a tax year. Hes provided calculations of the tax he would have 
Ref: DRN42216125paid in that scenario as opposed to the position  he found himself  in.  He said to have taken 
my benefits  in 2 cheques, for example, one dated 4 April 2019  and the second  dated 
6 April 2019 could  have been done. It could have been prepared  at the end of March and 
with a P45 for one year and I believe  a second  P45 for the following year. 
Theres no evidence that Mr K told Prudential that he was looking to take his benefits in the 
form of two cheques  either side of the tax year. Or that he wanted  a payment to be made 
with the end of the tax year as a deadline.  So, I dont Prudential was made  aware that it 
should be working toward such  a request. But in any case,  the only way Mr K could have 
drawn his benefits  in stages, or in separate pots,  was if hed transferred his pension fund into 
a new drawdown  plan. If hed simply taken  an annuity  or transferred to another provider  or, 
as happened here, taken  the benefits as a taxable lump  sum, the payment  would  always 
have been made as one single payment. 
If Mr K had indicated he wanted to transfer his benefits into a drawdown  plan he could have 
taken the tax free sum and withdrawn ad-hoc payments whenever he wanted,  including  
across tax years. But he didnt indicate  that he wanted to transfer to a drawdown plan  
which was something  Prudential said he would need to take advice to do. I dont think,  on 
balance from all the evidence that Ive seen,  that Mr K wanted to take advice  about  a 
drawdown plan option. But in any case,  even if he had decided on that course of action,  its 
unlikely that he could have received that advice  and been able to draw any income from the 
plan before the end of the tax year. Of course  I accept that Mr K wouldnt have needed  to 
pay tax on his entire fund if hed set up a drawdown  plan,  but as Ive said theres  no 
evidence that this was an option  he wanted  to pursue.
So, in the circumstances I dont think Mr K could have  chosen an option  that allowed him to 
receive two separate payments either  side of the tax year  so I dont think  Prudential should 
have to refund any of the tax Mr K paid when he accessed his pension benefits.
The issue  of the cash fund
Its clear from Mr Ks email of 11 October 2018  that he was confused by the reference to 
cash fund and exempt cash fund  within a previous letter  from Prudential.  And he stated 
that this meant he wasnt able to decide  on what action to take.  This was only five days 
before his original  SRD so I think this would have inconvenienced him and disrupted  his 
planning. I can see he was left with no alternative but to maintain his existing fund while he 
awaited an answer to this and other  outstanding questions. 
Mr K says that when  he did receive  the information  about the cash  fund it was inconsistent  
and unclear. He says Prudential referred to the fund in a number  of ways and was unclear  
about its charges  and potential for returns.  And I know that Mr K would have liked the 
information to have been clearer  and set out in a certain way. 
But that doesnt mean Prudential did anything wrong  here simply because Mr K was 
unhappy with the format  of the information.  Looking at the letter Prudential sent on 
15 October 2018 it confirmed some  basic facts about the cash fund, and it had previously 
referred Mr K to its website  where  details of all its funds were available.  Although  I accept 
Prudential could have  done more in terms of what it told Mr K in October  2018.  However,  
Prudential raised  the question  of the cash fund in its retirement pack, when  it explained that 
the terms and conditions of Mr Ks plan meant  his pension  would  be switched into the cash 
fund no earlier than a month before benefits were drawn. This was to remove  the potential  
for any significant falls in the plans value.  
Ref: DRN42216126So, it wasnt  really a decision that Mr K had to make as the switch was made  automatically  
unless he decided to defer his benefits,  which he did in October 2018, in which  case the 
funds remained in the existing fund until one month  before the new SRD. So, while I 
understand that Prudential could have been more robust in providing information about the 
cash fund, which I think can be dealt with below under the heading of poor service, I dont 
think the issue of the cash  fund caused  Mr K any financial loss or should  have added to any 
delay in his ability to access his benefits.   
The poor service Mr K says he was given from Prudential in 2018  and 2019.  
Mr K received a retirement pack from Prudential in August  2018  in advance of his SRD. It 
confirmed the approximate fund value of his plan and set out three main options  to access 
his benefits. It confirmed that he should contact Prudential to discuss  these options and gave 
details of how he could  contact Pension  Wise and/or his financial adviser  if he wished to do 
so which Prudential  recommended.  Prudential  also outlined  that Mr Ks investment would 
revert to a cash fund, prior to him accessing  his benefits, if he decided to draw  them.   
Thereafter Mr K did contact Prudential  and, in a letter dated 18 September  2018, he asked 
for details  of how to transfer the pension  to the cash fund. He asked for details on how to 
take the whole fund  after drawing his tax free cash and paying 20% tax on the balance.  He 
also asked for annuity quotes for £30,000 and £40,0000 and whether Prudential simply 
facilitated annuities  as opposed to providing  them. He set out dates and times for Prudential 
to call him.
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Mr K to ask these questions,  I would have expected 
Prudential to either provide answers  to them or to have  explained  why it couldnt answer 
them, for example  if advice was needed instead of information. But I cant see that 
Prudential did directly  answer Mr Ks questions  here and can understand Mr Ks frustrations 
around the way he was treated from this point forward. Indeed theres  no evidence to show  
that Prudential  had addressed a number of Mr Ks points until it began  to investigate  his 
complaint. Mr K was so frustrated about the lack of response and information  that on 
11 October 2018 he requested that his pension wasnt switched to another fund and 
remained as it was until the complaint process was completed.
Following this request  from Mr K, Prudential issued several communications which  built on 
previous answers  to his complaint. Each  one contained some form of request for Mr K to 
make contact to discuss his options  around accessing his pension. I think this was a 
reasonable way to address the annuity question. Prudential didnt have enough  information  
about Mr Ks circumstances and objectives to provide quotations  along  the lines he had 
requested. 
It needed to know  what additional options to include: such as guarantee periods, single or 
joint life annuities, escalating income  or fixed income and whether it needed to consider 
enhanced or impaired  life annuities according  to Mr Ks lifestyle  or medical history. 
So I think it made sense  to ask him to contact it so that it could explore these options and 
provide more appropriate illustrations. I think the confusion at this time was that Prudential 
was trying to answer Mr Ks questions and provide any outstanding  information whilst 
dealing with his overall complaint, while Mr K didnt  want Prudential to progress his claim to 
draw his pension  benefits until he was satisfied  with the outcome of the investigation. 
Ref: DRN42216127The unfortunate consequence of this was that Mr K didnt contact Prudential  directly about 
accessing his benefits until March 2019 which meant benefits  werent  paid across two tax 
years as Mr K says he would have  liked.
I note that Mr K brought  his complaint  to us in November 2018,  so I appreciate he was 
clearly trying  to resolve the issue. But equally I havent seen any evidence  that Prudential  
told Mr K he couldnt continue with his claim  for pension benefits during that time. I know  
Mr K will say that he didnt wish to complete his claim until the outstanding issues were 
resolved, but its not clear to me what new information he was provided with before 
March 2019 which meant  he was able to progress matters, or whether  he simply wanted to 
try and get his benefits before the end of the tax year passed. 
Mr K has explained, in great detail, the problem  with each part of Prudentials service  and 
the impact it had on him. Ive looked  at his submissions very carefully and I can understand 
the frustration he would  have had over some of these matters. I agree that some of the 
information he received could  have  been clearer in helping him finalise his decision and I 
can appreciate how he felt over his experience  of both telephone and online communication.  
I think Prudential could  have dealt with Mr Ks request for annuities illustrations in a clearer  
way and Ive also seen how Prudential did address Mr K in different ways, which included as 
Ms K, which I can understand would have caused him some  distress.
Mr K has also explained  that his experience  with various businesses  in recent years 
persuaded him to draw  his pension benefits with Prudential as one lump sum so that he 
could control his funds  in retirement. And hes been  consistent in what  hes said about this 
matter. So I can understand Mr Ks frustrations that many of the things he says he suffered  
previously such as IT problems and poor service seem to be the reason hes not been able 
to conclude his transaction  with Prudential.  
But Prudential has acknowledged its shortcomings here and has paid Mr K £275, in total 
compensation, for the distress  and inconvenience  its service  caused him throughout this 
matter. I note Prudentials  final l response  letter confirmed that I acknowledge the recent 
information we provided has been  piecemeal and lacks the detail you have asked for. Please 
accept our apologies for this. I would like to stress this has been the result of poor service  on 
our part, rather than anything more sinister. We have clearly  let you down and I am able to 
support your complaint as a result of this this. The letter went on to answer most of Mr Ks 
complaint points and gave  him the opportunity  to contact  Prudential in order to resolve the 
issue of his benefits and said it would look to compensate him if its poor service  caused any 
delays in paying his benefits if he concluded  matters within  30 days, which  unfortunately 
didnt happen.
So theres no dispute that Prudential made  errors and caused significant  distress  and 
inconvenience to Mr K here. So primarily what I need to consider is how that impacted on 
Mr K and whether  the compensation thats been  paid is enough.
Overall, in this case, I think  the sum offered  (and paid to Mr K) is within  the range of what  Id 
expect to see for failings  such  as this. So Im not going to ask Prudential  to do any more. I 
dont think Prudential was responsible  for any delay in Mr K not formally requesting his 
benefits until March  2019, even though I think it could have been clearer in its information  
and communications.  And I think Prudential completed the payment process in a timely  
manner when Mr K did request his benefits. 
But, on balance, I dont  think Mr K would have chosen the option  of taking financial advice in 
order to transfer his pension to a drawdown  plan, which Im satisfied  Prudential  made Mr K 
Ref: DRN42216128aware of. So I dont think he would have been  able to achieve his preferred  method of 
receiving two separate cheque payments to reduce his income tax liability.  
my final decision
The Prudential Assurance Company  Limited has already paid £275 in total to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2021.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4221612