K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Scotwest Credit  Union Limited didnt process  his same day withdrawal 
request correctly. Hes also unhappy that poor investigation of what happened led to a 
duplicate payment being made. 
background
During the morning  of 22 February 2019 Mr G telephoned Scotwest to make a same day 
transfer of £355  out of his savings account. He said the funds  were  for his sons birthday and 
he was planning  to take him away on a pre-planned and partly  pre-paid trip. The funds 
werent transferred  that day though. And when  Mr G tried to call Scotwest  it had closed. So 
he wasnt able to speak  to anyone before going  away. Mr G said he was able to borrow  the 
funds he needed  from family. But this caused  embarrassment. And he said what  happened 
was stressful. 
On 25 February 2019 he telephoned Scotwest  to query why he hadnt  received his 
withdrawal request as expected. During  that discussion  Scotwest thought his withdrawal 
request had been missed completely. So, it processed a same day transfer  on his behalf  for 
£355 to ensure that he received his funds without  further delay. Those funds reached  his 
account that day. But the following day a further  £355 credited his account  leading to two 
amounts in that sum debiting  his savings account.
Mr G wasnt happy about what happened  so he complained to Scotwest. After  it investigated  
it upheld his complaint.  It said,  at this stage, it had ascertained  that the initial  transfer on 22 
February had been processed incorrectly as a BACS payment. And it said this was the 
reason for the delay in him receiving his money  as BACS  payments can take 2-3 days  to 
reach the recipients  account. It accepted it had made an error in dealing with his request to 
transfer funds out of his savings account on 22 February and asked him to contact it to 
discuss repayment of the overpayment.  In recognition  of what  happened  Scotwest  offered 
Mr G £25 as a goodwill  gesture. 
Mr G wasnt satisfied with how Scotwest  had handled his complaint and he rejected the 
compensation it had offered him. He didnt think the sum offered adequately reflected his 
inconvenience and experience. So he referred  his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint and felt Scotwests offer to put things right 
didnt go far enough to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he was caused 
by its mistake. Instead they thought an additional award of £75 would more appropriately 
compensate Mr G for his experience. He accepted  this. But Scotwest disagreed with the 
investigators recommendation. It thought  the £25 it had already paid Mr G was fair and 
reasonable here. So, it asked for this complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as the investigator for very similar reasons. I appreciate that Scotwest will be 
disappointed with this decision but I hope it can understand the reasons behind  it.
Scotwest has accepted  it was responsible  for what happened and offered Mr G £25 to 
compensate him for the impact this all had. Mr G doesnt think  thats enough  given the upset 
Ref: DRN40330392and stress  he was caused. And our investigator  agreed with him. They thought  an award of 
£100 more fairly recognised the trouble  and upset Mr G experienced. But Scotwest 
disagrees because  it feels its original offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr G mentioned that hes experienced the same error with a transfer previously but the issue  
here concerns the problems he experienced during this transfer. And it wouldnt be fair for 
me to comment on or consider a previous  problem,  which isnt the subject of this complaint.   
My role here is to determine whether the compensation  Scotwest offered is fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of this dispute. And in thinking  about what a fair 
offer to put things right looks  like here, Ive considered things from both sides.
Ill say at the outset  that I think Scotwest  acted  correctly  in accepting responsibility  at an 
early stage. But the difficulties Mr G experienced shouldnt have happened.  They  were  
caused by two errors; the first was when Scotwest  processed Mr Gs transfer  as a BACS 
payment instead  of the same day withdrawal  he had requested.  And the second error was 
when it failed to realise  this, which  led to a second  payment  instruction being  initiated. 
Mr Gs withdrawal request should have  been dealt with properly on 22 February. He had 
asked for a same day transfer and its reasonable to have expected Scotwest  to process his 
payment in line with his request. Had that happened  he wouldnt have experienced any the 
problems he subsequently faced. 
Im pleased to see that Mr G was able to minimise the impact Scotwests mistake had on 
him.  I say this because  he didnt  have to cancel his travel  plans  with his son as a result  of 
Scotwests error. I appreciate that this was a significant trip for both he and his son. And I 
also recognise that he was only able to continue with those plans because he was able to 
borrow money from family. This was a partly  prepaid trip so Ive no doubt  that if he hadnt 
been able to source money from family hed have needed to cancel his plans. Im sure that 
having to approach family to borrow money was inconvenient and embarrassing.  I can also 
understand how what happened  wouldve caused  unnecessary worry and anxiety and 
frustration. With that in mind Im not persuaded that Scotwests offer of £25 compensation 
appropriately recognises the difficulties  it caused Mr G here.  
I think Scotwest shouldve been able to see that the BACS payment was due to reach Mr Gs 
account when  he spoke with it on 25 February.  Its accepted there was an insufficient level of 
investigation when  Mr G contacted it. And Im persuaded  that had it looked into his account 
properly this would have avoided him receiving two payments instead of the one he had 
requested. This caused additional inconvenience in the sense that the overpayment then 
needed to be repaid  by Mr G. And Im not persuaded £25 compensation fairly reflects  that.
With that in mind, Ive thought carefully about  what a fair offer to put things right looks  like 
here. Our investigator recommended a compensation award of £100. But Scotwest feels this 
is disproportionate given  its status as a not for profit organisation and other cases  its been 
involved in. While I hear what Scotwest  says here I think its important to say that when 
considering an award  of compensation we look at the impact  of a business mistake  on the 
consumer not who the business is or how it will impact on them.
I can see that Scotwest has referred  our service to an example of a previous complaint we 
dealt with against it. It has sought  to compare the award in that case to the award  
recommended by our investigator. But this service considers complaints on an individual 
basis. And any compensation  awarded needs to reflect the impact on the individual  people 
Ref: DRN40330393involved because the same situation could  have a considerably different impact on different  
consumers. So, I cant comment on the compensation  that was awarded in a different case. 
Having had regard  to the impact Scotwests mistakes had on Mr G Im satisfied that an 
additional £75 compensation  is fair and reasonable for the reasons already outlined. This 
takes the overall award to £100  and is in line with awards made by this service in 
comparable circumstances.  
I understand Mr G is unhappy  that Scotwest rebalanced his account prior to his complaint 
being resolved  by our service. So, Ive thought about whether Scotwest made an error in the 
way in deal with this overpayment. 
It said Mr G refused to engage  with it or cooperate with regards to repaying the overpaid 
£355. It said it wrote to him on a number of occasions and extended deadlines for him to 
make contact to discuss repayment  of that sum. But he failed to respond.  So, on 26 April it 
adjusted his savings  account by £330.  The remaining £25 was retained  by Mr G as the 
goodwill gesture payment  Scotwest had offered him in February in resolution  of his 
complaint.
While I appreciate that Mr G isnt happy  about this decision  being  taken prior to our process 
ending theres  no requirement for Scotwest  to wait before it corrects an overpayment. Its not 
in dispute that Mr G wasnt entitled to retain  this duplicate  payment and he didnt contact 
Scotwest despite its efforts to reach him. Having seen  its final response letter Im satisfied 
Scotwest clearly outlined Mr Gs options  regarding overpayment.  But two months after hed 
received the overpayment it still hadnt  been paid back. And in those circumstances I cant 
fairly find that Scotwest acted unreasonably in rebalancing his account. 
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think Scotwest did enough to resolve M Gs complaint  
and, like our investigator,  I dont  think the £25 compensation it has already paid adequately 
recognised the inconvenience and distress he was caused here. Im satisfied  that that the 
additional £75 compensation  award  recommended by our investigator takes into account the 
overall circumstances  of what happened and is more appropriate here. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. ScotWest Credit  Union Limited  should  pay 
Mr G an additional £75 in compensation to resolve this complaint (taking  the total amount to 
£100).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4033039