K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited trading as Satsuma Loans gave him 
loans he couldnt  afford to repay.
background
Mr N took out three loans  with Satsuma between February and September 2017.  Loan one 
was taken out on 27 February  for £750 repayable  in 3 monthly  instalments of £369. Mr N 
settled this loan early on 25 April 2017. Loan two was taken out on 18 August 2017 for 
£1000 repayable in 6 monthly instalments of £316. Mr N settled this loan early on 15 
September 2017. Loan 3 was taken out on 24 September 2017 for £2000  repayable  in 12 
monthly instalments  of £332. Mr N fell into difficulties repaying this loan and a balance 
remains outstanding.
Mr N says the money was lent to him irresponsibly. He wants the debt written  off.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that Satsuma hadnt  been wrong to 
give loans one and two to Mr N. He thought that based on the figures  Mr N had declared for 
his income and outgoings the loans appeared affordable. For loan three he thought that Mr 
N wouldnt be left with enough disposable income  after making the loan repayment  to repay 
the borrowing  sustainably  and so he recommended that the complaint was upheld in relation 
to loan three.
Satsuma replied to say that the adjudicator had mistakenly calculated  Mr Ns disposable 
income and that Mr N had £365.38  left after making the loan repayment. The complaint was 
then passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision saying that I didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. 
A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings, are attached and 
form part of this final decision.
Mr N confirmed he had seen my decision and had nothing further to add and Provident didnt 
reply.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Provident and Mr N didnt  raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision.  So
Ive reached the same  conclusions I reached  before, for the same  reasons. 
Ref: DRN42756992my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 November  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42756993Extract from provisional decision.
background
Mr N took out three loans  with Satsuma between February and September 2017.  Loan one 
was taken out on 27 February  for £750 repayable  in 3 monthly  instalments of £369. Mr N 
settled this loan early on 25 April 2017. Loan two was taken out on 18 August 2017 for 
£1000 repayable in 6 monthly instalments of £316. Mr N settled this loan early on 15 
September 2017. Loan 3 was taken out on 24 September 2017 for £2000  repayable  in 12 
monthly instalments  of £332. Mr N fell into difficulties repaying this loan and a balance 
remains outstanding.
Mr N says the money was lent to him irresponsibly. He wants the debt written  off.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that Satsuma hadnt  been wrong to 
give loans one and two to Mr N. He thought that based on the figures  Mr N had declared for 
his income and outgoings the loans appeared affordable. For loan three he thought that Mr 
N wouldnt be left with enough disposable income  after making the loan repayment  to repay 
the borrowing  sustainably  and so he recommended that the complaint was upheld in relation 
to loan three.
Satsuma replied to say that the adjudicator had mistakenly calculated  Mr Ns disposable 
income and that Mr N had £365.38  left after making the loan repayment. The complaint was 
then passed to me for a decision.
  
my provisional findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
N could repay the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN42756994There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr N could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ns complaint.
For each loan Mr N told Satsuma he was earning £1800. He said that his outgoings  were  
£550. On the basis  of these figures the loans would appear to be easily affordable. Satsuma  
carried out a credit check for each loan and based  on those results it adjusted  Mr Ns total 
monthly outgoings figure. After loan one had been  repaid Satsuma  calculated  that Mr N 
would have £502.14 left and for loan two this figure  was £445.93.  I agree  with the 
adjudicator that based on the figures  and the checks carried out by Satsuma it wasnt  wrong  
to give Mr N these loans.
For loan three Satsuma calculated that Mr Ns disposable income after the loan had been 
repaid was £365.38. Our adjudicator calculated that Mr N would only have around £33 left as 
he deducted the loan repayment again  from the disposable income. On this basis  he said 
the loan shouldnt have been given to Mr N. Looking at the correct figures I am minded to 
conclude that this loan was affordable for Mr N and Satsuma didnt do anything  wrong  by 
lending to Mr N.
There was nothing of concern  in the credit  checks that suggested further checks should  be 
carried out and Mr Ns borrowing pattern wasnt concerning at this stage. He had taken out 
two loans with a gap of over three  months and repaid both loans early. The monthly  
repayments looked affordable on the figures and Satsuma made allowances  for the 
information in Mr Ns credit file. On balance, I am minded to conclude  that the loan was 
affordable.     
Ref: DRN4275699