K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have declined a claim hes 
made on his pet insurance policy.
background
Mr C took out a pet insurance policy with RSA in January 2019 for his dog. The policy 
started in February  2019. The policy included a clause which  said that RSA wouldnt pay 
claims for illnesses in the first 14 days of the policy.
In March 2019, Mr C took his dog to his vet as hed spotted blood  in her faeces. Shed been 
vomiting and had diarrhoea in the four days before he took her to the vet. Mr C made a claim 
for his dogs  treatment,  which RSA declined. It says that the notes from the vet show  that 
signs of the illness were noticed four days before Mr C took his dog to the vets. This means 
that there  was a change in the dogs health within 14 days  of the policy starting and was 
therefore excluded.
Mr C disagreed and asked us to look into his complaint. Mr C says he understands the need  
for a 14-day  exclusion  period. But he thinks it doesnt apply  here as he bought the insurance  
policy more than 14 days before his dog became unwell and it wasnt  a pre-existing 
condition. He wants RSA to re-examine the facts and realise that it is a genuine  claim.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint, noting that the policy wording confirms that the 
14-day exclusion  period  runs from the date when the policy  started, not when it was bought. 
Mr C disagreed. He says that the vomiting and diarrhoea hed seen in the four days  before 
going to the vets were not unusual  (though not common) and that his dog showed no other 
signs of ill health.  He says that the first clinical signs were  the blood  in his dogs faeces. The 
case has now been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To make a successful claim, the policyholder  needs  to show that they have suffered a loss 
that is covered  by the policy. In this case, Im satisfied  Mr C has done this. Ive seen the 
notes from the vet which show that Mr Cs dog was very ill and was treated by the vet.
If a policyholder shows that they have suffered a loss covered by the policy,  the insurer  will 
settle the claim unless  it can demonstrate that the claim is excluded from cover. In this case,  
for Mr Cs claim to be excluded, RSA has to show that there  were  changes in the dogs 
health within 14 days of the start of the policy. RSA points out that the notes provided by the 
vet show that clinical  signs  of illness were noticeable  four days  before Mr C took his dog to 
the vets for the blood in her faeces. Ive looked  at the dates  for the relevant time and I can 
see why RSA say that the illness fell within the 14-day  exclusion period. Based  on the 
evidence Ive seen,  I think its reasonable for RSA to conclude that there were signs  of the 
illness within  14 days of the start of the policy. This means that Mr Cs claim is not covered 
and can be declined.
Overall, I think that RSA has applied the terms and conditions of the policy correctly and that 
it acted fairly  when it declined Mr Cs claim for his dogs treatment.
Ref: DRN40399552my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Geoff Pearson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4039955