K822xcomplaint
Mr R is complaining about the way Tesco Mobile Limited (Tesco) has handled a point of sale 
loan he took out to buy a phone.  
background 
The facts  of this complaint  are well known to both parties, so I wont set them out in detail. 
But, in summary, Mr R entered into an agreement in November 2017 with Tesco  to take out 
a mobile phone line rental contract  and also a credit sale agreement to acquire a new mobile 
phone. In March 2018,  following a conversation with one of Tescos  call handlers, Mr R paid 
Tesco £77.14  to pay off the credit sale agreement for the phone. But Tesco applied this to 
the wrong account, so Mr R continued  to make  repayments towards the credit agreement. 
In June 2018 Mr R realised he was still making  payments towards  the agreement  and called 
Tesco to complain. Tesco explained  what had happened to Mr R, apologised and amended  
the agreement  to reflect what had happened. But Mr R was unhappy  with the way Tesco  had 
handled his complaint. And, in particular,  he didnt think it had considered the impact  this had 
on his credit file and the various contractual and DPA breaches it had caused.
Mr R said that, due to Tescos mistakes, he shouldnt have to continue  with the line rental 
contract so he cancelled it. He also cancelled his direct debit and closed his Tesco current  
account. Tesco said that he still owed £135  for the remaining 13 months of the contract. And 
it took the payment from his new bank account.  
Mr R was unhappy that Tesco had taken the payment as he had cancelled  the direct debit 
mandate. And he told his new bank that he didnt authorise that payment. So the bank 
reclaimed it back from Tesco and credited it back to his account. As a result, Tesco  has 
instructed debt collectors to recover the payment. Mr R is unhappy that Tesco has done so 
and is also unhappy  with the way the debt recovery company has acted. He maintains that 
he doesnt owe this money. 
Tesco acknowledged  that it applied the money  to the wrong  account  and that this had 
caused Mr R some distress and inconvenience. So it offered Mr R £120 in compensation 
and it said it would refund  the payments that Mr R made towards the agreement since  
March 2018. Mr R didnt  think  this was adequate taking everything  into account. He also 
maintained that he didnt  owe any more  money on the line rental  contract.
As he remained unhappy with Tescos  response  he referred his complaint to this service. 
Since then,  hes also highlighted that Tesco has incorrectly updated his credit file to say that 
he settled his line rental contract  early in March 2018 rather  than his credit sale agreement.
Our investigator said that we werent  able to look at the line rental contract because it wasnt  
a regulated agreement. And this included the actions of the debt collector.  But he said that 
we could look at the way that Tesco had handled the credit sale agreement.  He agreed with 
Mr R that Tesco hadnt acted fairly. But he thought it had offered to take reasonable steps to 
put things right. However he also thought that Tesco should add 8% simple  interest  to the 
payments Mr R made since March 2018  from the date he made  them until the date he gets 
them back. 
Tesco didnt  think it was fair that it had to pay 8% simple interest  as it had offered to make 
the payment,  but Mr R hadnt accepted the compensation offer.
Ref: DRN44926952Mr R strongly  disagreed with the investigators  opinion. He thinks  we should look at 
everything thats happened. And he didnt think that the investigator had taken into account 
everything hed provided. He maintains  that Tescos offer is not sufficient given all the issues 
that hes raised.
The complaints now been passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same  conclusion as the investigator and Ill now explain why.
Mr R has raised  a number of points that he wants this service  to take into account  and Ive 
taken them all into account.  Ive not commented  on each and every point hes raised.  No 
discourtesy is meant by this, but it simply reflects  the informal  nature of this service. In this 
decision Ive focussed  on what  I think are the key issues.
 
Id like to first set out that this service  doesnt  regulate the financial industry. So its not our 
role to ensure  that Tesco is complying with relevant regulations or to fine and punish it for 
any mistakes  made. Responsibility for that rests with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
This service is a dispute resolution service  and our role is to assess  whether a business has 
acted fairly  and reasonably and, if not, to assess whether its taken reasonable steps to put 
things right.
Ive looked at the contract Mr R took out with Tesco and its clear  that he took out two 
separate contracts  a 24 month line rental  usage  contract and also a 24 month  credit  sale 
agreement to acquire  a mobile phone. I shall deal with each contract separately.
usage contract
Mr R is unhappy that Tesco  is pursuing him for £135  after he cancelled his line rental 
contract. He says he was entitled to cancel it following the various errors, breach of contract 
and DPA issues he says Tesco  did. Hes also unhappy with the way the debt collector is 
pursuing him for the debt.
This service doesnt have  the power to look at every  complaint that we receive. Our powers 
to consider complaints  are set out in the Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000 (FSMA) 
and in rules,  known as the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) written  by the FCA in 
accordance with the powers it derives from FSMA. These form part of the FCA Handbook.
DISP 2.3.1 sets what complaints this service can and cant  look at, which  are as follows:
regulated activities
payment services
lending money  secured  by a charge on land 
lending money
paying money by a plastic card
providing ancillary banking services  
Ref: DRN44926953or any ancillary activities carried out by Tesco in connection with the activities  listed above.
The issue  here is whether  the provision of a mobile phone contract is a regulated activity or 
not. The Financial  Services  and Markets Act 2000  (Regulated Activities) Order  2001 sets out 
whats considered  to be a regulated activity. And the provision of a mobile phone contract to 
use a phone on a mobile network  isnt considered a regulated activity.
The regulated activities do allow me to consider a complaint about debt collecting, but only if 
the debt itself relates to a credit agreement,  or a hire agreement. A mobile phone contract 
doesnt fall into either  of these categories.
Given this, I cant look at any aspect  of Mr Rs complaint that relates to Tescos handling of 
the line rental contract  including whether its fair for it to say he owes  £135 and the way the 
debt collector has acted.
credit sale agreement
Theres no dispute that Tesco has handled this unfairly. It seems that Mr R called Tesco  to 
find out how much hed have to pay to end this agreement. And the call handler explained 
that this was £77.14. Mr R paid this to Tesco, but it applied it to the wrong account. So Mr R 
continued to pay the monthly repayment  for four months. My role here is to assess whether  
Tesco has made a fair offer to put things right. 
I can fully appreciate why Mr R is unhappy  with what happened here. But I also think that 
this was just a simple  administrative error. Other than the distress  and inconvenience  this 
matter has caused  Mr R, I havent seen anything to show that he has lost out significantly as 
a result of this. Hes provided us with a copy of his credit agreement  and, while  I do not 
dispute that there are incorrect entries on there, Im satisfied that this hasnt impacted on his 
credit score.
That said,  Tesco did incorrectly  continue to take payments to repay  the balance after 
March 2018. And Mr R is clearly out of pocket as a result. Tesco  should, therefore,  refund all 
these payments to Mr R. it should also add 8% simple interest from the date he paid them 
until he gets them back. I note Tesco says that it already offered to refund this, but Mr R 
didnt accept this offer so it doesnt  think it should have to pay compensatory  interest. But the 
root cause of him being out of pocket  is down to the fact it incorrectly took the payments. 
Mr R has also shown that there continues to be an incorrect  entry on his credit file as it says 
that the agreement was settled in July 2018. But Mr R paid it off in March 2018.  So it needs 
to update his credit  file to record this correctly  if it hasnt  already done so.
Finally, I dont dispute that this matter has caused  Mr R a lot of distress  and inconvenience. 
But, while Mr R didnt agree with Tescos response, Im satisfied that it did look to try and 
swiftly resolve the matter  for him. And, as I said above, I do think that this was a simple 
administrative error. Tesco has already offered Mr R £120 in compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  its caused him. And I think this is in line with the amount of 
compensation that I would  have awarded.  So I dont think it needs to award anything further 
in this respect.
Ref: DRN44926954my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I partially  uphold  this complaint. 
And I require  Tesco  Mobile Limited  to do the following to put things right if it hasnt  already  
done so:
1.refund  all payments  to Mr R made towards  the finance agreement since  March 2018. It 
should also add 8% simple interest from the date he paid them until he gets them back. 
HM Revenue  and Customs requires Tesco to deduct basic rate tax from this settlement. 
But it should  give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one;
2.update his credit file to correctly record that the credit sale agreement  was settled in 
July 2018;
3.pay Mr R £120 for the distress and inconvenience its caused him.
I make  no further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Guy Mitchell 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4492695