K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc delayed the completion  of their mortgage.  
Mr R also complains that Barclays  mishandled his request for an increase in his overdraft 
limit.
background
Mr R is represented in this complaint by his wife, Mrs R.
Mr R was a builder and a sole trader. In 2009  he decided to buy some  land at auction so that 
he could build two houses on it and then sell it for a profit.  In October or November 2009 
(there is a dispute  about the exact date) he applied, jointly with Mrs R, for a loan to fund the 
purchase. He already had a secured  loan and an overdraft with Barclays, so Barclays was 
unwilling to lend to him again. But it referred  them to The Woolwich, which offered them a 
mortgage in late December. The auction had already happened by then,  and so Mr R 
missed the opportunity to buy and develop the land.
Mr and Mrs R blame  Barclays  for this, because the mortgage offer was conditional on 
Barclays agreeing  to allow the mortgage to take priority over the charge Barclays  held over 
the same  property, and Barclays  would not agree to this until it had obtained an up to date 
valuation of the property. Mr and Mrs R say this was unnecessary, because  it should have 
already been obvious  to Barclays that they had enough assets  to offer Barclays adequate 
security even without the first charge. But Barclays says it could not agree to release its 
charge before getting the valuation.
The mortgage was completed in March  2010.  Mr R used the money  to build two houses on 
some land he already  owned.
In April 2012 Mr R asked  Barclays to increase  his overdraft  limit by £5,000,  but this was 
mistakenly treated  as an application to increase it by £35,000. That request was rejected by 
Barclayss lending team. Mr Rs relationship  manager raised his request again, this time for 
the correct amount, and it was rejected again. Barclays  says this was because  of various 
concerns it had about the progress of the building project and about Mr Rs finances, and 
was nothing to do with the amount requested or its error.
Eventually Mr R sold the two new houses,  and his own home, and repaid the mortgage.
Mr R complained to our Service about  each of these issues: the delays to the mortgage, the 
application to increase  the overdraft limit by the wrong amount, and the decision to decline 
the £5,000 increase. (He also complained  that the mortgage  had been  unsuitable  for his 
needs, but our adjudicator decided that our Service did not have jurisdiction to consider that 
issue, because Mr R had complained about  it too late under our time limits. They needed  to 
have complained about it within six months of the banks final response  letter,  but they had 
not done so.)
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. She thought Barclays  had been entitled to get 
a valuation, and not to release its charge until it had established that it would still have 
sufficient security after it did so. She said the delays had not been unreasonable.  Barclays 
had not been responsible for any of the problems  in completing the building  work. The 
mistake in dealing  with Mr Rs request for a higher overdraft limit had delayed  the eventual 
Ref: DRN45789912outcome by a few days, but had not otherwise affected it, and Barclays  offer of £125 
compensation for that delay had been fair.
Mrs R did not accept  that opinion. On behalf  of her husband, she asked  for an ombudsmans  
decision. This complaint was referred  to me, and at my invitation Mrs R also signed our 
complaint form and became a complainant along  with her husband, because part of the 
complaint was about a joint mortgage. (However, Mr R remains the sole complainant  in 
relation to his complaint about the overdraft.)
I wrote  a provisional decision in which I said that the entire complaint about the mortgage 
(not just the part about suitability) fell out of our jurisdiction, because it had been brought too 
late. Under the time limits  set by the Financial Conduct Authority, Mr and Mrs R needed to 
have a written record of their complaint having been  received within  six years of the events 
they were complaining about, but there  was no record of their having  complained  earlier than 
June 2016, which was more than six years  after the mortgage. (There  was a record  of them 
having complained earlier than that about  the suitability of the mortgage, but I agreed with 
the adjudicator  that this was out of time under the six months time limit).
However, I accepted  that the complaint about the overdraft limit increase was within 
jurisdiction, as those events had occurred in 2012.  I said that I would deal with the merits of 
that issue in my final decision.
Mrs R emphasised that she had complained about the mortgage in numerous phone calls in 
2012, but she conceded that she had no written record of that. In relation to the overdraft, 
she disagreed  with the banks reasons for refusing the limit increase. She said that Mr Rs 
business had been doing well, and he had only asked  for a temporary increase of £5,000 
while he awaited a delayed payment from a customer.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I remain of the opinion that our Service does not have power to deal with any part of the 
mortgage complaint,  for the same  reasons I gave in detail in my provisional decision,  as 
summarised above.
Mr Rs request to increase the overdraft limit by £5,000  from £30,000 to £35,000  was 
wrongly treated  as a request to increase it by £35,000, instead of to that amount (resulting in 
an application for a new overdraft limit of £65,000). The bank  accepts that that was a 
mistake. However, from the evidence I have seen,  I am satisfied that the bank corrected  this 
error a few days later by considering the application  again, and this time considering the 
correct amount: an increase of £5,000, to £35,000. The outcome was the same,  and for the 
same reasons, but that does  not mean that the initial error contributed to the second 
decision to decline the requested increase. So I think that the only consequence of the 
banks error  is that Mr R was told of the banks decision  a few days  later than would have 
been the case if nothing had gone wrong. I have  seen  no reason to think that the decision  
would have been different  if the error had not been made. I agree that £125  is fair 
compensation for this delay.
Mrs R does not agree with the banks decision to decline  the increase, and she has set out 
detailed reasons for her view. However, my role is not to decide  whether I would have  lent to 
Ref: DRN45789913her husband  if I had been in the banks position.  The bank is entitled to make up its own 
mind about  whether to lend its money  or not. Rather, my role is only to decide  whether the 
banks decision was affected by its initial error, or whether in reaching  its decision it made  
some other error sufficiently serious that I should conclude that the decision was not within  
the banks reasonable commercial discretion.
A number  of reasons have been  given for the banks decision not to increase its lending to 
Mr R in April 2012. In no particular order, these were:
His businesss turnover had reduced, and appeared to be in financial difficulty,
The building work was still not finished  after two years, and the project  was unlikely 
to complete in time and on budget,
Mr R did not appear  to consider the completion  of the project  to be urgent, and had 
said it would take another  four to six months,
The overdraft had been intended  to fund a new building project, but Mr R seemed to 
be using the overdraft to fund the original project,
The bank  had been asked to bridge funding from a third party, and the third party  
wanted a deed  of postponement, which would compromise the banks security,
There was no recent  valuation on the property  the lending  was to be secured on,
Going by the last valuation,  the bank did not have  sufficient  security  to cover any 
further lending.
(On the other side of the equation, the bank took into account that Mr R had been  a 
customer since 1996 and had a good  record of making repayments  on the overdraft, with no 
missed payments or unauthorised overdraft.)
Mrs R wrote detailed submissions about  the banks reasons. She said that there had been a 
recent valuation of the property, and the value had increased by about £67,000. The 
requested overdraft limit increase of £5,000  was trivial next to this. But the banks concern 
about the reduction in turnover did not take into account. She denied that a time frame for 
completion of the building work had ever been  discussed. The overdraft limit increase was 
not to bridge funding from a third party, but only to tide the business over while Mr R awaited  
an overdue payment  from a customer. The businesss  credit score had been excellent.
I accept that the purpose of the overdraft limit increase  request  was for the reason Mrs R 
has described  to ease  a cashflow problem caused by one of her husbands errant 
customers. That was not Mr Rs fault. But that does not change the fact that at the same 
time, Mr R was also seeking a £155,000 loan from a third party, and his mortgage broker  
was trying to obtain from Barclays a deed  of postponement in the third partys favour. 
Barclays was entitled to take that into account. Ill come back to that.
I have seen evidence  to show that there had indeed been a recent re-valuation  of the 
property, and that this was discussed  in emails  between  the bank and Mrs R dated 
23 March 2012.  The valuation report is dated 8 May 2012 (and the valuation  date is 
3 April 2012), so it might not have been provided  to the bank in time for it to take this into 
account, since the banks two decisions to decline the overdraft limit increase were taken on 
2 and 11 April.  If it was provided  in time for the second decision  (although  I have not seen 
evidence to suggest that it was), then of course Barclays  should  have taken  it into account. 
But I think that point  in Mr Rs favour  would still have  been outweighed  (in Barclays 
judgement if not in Mrs Rs) by the banks  reluctance  to agree to postpone its own charge  to 
the third parties.
Ref: DRN45789914(In the end, the deed of postponement was not agreed to, the third party reduced its loan 
offer to £60,000   roughly  the difference between  the old valuation figure and the new one  
and Barclays agreed to the overdraft limit increase in May, as I describe  below.)
Although Mrs R says that timescales were never discussed, her email of 23 March 2012  
says the project  will be completed  in six to eight months. That is longer than the period the 
bank contemplated  when  it decided to decline further lending  in April.
Mrs R accepted that the overdraft money  (or some  of it) had been used to fund the original 
building project,  but argued that as it was an asset of the business this must be reasonable. 
I can see her point,  but I think the bank was entitled  to decide for itself how much  weight to 
give to this factor, because a lender is entitled to set its own lending  criteria.
When it declined the overdraft limit increase, the bank also referred  Mr Rs account to its 
Business Support  Team  (BST) to be reviewed. Only six weeks  later, in late May 2012, the 
BST gave  Mr R a temporary overdraft  limit increase of £5,000, to help him with cash flow. 
This was initially planned  to last until the end of July, but it was extended  to September.  
Later that year, the £35,000 limit was increased in stages to £50,000,  and in 2013 it was 
incrementally increased further until it was £90,000.  So Barclays did continue  to support 
Mr Rs business with further lending, once it had referred his account  to a specialist team. 
Therefore I dont think its possible to attribute all of the businesss problems to the banks 
refusal in April 2012 to increase the overdraft limit.1 The problem was that Mr Rs customer  
didnt pay him (which eventually resulted in Mr R having to take legal action against him).
I have considered whether the BSTs decision to grant further  lending  in May might  be 
evidence that the banks  contrary  decision in April was wrong. But I dont think  that would be 
a safe inference  to draw, since the BST might have  different lending criteria to the rest of the 
bank. It appears to be a team which specialises in dealing with businesses which the bank 
perceives may be struggling.
Since Mr R ultimately benefited from being referred to the BST (whether he was in fact 
struggling or not), because this resulted  in further lending by the bank, I dont think he was 
prejudiced by the banks decision to refer his accounts to the BST, even if he disagrees that 
this was necessary.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about  the overdraft limit. The complaint  
about the mortgage is not within my jurisdiction.
1 I am aware that Mr and Mrs R are not really suggesting  that this is the case, because they have also 
complained about the mortgage. But as I have explained, I am unable to consider the mortgage.
Ref: DRN45789915Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2019.  However, if we do not hear from them then 
we will assume that they reject it, and they will then not be bound  by it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4578991