K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that IPS Pensions Limited  T/A James Hay Partnership (James  Hay) has 
failed in its administration of his self-invested  personal pension (SIPP)  which  has led to 
delays in the disposal of a commercial  property held within  his plan. Hes also unhappy 
about some  of the charges relating to the plan and wants them clarified. He says hes not 
been made aware of some of the charges. He wants compensation for the delays hes 
experienced. 
background
Mr H took out a SIPP in 2005  and held a commercial property within it. In 2017 he decided to 
sell his business and so dispose  of the property from within the SIPP   which meant that 
James Hay, as trustees, also needed  to approve the deal.  But the process  took some  time to 
complete and it wasnt until 1 August 2018  that the property was sold and the proceeds were 
invested into the SIPP on 10 August 2018.   
Mr H thought James Hay had caused delays to the transaction and so in October 2018 he 
complained about its involvement. He said:
James Hay had caused delays to the sale and was unable to meet any of the 
deadlines imposed upon it to provide information or resolve queries.
One of the bank  accounts within the SIPP,  which was set up to receive payments 
from the lease  of the property to pay off the mortgage, had built up a credit balance.  
But the account wasnt used to pay any of the outstanding SIPP  (rent) charges.
He had to personally pay some  of the costs  involved in the transaction causing 
delays.
James Hay was unable to find a payment  for backdated rent hed made into the bank 
account even  though  it acknowledged the regular  rental  payments  were being paid 
into the same account. And a previous annual report hadnt mentioned any problems 
with the rent payments.  If there had been  any issues they could have been raised 
then.
Because of what had happened he couldnt  see any justification  for James Hays 
annual charge and expected that cost to be re-credited to him.
He hadnt  authorised  a charge for a non-panel solicitor  that was used during the 
property disposal and he queried  two further  property  related charges which  he said 
he wasnt made aware of.
James Hay responded by explaining that the disposal  of a commercial property can be a 
complex matter and therefore it doesnt  give any guarantees about  the time that might  be 
needed to complete sales.  It outlined the purpose of the fees Mr H had questioned  and 
confirmed it had provided him with a tariff of its fees and any changes that had occurred. 
But it did offer Mr H £200 for any administrative delays it caused, in particular the delay in 
reimbursing two of Mr Hs invoices back to the SIPP.   
Mr H remained  unhappy with the outcome. He said he wanted a transparent  explanation of 
the charges, and an acknowledgement  of the problems with James Hays  administration of 
his SIPP  as well as the unacceptable delays  he incurred in obtaining information. So he 
decided to bring his complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and thought Mr Hs complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. He made the following points:
Ref: DRN49181192He didnt think James Hay had made errors  which had significantly altered the time 
taken to complete  the disposal of the property. He identified some errors but felt all 
parties involved had contributed  to them. He thought James Hays  offer of £200 for 
its errors,  including the refunding  of the rental  income was fair and reasonable. 
He thought that James Hay had made Mr H aware of all the associated SIPP 
charges and had applied them  correctly.  He also confirmed the services that James 
Hay were supposed to provide in relation to the charges, and thought theyd been 
carried out and the charges applied where appropriate.
The compensation of £200 was fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the 
complaint.
Mr H didnt agree. He submitted a number of emails which showed exchanges of information 
between James Hay and his representatives. Mr Hs adviser said the emails showed that his 
firm hadnt delayed matters, particularly with regards to the legal work involved. He said 
James Hay had caused the longest delay in not identifying the unpaid rent by monitoring 
an external bank account or confirming which account should be used for the rent. The 
adviser also noted that one of the services it purported to carry out was reviewing bank 
account transactions to ensure compliance  with the regulations and he didnt believe James  
Hay had done that.  
Mr H didnt believe that £200 compensation hed received fully covered the delays hed 
experienced, or the distress  and inconvenience  hed suffered. But the investigator wasnt 
persuaded to change  his view. He said that, over the entire time the sale took to complete, 
he thought James Hay might be culpable for a couple of weeks delay. But he thought  the 
other parties  would  likely, if scrutinised, have caused similar  delays. 
And as he believed his view on the delays  in attributing the rent to the SIPP  had already 
been covered,  he didnt  think  it was fair to ask James Hay to increase its compensation offer.  
But Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint, so its been passed to me for a 
review. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I find Im in 
agreement with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.  
I can see how strongly Mr H feels about  this matter and I have some sympathy for his 
position here. But I think James Hays offer of compensation  is within the range of what  Id 
expect to see for errors such as these. I know this outcome is not the one Mr H wanted to 
hear  so Ill explain my reasoning. 
The bank accounts within the SIPPs
On 17 September  2014 James Hay wrote  to Mr H and confirmed his SIPPs  new terms and 
conditions starting from October 2014. It also gave notice of a change of SIPP  bank account  
 using a new individual  account instead of a pooled one, from 26 January 2015. It was 
confirmed that for a short period after the change any money received into the old account  
will be forwarded to the new account.  So I think James Hay gave sufficient notice that, 
going forward, the new account  would  be the one to be used, because  the letter also said if 
Ref: DRN49181193you make  any electronic payments or pay money into your SIPP  by standing order, you will 
need to use these new bank details.
I think James  Hay was clear about why another bank account had been set up  and gave 
its reasons. But Mr H says the rental income continued to be paid into the original  bank 
account which he said James Hay was aware of. So he couldnt  understand why it wasnt 
aware that rental income  which could be used  to repay the outstanding  amount that was due 
in the SIPP  before the property could  be sold, was in that account. 
James Hay has explained why the credit balance that had built up from payments from the 
property couldnt  be used automatically to pay any outstanding bills. It explained that the old 
account was pooled and not visible to it. It said it relied on information  from the bank about 
the account, which worked when reconciling  the regular rent payments, but it wasnt  possible 
for James Hay to identify  the credit  surplus Mr H was talking about. James Hay said it had 
made it clear  that it was Mr Hs responsibility to move money  from one account  to the other  
as necessary.  
So I dont  think James  Hay would have been  aware  of the balance that had grown  within the 
original bank account  theres no evidence to show it had been told about the transfer  from 
February 2018 until Mr Hs adviser made James Hay aware in June 2018. I note the rent 
was reconciled within  one month at that point.  But, Ive seen  that in July 2018 James  Hay 
again stated that the rent outstanding was still over £20,000  which was clearly an error on 
its part. 
But I dont think James  Hay made  any errors over the missing rent apart  from that 
communication of 25 July 2018. I think it did make Mr H aware of the changeover to the new 
bank account  and I think it was reasonable for it to expect all payments  to be made from the 
new account from then on. Although in reality  Mr H didnt have an outstanding balance of 
rent to be paid, James  Hay wasnt aware  the money  had been held in another account. 
But ultimately the money was paid into the SIPP  and didnt cause  any problem with the sale 
of the property.  And I note that James  Hay hadnt received the contract and transfer  
documents until 21 June 2018, so I dont think the missing rent matter was the sole reason 
for any delay in concluding that sale at that time.  
The charges  applied to the SIPP
Mr H said that he wanted confirmation and clarification about a number of charges related to 
the SIPP, in particular four separate charges that he listed  in his complaint to James Hay.  
Ive seen a copy  of a letter that was sent to Mr H shortly  after he took out the SIPP.  It was 
headed charging  arrangements  and explained the initial and ongoing administration fees 
for the SIPP and the detail of what James  Hay was expected to do in respect of such  fees. 
It also confirmed that in addition to these general fees, additional fees will be incurred for 
any specialist technical or one off advice. 
These additional fees were charged  either  on a time spent basis  or at a fixed fee. This 
letter required Mr Hs signature (it was inserted) to confirm the fees should be deducted  from 
his SIPP  fund. So Im satisfied that Mr H was made aware of the initial and ongoing  SIPP 
fees when he took out the product  and that other fees might apply to any additional 
services required.
Ref: DRN49181194Ive also seen a letter which  was sent to Mr H in September 2014, to take effect from 
October 2014. This letter outlined changes to the SIPP terms and conditions including the 
fees.  A  separate  charges schedule outlined the standard SIPP fees and a tariff of additional 
charges including annual  property charge £480, annual mortgage  charge £150, annual VAT 
charge £100. So I think James Hay did make Mr H aware of the additional fee charges in 
2014 and I think  it was fair for James  Hay to apply them, in line with its terms and conditions, 
at the appropriate times.   
Ive also seen a copy of a letter James Hay sent Mr H on 22 March 2017.  This letter  notified  
clients of further changes to the SIPP fees particularly the increase in the annual  property 
charge. But it also confirmed the increase  to £800  in the charge applied  to a property  
sale when using a non panel solicitor. In Mr Hs case  he chose to use his own solicitor for 
the property sale so this charge was applied to his account. I note the charges were  revised  
again in April 2019. But I think James Hay was entitled to make these variations and I think  it 
gave Mr H sufficient warning of the changes and gave  him the opportunity to transfer to 
another provider,  without  additional penalties, if he wasnt  happy  with the new terms. 
We wouldnt normally interfere with such a commercial decision made by a business, as long 
as it was in-line with its terms and conditions, which I think  it was here.  I can see the revised 
terms and conditions said we may change our terms and conditions from time to time. We 
will give you 30 days notice  of any material change to the terms and conditions 
So I cant safely say James Hay has done  anything wrong there  or misled  Mr H over its 
associated SIPP charges.
Mr H wants James Hays  annual charge to be refunded during this period as he doesnt 
believe the charge  has been  justified. So Ive gone  on to consider what James  Hays terms 
and conditions say about what  do the set-up and annual  administration charges cover  and 
what does the annual property charge cover?. Ive considered the list carefully and, based  
on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that James Hay carried out these administrative tasks in the 
course of the sale of the property. I think therefore that the fees applied  are justified, 
especially as Im satisfied  James Hay did make  Mr H aware of them previously. 
I know Mr Hs adviser  suggested that James  Hay hadnt reviewed bank account 
transactions to ensure compliance with the regulations over the missing rent. But I dont 
agree with that statement, as I believe James Hay did review the bank account that it 
introduced in 2014/2015 and, as it explained  it didnt have visibility of Mr Hs original 
account. So it relied on the statements it received from the bank to reconcile the regular rent 
payments that were  made   which didnt allow it to reconcile Mr Hs ad-hoc rental payment. 
I appreciate Mr H is unhappy about  James Hays overall level of service  and he believes it 
made errors and caused delays. But I havent  seen any persuasive evidence  to show that 
James Hay didnt carry out the work  for which it charged SIPP fees.
And that doesnt  mean James  Hay did anything wrong even if Mr H thinks it should have 
acted in a more efficient and timely way.  
Delays to the disposal  of the property
I can see that James Hay was made aware of the potential removal of the property from 
Mr Hs SIPP  on 6 November 2017. Ive also seen that the proceeds  of the sale were  paid 
into the SIPP on 10 August 2018.  So clearly the transaction did take some  time although I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest  that any guarantees of completion  dates were  given. 
Ref: DRN49181195In general Id expect  such sales involving commercial property to be quite complex with the 
likelihood of them not usually being  completed  quickly. 
And I believe such complications are one reason  that James Hay has issued its own 
property disposal guide which  confirms property disposal through a SIPP,  whether by way 
of sale or transfer  to another  SIPP provider, are complex transactions.  And James Hays  
email to Mr Hs adviser on 20 November 2018 set out a number of issues  that would need to 
be resolved before completion could take place. 
Having said that James Hay did have an obligation  to progress matters in a timely manner 
and complexity wasnt  an adequate reason for it to delay things unnecessarily. So Ive 
carefully considered  the timeline of events from when James Hay was first made  aware of 
the need for the sale, until its completion and the funds were paid back  into the SIPP.  And 
having done so I cant safely say that James Hay caused any significant  delay for which  I 
think it was solely responsible. Ive looked  at the communication  between  the various parties 
from November 2018 to March 2019 and I think the transaction was progressing,  albeit  with 
concerns around  the lease and the new arrangements  (tenants) that would be in place. In 
January 2018  the valuation had been  completed and the comments raised by it were being  
considered. It was at this point, when it was first made aware of the valuation,  that James  
Hay raised the issue of the underpaid rent. 
But by mid-February  2018 Mr Hs adviser confirmed there would be a delay to matters 
because of the number of proposed amendments to the draft agreement. It wasnt  until 
14 March 2018  that James  Hay was advised that the transaction  would proceed on a 
different basis. So I dont think theres any persuasive evidence to show  that James Hay 
caused any unnecessary delays to that point.  
Mr H has provided a number of emails from his adviser which documented its 
communications with James Hay in November and December  2017. He says that 
demonstrated that James  Hay  and not his adviser   caused delays. But Ive considered  
the emails and I think they show ongoing  conversations around the complexities of the 
transactions and the need to resolve  certain legal aspects of the sale.  I dont think  they 
demonstrate that James  Hay wasnt responding to the adviser  or was unable to resolve  
outstanding questions.  
The sale itself completed in less than two months  of the revised disposal form being 
completed which, in the circumstances, doesnt seem unreasonable  to me. And whilst Mr H 
remains of the view that the transaction was drawn out, Im simply not persuaded that James 
Hay was solely responsible for any delays during this time. I think the very nature of such 
complex transactions would suggest  that its difficult to answer queries straight  away, 
especially when legal  matters are involved. Based on what Ive seen, I cant find sufficient 
evidence to show that James Hay caused significant  delays in trying to progress the 
commercial property sale.  
Summary including  the offer
Overall Im satisfied that James Hay didnt cause unnecessary delays in its part of the sale of 
Mr Hs commercial property. I think it did make  Mr H aware of the charges it applied to the 
SIPP especially  when holding a commercial  property.  I also think James Hay applied  the 
charges as set out in its terms and conditions.  I havent seen any evidence to suggest it 
didnt carry out the required  activities in order to justify  the associated  charges. 
Ref: DRN49181196And from what Ive seen I think James Hay did make  Mr H aware of the change to a new 
bank account  and set out how he was required to use that account. This gave James Hay 
visibility of his transactions, going  forward. Although I can understand Mr Hs frustrations that 
a surplus of funds  was sitting in his other SIPP bank account  which  could have been used 
to pay the outstanding rent, I dont  think James Hay was made  aware of that situation  or was 
able to see the available funds in the account itself. 
However, James Hay has accepted that it could  have made quicker  progression  in some  
situations and particularly accepted that it was slow to refund two rental  payments  Mr H had 
made personally. But I think the offer of £200 that James Hay has made in respect of these 
matters is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so Im not going  to tell it to do anything  
further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr Hs complaint against IPS Pensions  Limited  
T/A James  Hay Partnership, in so much  as I think the offer its made is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
So I think IPS Pensions Limited  T/A James  Hay Partnership should  pay Mr H the £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4918119