K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  with the lack of communication  and customer  service from 
Essential Insurance after their life insurance policy was cancelled. Essential Insurance  were 
acting as appointed representatives for EFG Management Limited. For ease of reference Ill 
refer to the business as EFG.
background
Mr and Mrs H arranged a joint life insurance policy through EFG in April 2018. In May 2018  
Mr H disclosed  further health  information which was passed on to the insurer (R). 
R requested further  information from Mr and Mrs Hs doctor  and eventually  cancelled the 
policy and refunded all policy  premiums to the couple. 
Mr and Mrs H feel the customer service  from EFG wasnt good enough. They  complain 
about lack of communication, failure to address their complaint points in full and how EFGs 
customer services  manager handled the call with them after they complained.
After our service got involved, EFG acknowledged  that their service  could have been  better  
and offered £100 compensation to Mr and Mrs H.
Our investigator thought this was fair, but Mr and Mrs H disagreed  and so their complaint 
was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that the offer EFG has made to Mr and Mrs H is fair. Ill explain  why.
R sent an email to EFG on 8 August 2018 informing them that new medical information had 
been received  for Mr H and as a result  cover needed to be deferred until investigations were 
complete. The plan was cancelled and R asked EFG to advise Mr and Mrs H of these 
actions, however they also said that they would send a letter directly to Mr H to explain their 
reasons for deferment of cover. EFG have admitted that the email sent by R doesnt  seem to 
have been recorded on file and was only found  later when  the complaint was investigated. 
EFG spoke to Mr H on 15 August and informed  him of the cancellation of the policy. The call 
notes provided show  that Mr H explained he didnt  know  the policy had been cancelled  and 
that he hadnt received a letter from the insurer.  EFG spoke to R immediately and was able 
to tell Mr H that R needed  further  information from his GP, but they werent given  any more 
details. The call notes suggest  R told EFG they would send out a letter  to Mr H the same day 
explaining this. 
I can see from the call notes that Mr H spoke to EFG again  later the same day. He had 
spoken to R, but they had referred  him back to his GP who was on holiday until the end of 
the month.  EFG advised they would ask R to send their request for information to the GP 
again as it hadnt been received.
Ref: DRN48536482Mr H says he spoke to his adviser at EFG on 16 August and the adviser promised he would 
try and find out what was going on and get back  to him. However, he never  received any 
further information from EFG or R until he complained. 
EFG said they have  no records of a conversation with this particular adviser on the 
16 August. I dont know for certain whether Mr H spoke to this individual  and what  exactly 
was discussed.  However,  I did see a copy  of a follow up email that Mr H sent him a week 
later referring to their call on 16 August. So I think its likely they did speak and its possible 
that an update was promised which didnt happen.
I do understand that the situation Mr and Mrs H found themselves in was stressful. Their 
cover was cancelled  and they werent  given any details about what  the problem was. I can 
appreciate how frustrating that must  have been. However, I dont think  EFG was in a position  
to give Mr and Mrs H the information they required. 
R confirmed to me that they wouldnt give any detailed information  about the GP report and 
what information was needed to EFG for data protection reasons. And in the letter  they 
eventually sent to Mr and Mrs H on 21 August to inform them about the cancellation they 
said:
If you contact us about this decision,  we will give you as much  information as we can. 
However, we may sometimes ask you to speak to your GP. This is because within the 
guidelines laid out by the Association of British  Insurers  and the British  Medical  Association  
there are certain things we cannot  discuss  with you over the phone. 
After Mr H spoke  to EFG on 15 August,  he knew that R wasnt giving  EFG any specific 
information and he had already been referred  back to his GP by the insurer. I think it should 
have been reasonably clear that only the GP or R could give further information at this stage.
I think there were some customer  service  issues here and EFG agree this is the case. 
There was a delay  in informing Mr and Mrs H about the cancellation  of the policy. R sent a 
letter about  the cancellation  on the 8 August which Mr and Mrs H unfortunately didnt 
receive. And although EFG did have knowledge  of the cancellation on 8 August as well, they 
didnt contact Mr H until a week later. So essentially Mr and Mrs H knew about the 
cancellation around a week later than they could have done. However, I cant see that this 
delay caused  any difference to their situation.
Its possible that Mr H was promised  on 16 August  by EFG they would try and find out more 
information and get back to him and even  though  he chased this up by email  on 24 August, 
he didnt receive  a reply  from his adviser. So I agree communication  could have been better. 
However, as explained  above, even if EFG had come back to him sooner, I dont think  they 
could have given  him any more information than they already had and Mr and Mrs H would 
have still found  himself in the same situation. And on 24 August Mr and Mrs H did receive  a 
written response from R.
Ive listened to the call Mr H had with EFGs customer  service  manager and I agree that the 
call could have been handled more professionally and Mr and Mrs Hs complaint could have 
been addressed  better than it was.
So in summary the question  here isnt whether EFG made mistakes or whether their service 
could have been better. This has been agreed and EFG have apologised. What I have to 
Ref: DRN48536483decide is what impact I think these errors had on Mr and Mrs H and what  I consider fair 
compensation.
EFG have offered £100. I understand Mr and Mrs H felt anxious and distressed during this 
time and didnt know where they stood. And I appreciate Mr and Mrs H think EFGs offer 
doesnt reflect the distress the lack of communication caused them. 
However, I think their stress and anxiety would have been  mainly caused by the cancellation 
of the policy  and the lack of detailed information  they were  given by the insurer. EFG isnt 
responsible for the cancellation  and as I explained  above they werent able to give the 
information Mr and Mrs H wanted,  i.e. the specific reasons  of why the policy  was cancelled 
and what information  was required from the GP.
As I agreed  above  there  were several  service  issues, but it isnt my role to punish EFG for 
any mistakes  they made, but to look at the impact their errors had on Mr and Mrs H. And 
although I can see how their errors  caused Mr and Mrs H frustration during an already 
stressful time, I think it wouldnt  be fair to attribute their strong  feelings  of anxiety and 
distress to EFGs actions. So I think in the circumstances the offer that has been made is 
reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I think the offer EFG Management  Limited  has made  is 
reasonable. If it hasnt  been paid already, I request EFG Management Limited to pay Mr and 
Mrs H £100 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4853648