K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax, failed to change  her address 
on its credit  card system  and sent a new card and personal identification number (PIN) to 
her old address. The third party at the address used the card and applied  for other credit in 
her name.
background
Mrs C asked Halifax to change her address in January 2018. In February she asked  Halifax  
for a new credit card and this, together with a new PIN, was sent to her old address. The 
card was used fraudulently and the third party also took out loans and other credit  and store 
cards in Mrs Cs name. 
Halifax accepts that it made a number of mistakes. It didnt change Mrs Cs address on its 
credit card system, when  it updated  its main system. Once it knew about the problem, it 
refunded all the fraudulent transactions. It sent Mrs C a replacement  card but, instead of 
doing this by courier as it agreed to do, it was sent by first class  post with personal details on 
the envelope. Halifax has already paid a total of £734 to cover Mrs Cs financial loss and 
also for the upset it caused.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld, as he thought the 
compensation Halifax had already paid for its mistakes was fair.
Mrs C didnt agree. She thought she should  be awarded a higher amount of compensation.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has already  accepted that it made a series of mistakes. Overall the service it 
provided wasnt up to the standard Mrs C should  have  been able to expect. I accept this has 
been distressing  and caused inconvenience at an already upsetting  time for her. In 
complaints of this type, the role of this service  is to ensure that a customer  affected by any 
mistakes by a financial institution  is put back into the position they would have been in had 
those errors  not been made.  
Before Mrs C bought  her complaint to this service,  Halifax had refunded all the fraudulent  
transactions and made sure that Mrs Cs credit file didnt reflect that activity. As a 
replacement card, for the one used  fraudulently,  didnt arrive in time for a trip overseas, it 
refunded all the charges that Mrs C incurred using  another credit card and covered other  
costs Mrs C incurred, such as calls and re-direction  of post. So Im satisfied that Mrs C 
hasnt incurred any financial  loss.
Halifax has paid Mrs C compensation of £500 for its original mistake  and an additional £150 
for failing to send  a new credit card in time for her holiday. I appreciate Mrs Cs strength of 
feeling about what has happened and that she doesnt think  this is enough. But I find that the 
steps Halifax has taken  to put things  right were reasonable  and I think the amount of 
compensation it paid is fair and reasonable. Its not for me to fine or punish the bank, and we 
dont make awards based on the number of mistakes a financial business  makes. I decide  
whats fair based on the impact of what happened  on Mrs C and the amount  of time needed 
Ref: DRN43040922to resolve this. I think the amount  of £650  already paid by Halifax  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4304092