K820x#14complaint
Mrs E says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, have  taken  responsibility  for the sale.  To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 18 February  2019. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
that this particular policy was not mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
18 March 2019.  But neither side had anything new to add to this case.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have  sent me any new evidence or arguments about this complaint against 
FICL. So having reconsidered the case,  Ive come to the same conclusion  as before  that 
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold  Mrs Es 
complaint about  Financial  Insurance  Company  Limited in this case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48741842COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs E says she was mis-sold  a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. Financial  Insurance  
Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, have taken  responsibility for the sale.  To keep things simple,  
Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
Mrs E bought the policy over the phone in 2000, some time after taking out a store card. It covered 
her card in case  she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Es case.
While I know this will disappoint Mrs E, I dont currently think  this policy was mis-sold   Ill go through  
my reasoning.
When Mrs E first took out her store card, she wouldve been offered PPI. At that point, she didnt take 
it, her card was approved without PPI, and she started using it. So by the time FICL spoke to Mrs E 
on the phone and sold her the policy, she wouldve known she didnt have to take PPI to get approved 
for her card.
There isnt still a recording  of the call, since  it was so long ago. But from what  we know about FICLs 
sales process from the time, the staff member was instructed to give the customer  a choice about 
whether theyd like PPI or not, and to only set it up if they actively chose  it. And Ive not seen any 
evidence that leads me to think FICL didnt follow its normal process  with Mrs E. So I think its most 
likely that FICL made Mrs E aware  she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take 
it at the time.
Its not clear whether FICL gave Mrs E a personalised recommendation to take PPI, or not. The 
requirements are stricter on FICL if they did advise her, so to be fair to Mrs E Ive assumed  that they 
did. That means  FICL had to check the PPI was right for her. And based on what  Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time, it looks like it was. For example, while Mrs E said she had good sick pay, 
the PPI covered her card more comprehensively and paid out on top. And she doesnt seem to have 
had any savings or other protection in place  in case she lost her job. I understand Mrs Es family 
wouldve been  willing to help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when 
needed. Further, this card was Mrs Es sole responsibility,  and the policy meant she wouldnt have  to 
ask anyone else to make  her payments if something went wrong.
Our adjudicator pointed out that Mrs E had a medical condition that wouldnt have been covered by 
the PPI. But FICL questioned  how that condition  affected Mrs E at the time. From  what  shes told us, 
the condition was only relevant in specific  circumstances  and didnt  really affect  her day-to-day life so 
long as she took her regular medication. And she said it had never caused her to take time off work. 
Its worth bearing  in mind that this policy  was there to cover extended time off sick, so it doesnt sound 
like Mrs E wouldve expected that this condition  was likely to cause  her to claim. And she wasnt 
affected by any of the other main exclusions or limitations  of the policy. So overall,  I still think it was 
probably suitable  for her.
Ref: DRN48741843Its possible that the information FICL gave Mrs E about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  The 
question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed her mind. But as I said 
above, it doesnt  look like she was significantly affected  by the policys  main  exclusions or limitations,  
and it wouldve been useful for Mrs E in case she was off sick or lost her job. And since it was a rolling 
monthly policy, she could cancel it without a penalty  if her situation changed or she no longer wanted 
it. So I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put Mrs E off taking out the 
cover.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont plan to uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Please could  Mrs E and FICL send me any more  information  or comments to look at by 18 March  
2019. After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4874184