K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax  (Halifax)  mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. I say this because Ive 
seen a copy of the credit  card application  form which was completed  during the meeting  he 
had in branch  and a printed cross  has been  placed in the box next to the credit card 
repayment insurance  the name  used  by Halifax for PPI. Mr C has signed and dated the 
form.
Whilst the cross has been pre-printed on the form, I think its likely this answer would have 
reflected the conversation he had with Halifax in the meeting. So, on balance, I think  Halifax 
made Mr C aware  that the policy was optional and he chose to take it, knowing he could 
refuse it if he didnt want it.
Mr C has said he was led to believe that the PPI was a standard  part of the agreement  and 
not something that he would have to pay for. Ive thought about what  he has said but Ive 
seen that the charge for the PPI showed as a separate entry on his credit card statements. 
So if Mr C didnt know what this charge was for, or didnt think  he would be paying for this 
cover, I think he would have questioned this with Halifax sooner than he did.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr C so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he seems to have 
had a need for the cover. This policy would  have paid out for up to 12 months if Mr C had 
been unable  to work due to accident,  sickness or if he had lost his job. From what  he has 
told us, Mr C would have received more than three  months, but less than six months  pay, 
from his employer if he was too ill to work and he had no savings or other  means with which 
to meet  his repayments if he wasnt earning. As this policy  would have paid out in addition  to, 
and potentially for longer  than, his sick pay, I think this could have been a useful benefit to 
him.
Its possible  the information Halifax gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it seems 
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong.  It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont  think better  information  about the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover.
Ref: DRN42719722This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr C paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr C back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr C.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4271972