K820x#14complaint
Miss C has complained that Society  of Lloyds (SoL) refused to refund a proportion of the 
premiums she had paid in previous years for her short-term income protection  insurance  
policy after she discovered shed  been significantly over-insured.
background
Miss C was sold the policy by another party in November  2011. The policy was designed to 
pay a monthly benefit of £1,206 for up to twelve months in the event that Miss C was unable 
to work due to accident or sickness.  The policy contained a limitation of benefit clause so 
that the actual  amount of benefit payable under the policy could not exceed  90% of Miss Cs 
average net income in the six months  before she became incapacitated. 
By the time the policy renewed in November 2018, Miss C had increased the insured benefit 
to £1,513 a month.
In 2019, Miss C became temporarily unable to work. She made a claim under the policy. SoL 
accepted the claim. However,  it explained that, due to the limitation  of benefit clause, Miss C 
was entitled to receive no more than £148 a month  in benefit. It adjusted  her insured benefit 
level and premium accordingly, so that she was no longer over-insured.
Miss C complained to SoL. She said she hadnt  known of the limitation of benefit clause. She 
said she had reduced her working hours,  and hence her income, in recent years because  of 
ill-health and had assumed  the policy would pay the full amount of insured benefit. She 
provided evidence  of her earnings over these years. She asked that SoL either pay her the 
full amount or refund her an appropriate  proportion of her premiums.   
SoL agreed  to refund an appropriate proportion of Miss Cs premiums  from the time the 
policy had most recently renewed, in November 2018. However, it wouldnt refund any of her 
premiums before this date. It said that Miss C would have been  provided with the policy 
document which spelt out this limitation.  Furthermore, it said Miss C had made a claim in 
2012 which was reduced due to this clause, so Miss C would have been aware of its 
existence. It said that, despite  this, she had since twice increased  her level of cover.  It said it 
was her responsibility to ensure the cover was appropriate for her circumstances.
Miss C was unhappy at SoLs response. She referred her complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
First, let me explain that although Miss C has suggested the policy  was mis-sold, I havent 
considered the sale of the policy in this decision.  This is because the sale was carried  out 
not by SoL but by another  business.  If Miss C thinks the policy  was mis-sold, she would 
need to complain to that other  business  in the first instance. However,  from what Miss C has 
said, it appears that she doesnt necessarily consider that the policy  was unsuitable  initially  
and that it only became  unsuitable at a later stage when her income decreased  and thus 
was too low to support  the sum for which she was insured. 
Next, let me deal with the amount of benefit  which Miss C was entitled  to receive when she 
made her claim. Although  she was insured  to receive £1,513 a month, the policy states that 
the sum insured should not exceed  net income,  which is described as:
Ref: DRN43747522An amount of 90% of the average monthly  remuneration you receive  after deduction 
of all taxes and other  deductions. The average  is taken over the six months prior to 
the point of time under consideration.
The policy goes on to explain:
any claim payment will be for the lower of the amount you have covered  or the net 
income you can evidence  over the 6 months  immediately prior to your claim
Miss C provided evidence through her accountant to show  that her full net income in the tax 
year 2017/18 was £1,979. From this, SoL calculated that she was entitled to benefit of only 
£148 a month.  Im satisfied that SoL calculated Miss Cs benefit correctly and that this was 
the maximum amount  to which  she was entitled under the terms of the policy.
Miss C has said that SoL failed to make her aware that she was over-insured. However,  Im 
satisfied that Miss C was provided with a copy of the policy document  which explained the 
limitation of benefit  clause, as I have outlined above. I consider the policys  explanation  was 
clear. SoL has also said that Miss C made  a claim in 2012 which  had to be reduced because  
of the clause. Although SoL has provided no evidence relating to this, I have no reason to 
doubt what it says and so this would  have been further reason for Miss C to be aware of the 
clause. It is true that SoL didnt point out the clause in each renewal letter which  was sent to 
Miss C but I dont consider that it was obliged to do this. In the end, I consider it was 
Miss Cs responsibility to ensure her sum assured was appropriate for her circumstances 
and she ought  reasonably  to have realised she was over-insured.
However, regardless of whether Miss C ought  to have  realised  this, Im satisfied  that she 
didnt realise it. I dont believe Miss C would  willingly have  paid for ten times as much cover 
as she was eligible  to receive. I note that although SoL now has an approach where,  if it 
discovers on paying a claim that someone has been  over-insured, it automatically reduces 
the sum assured and premium,  it didnt have this approach when Miss C made  her claim in 
2012. And, as acknowledged above, SoL didnt remind Miss C of the limitation of benefit 
clause at each  renewal which, if it had done,  may have helped her to avoid getting into the 
situation she found herself  in
Our normal approach  to such situations  at this service  is that, even if it is not at fault for the 
over-insurance arising, it is unfair for the insurer to retain the full premium in situations  where  
it has not been running the full risk associated with that premium.  This is regardless of any 
policy clause, such as exists in this policy, stating that retrospective decreases in premium  
are not allowed. SoL has agreed to refund an appropriate proportion  of Miss Cs premium for 
the policy year starting in 2018. However,  I consider that, on a fair and reasonable basis,  it 
should go further than this and refund an appropriate proportion for all the years since she 
first became  over-insured.
I understand that Miss C has already provided  evidence of her past earnings to SoL to 
enable it to calculate the amount due. In response  to this PD, I should like SoL to confirm 
these earnings figures and to provide its calculations on the level of refund to which Miss C 
would be entitled  assuming this provisional  decision were to stand.
I should point  out that because SoL wasnt at fault for Miss C becoming  over-insured, I am 
not intending to ask it to pay interest on the refund to Miss C from the date she paid the 
premiums. However, I consider it should  pay interest  from the date that Miss C asked for a 
Ref: DRN43747523refund and provided it with evidence in support of this, because  it is from this date that I 
consider SoL was at fault.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Miss C responded  to outline the difficulties shed been experiencing in her domestic life at 
the time of her 2012  claim. She said that shed been preoccupied by these  difficulties and so 
hadnt noticed that she was receiving less than her full insured amount of benefit.  She 
explained that although she only made her claim in 2019, her illness had been of gradual  
onset and had caused her to reduce her working  hours, and hence  her earnings, over a 
period of several years.
SoL responded to say it was concerned that I was finding in favour of Miss C even though 
I had acknowledged  it had been  her responsibility to ensure she had the correct  level of 
cover. It was also concerned that my decision didnt take into account the expenses which 
were incurred in administrating a policy, regardless of the level of cover and whether that 
level was correct. With this in mind, it suggested that if the complaint were to be upheld, 
rather than it go through  the burdensome process  of calculating the level of cover Miss C 
needed each year and how much  this would have cost, it should  instead simply pay Miss Cs 
claim at the full amount for which she was insured (£1,513 a month). After deducting the 
amount it had already paid her, it calculated this would mean it needed to pay Miss C 
£2,319, which it said was more than she would  receive in a proportionate refund of 
premiums, as recommended  in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the difficulties Miss C was facing in 2012 and accept that, because of these, she may 
not have noticed that she was receiving less benefit than the amount for which  she was 
insured. I also note that Miss C believes her earnings have been gradually affected over a 
period of years as her health  has gradually  deteriorated. However, there could be a number 
of reasons for why her income has fallen and I havent seen  evidence  to show  that it is all 
due to her declining health.  I therefore  consider it was fair for SoL, when it accepted her 
claim, to base her benefit on her most recent earnings rather  than her earnings from a few 
years ago.
I acknowledge SoLs concern  that it is being  found at fault even though it had been  Miss Cs 
responsibility to ensure  she had the right level of cover. However,  as I hope my provisional 
decision made clear, I was not finding  SoL at fault for the fact that Miss C was over-insured;  
I was finding it at fault in respect of its action once it was made aware of that over-insurance.
I recognise that it would  be burdensome for SoL to calculate the appropriate refund due to 
Miss C but this doesnt mean it wasnt the correct thing for it to do. However,  I accept that its 
alternative suggestion of paying Miss Cs claim at the full insured rate is easier  for it to 
calculate and furthermore the sum of £2,319 which would then be payable to Miss C is more  
than she would receive through a proportionate refund.
In view of the above, I still consider that this complaint should be upheld but I agree with 
SoLs suggestion that, instead of my suggested  redress, it pays  Miss C £2,319 so that she 
effectively receives the full amount  for which she was insured for the period of her claim. 
Ref: DRN43747524I agree  with this suggestion because it is easier  for SoL to work out and it furthermore is 
more beneficial to Miss C.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Society of Lloyds to pay Miss C £2,319.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4374752