K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with the way that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt 
with their claim for damage following leaks from their underground pipes.
background
Mr and Mrs J made  a claim to RSA in June  2017.  They had noticed their carpet in the 
hallway getting  wet and had called  a plumber. He traced the leak and fixed  it but had to dig 
up the floor. It was agreed that RSAs contractors would fill the holes before drying could 
start. The property was declared dry by September  2017. RSA then arranged for work  to 
start which included  relaying the floor and making  good the damage caused by the leak. A 
contractor started doing this in November 2017 but, after removing the downstairs toilet,  left 
the job. Mr and Mrs J had to chase the loss adjusters to find out that was happening.
Work started again, with new contractors, in late January 2018,  but the work was done so 
poorly that M and Mrs J had to ask for the contractors to be removed from the job. 
Mr and Mrs J advised that the quality of the re-laid floor was so poor that it had to be laid in 
all four times. And each time Mr and Mrs J and their family had limited access to the 
downstairs rooms. They complained that they had had to chase up the contractors and the 
loss adjusters multiple times and just didnt know what was happening. They further advised 
that they had been without a downstairs toilet for several months and that two radiators were 
removed which couldnt be put back until the floor was finally laid properly. They further said 
that a large waste bag had been  left on their drive all this time and that it had split. 
RSA issued a final response letter on 27 March 2018. It apologised for the delays and the 
poor work and paid Mr and Mrs J compensation of £350, which I understand has been  paid  
(without prejudice to the result of their complaint.).
On referral to this service,  our investigator  thought that the compensation paid wasnt 
sufficient and that RSA should increase it to £800 (ie make a further  payment  of £450). RSA 
objected to this but suggested increasing it to £600.
Mr and Mrs J werent  happy with the proposed  compensation as they felt it didnt reflect the 
scale of the problems caused to them and the efforts made by both of them to try and 
resolve matters. They pointed out that the repairs  had been done to the floor but they were 
still not happy with it.
RSA has pointed out that it has since then dealt with two further complaints raised by 
Mr and Mrs J about subsequent matters and offered them  further compensation.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
scope of this decision
I should advise  that this decision  concerns matters  dealt  with by RSA up until its final 
response letter of 27 March 2018.  Whilst I appreciate that further  issues have arisen  since  
Ref: DRN48792142then, they havent been  considered by us in the course of dealing with this complaint. So I 
wont be considering  those further  issues in this decision.
delays
There were clear delays in getting  the work under way. The claim was reported in June 2017 
but repairs didnt  start until November. The trenches dug during the trace and access  works 
had to be filled. RSA says that Mr and Mrs Js plumber was going to do this. But in fact their 
plumber was only instructed to do the trace and access  work  and the loss adjusters had said 
that RSAs contractors would do the filling in. There was a suggestion that Mr and Mrs Js 
plumber would give an estimate for this work,  but this was only for costing. I think the 
confusion over this added to the delay as drying  out could only start after this work was 
done. I further understand that it wasnt possible to get contractors started straight away  
after the drying out had been completed. But given that Mr and Mrs Js plumber was only 
instructed to do the trace and access work,  I do think that five months to start work was 
excessive.
There were further delays caused,  I understand, because that contractor I understand left 
the job in late November. Works couldnt restart until late January 2018. And I note that it 
took a month to put in an instruction for the new contractors. Further delays were caused by 
the poor workmanship which Ill address below.
poor workmanship
The main  issue here was the floor.  And I take the fact that RSA agreed  to lay the floor four 
times to be a clear  indication that the work  was done  poorly, rather  than just dissatisfaction  
on Mr and Mrs Js part with the way it looked. There was a knock  on effect here. 
Mr and Mrs J had the inconvenience, with a young family of having to clear  the area and 
walk on planking while  it was drying.  Also the floor laying caused a lot of dust. This was 
something Mr and Mrs J had to put up with initially  as a result of the insurance claim. But 
having to do that on three  further occasions added significantly, I think,  to the distress and 
inconvenience they had to suffer. Also having  to redo the works added  to and caused further 
delays and the work wasnt essentially  completed  (bar snagging)  until April 2018.
Further inconvenience  was caused  by the tiling being done  poorly  (and having to be redone)  
in the downstairs toilet and by the skirting having  I be redone.  I think these were more than 
just snagging  issues.
downstairs toilet
The toilet  was taken  out as part of the initial work.  And again  as part of an insurance claim, 
Mr and Mrs J would  have had to put up with this. The fact that it was gone for several  
months was a result of the first contractor leaving the job. And it wasnt  able to be put back  
until the floor had been re-laid satisfactorily (which only occurred on the fourth attempt).  
I note also that when it was removed it wasnt properly capped off at first, leading to a smell 
of sewage over the 2017 Christmas period until it could  be dealt with properly. So again 
Mr and Mrs J suffered  inconvenience over and above that caused by the original claim
having to chase up
Mr and Mrs J, had to do a lot of chasing, over a period of several months, to find out what  
was happening.  They had to chase up when contractors were attending. And obviously  they 
Ref: DRN48792143had to report the poor workmanship  and the issues with the toilet.  Im satisfied that this 
added to the inconvenience and stress  caused to Mr and Mrs J.
radiators
Mr and Mrs J say they were left without two radiators all the time the floor had to keep being  
re-laid. RSA point out that this wasnt reported  to it. It says it has since  questioned the 
contractors who said the radiators would have been  put back. Mr and Mrs J insist  that they 
told the loss adjusters and the contractors  at the time.  I think its fair to accept  Mr and Mrs Js 
account of this. I cant say how much  the loss of those two radiators affected  the property, as 
I havent seen  evidence that Mr and Mrs J had to use supplemental heating. But I think  it fair 
to say that this caused more unnecessary inconvenience.
waste bag
Mr and Mrs J say that a large  waste bag was kept on their drive for the duration of the work. 
They say that it had split causing some concrete to fall out and set on the drive. They  have 
however told us that this has now been  cleared up. RSA again says this wasnt  drawn to its 
attention, but says it was agreed  that the waste bag would be left there until the end of the 
job. In comparison to the other inconveniences this was a minor issue.  Although  I can 
appreciate the irritation caused to Mr and Mrs J because of this. I think  leaving the bag was 
unavoidable but it was another knock on effect  of the delays caused by the work.
compensation
Our investigator proposed that RSA pay a further  £450 compensation on top of the £350  
already paid. As Ive said this decision concerns matters that arose  up until the final 
response letter of March 2018. I havent taken account of any other issues  which may have 
arisen since then. 
In all I think Mr and Mrs J were caused  a substantial degree of inconvenience and distress  
over a number of months. But the overall  compensation  proposed  by our investigator for this 
is £800. Taking into account  the limits on this decision that Ive pointed  out, I think that such 
a payment is fair and reasonable. Ive also taken into account the sort of compensation 
awards we have made in similar cases.
Ive also considered RSAs response. And whilst I take its point that Mr and Mrs J will have 
been caused a lot of inconvenience because of the claim  itself,  I do think the issues Ive 
highlighted have  added significantly  to that. So I will make an award  for a further £450.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to pay to 
Mr and Mrs J a further £450 compensation (on top of the £350 already paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 August 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN4879214