K821x#15complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how National House-Building Council (NHBC) handled his claim 
under his building warranty. 
background
Mr A bought a new-build property in March  2017 which  came  with a NHBC warranty.  Under 
the warranty, any claims made within the first two years would be dealt with by the developer 
 who Ill call C. NHBC would be responsible for claims from year three onwards, or if C 
failed to put things right in the first two years. The warranty runs for 10 years. 
Mr A made a claim in November 2017.  NHBC decided to carry out its resolution service and 
arranged for an assessment of the defects  Mr A had reported. NHBCs resolution report  was 
issued in September 2018, asking C to complete  repairs by 26 October  2018.
Mr A complained as the repairs hadnt  been  completed by the deadline and he felt that 
NHBC should have  stepped in at that point to assume Cs responsibilities. He was also 
unhappy with the period of time hed waited so far and said he didnt always  receive a 
response when  he contacted NHBC.
NHBC said that claims within  the first two years of the warranty were for C to deal with and 
that the resolution service was offered at NHBCs own discretion. NHBC said it didnt 
assume Cs responsibilities when  the deadline passed because C asked for an extension 
and queried some of the items on the resolution report. NHBC felt that C was willing to 
complete the repair so it didnt need to do anything more.  
By the time of its final response to Mr As complaint, NHBC had arranged  a further resolution 
report with an updated deadline of 31 January 2019. NHBC accepted there  had been  some 
unnecessary delays and that it could have responded quicker on some occasions   so it 
offered Mr A £450  compensation. 
Mr A remained unhappy  and asked this service  to step in for an independent review. He 
added a concern  about some items that had been  changed on the new resolution report. Our 
investigator upheld  the complaint and said NHBC should have assumed Cs responsibilities 
when the deadline for the first resolution  report expired. She also said that the compensation 
offered so far was fair.
NHBC agreed to take over Cs responsibilities,  but it queried whether this should be as per 
the first resolution report or the second  one. It said the second one was issued because C 
told it that Mr A had already received a cash settlement for some  items. It was concerned 
that Mr A might receive payment twice.
Our investigator asked  Mr A about  this and he said hed received reimbursement for some 
repair work that was done privately  carpet  and paint work. But he said this was before the 
resolution reports.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im upholding this complaint and Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN43842312what I can consider
Id like to explain what I can and cant look at as part of my decision.  This service can only 
consider complaints about certain things a financial business does. Of relevance to this 
complaint, that includes dealing  with insurance claims. With an NHBC warranty,  any claims 
raised within the first two years are considered under  section two of the warranty.  As part of 
this, NHBC carried  out its resolution service  and issued a resolution  report  which set out 
what C needs to repair and by when. But this part of NHBCs role isnt part of the insurance it 
provides under the warranty. So any complaint about it isnt something I can look into.
Mr A has mentioned concerns about  the way C and NHBC handled his claim from the start, 
as well as expressing  concerns  with the details  of the resolution  report.  I dont know whether 
these concerns are valid, but even if I did, I wouldnt be able to say so as this service  has no 
power to investigate NHBCs actions at that stage. I appreciate that Mr A may be 
disappointed by this but I can only make  decisions on matters I have the powers  to do so. 
Additionally, some of Mr As concerns arose  after NHBCs final response letter  dated 11 
December 2018.  So NHBC  hasnt had the chance  to address these points before this 
service stepped in to review Mr As complaint. If Mr A would like these issues investigated, 
hed need to raise  it with NHBC in the first instance  and allow it to respond before this 
service has the power to step in. 
should NHBC assume Cs responsibility?  
Complaints about  claims made  within the first two years  of the warranty only come under this 
services remit  once  the following has happened:
a resolution report has been completed
the report has directed the builder or developer to do something by a deadline
the builder/developer has failed to complete  the works by the deadline, or is 
insolvent.
NHBC carried out its resolution service and issued its first resolution  report  in September  
2018, setting out the deadline  for C to complete the repairs  by. C didnt complete the repairs  
by this deadline so Im satisfied this complaint comes under our remit. The insurance  
element under the first two years of the policy kicks in when the deadline passed, so from 
that point NHBC was effectively dealing with Mr As insurance claim  it was no longer acting 
as a facilitator between  Mr A and C but as Mr As insurer. So NHBC  had a duty to treat Mr A 
fairly. I dont  think it did and I think it shouldve stepped in at this point to assume Cs 
responsibilities.
NHBC says it was asked by C for more time and that C queried  some of the items set out in 
the first resolution report. C also mentioned that the contractor it instructed made contact 
with Mr A proposing that the repairs  start on the week  commencing 19 November 2018. 
I can appreciate why NHBC thinks a request by C for an extension  shouldnt deem it 
necessary for it to step in and assume  Cs responsibilities. Sometimes, a request for an 
extension would be reasonable. However,  its apparent here that C hadnt even started  the 
repair work and the proposed start date was several weeks  after the original deadline. So 
there was no realistic prospect of the repairs being completed on time. Additionally,  C waited 
Ref: DRN43842313until the deadline date to contact NHBC to request an extension and query the resolution 
report. 
I think at this point, NHBC should  have  decided to step in and assume Cs responsibilities.  
Mr As claim had almost reached a year and C doesnt seem to have been proactive enough 
in trying to complete the repairs by the deadline.  So I think  NHBC acted unfairly when it 
arranged a second resolution  report instead of deciding to settle the claim itself in line with 
the warranty.
Im pleased to see that NHBC has now agreed to take over Cs responsibilities under the 
terms of the warranty. Im nevertheless aware  of the potential double  compensation if Mr A 
has already received payment for some of the work. I note what  Mr A has said in this respect 
and Ive no reason  to doubt it  I havent seen anything from NHBC detailing  precisely  what  
payments Mr A received from C and what those  payments were  for. So I make  it clear here 
that the fair resolution in my opinion is for NHBC to take over Cs responsibilities in respect 
of the items detailed  in the first resolution report,  less any issues  that C has already dealt 
with. 
compensation
As a result of NHBCs failing, Mr A has experienced a delay in having his home  repaired.  
Hes also had to live in a new-build home  that has a number of defects and hes been in 
touch with NHBC several times to resolve these issues.  This caused him some  distress and 
inconvenience.
NHBC has offered Mr A £450 compensation. This is within  the region of what  I would have 
asked it to pay for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mr A by not agreeing to assume 
Cs responsibilities earlier. So I think this amount is fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint.
To put things right, I require National  House-Building Council to:
assume Cs responsibilities and settle Mr As claim in line with the terms of the 
warranty  Mr A shouldnt receive double  benefit,  so National House-Building Council 
can deduct the total of any cash settlement Mr A has already been paid in relation to 
this claim
if it hasnt done  so already, pay Mr A £450 compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4384231