K821x#15complaint
Mr Is complaint is that he was advised  by an appointed representative  (AR) of Quilter 
Financial Limited (the firm) to switch a personal pension to a self invested  personal pension 
(SIPP) for the purpose of investing in unquoted securities.  These shares were issued by a 
company I will call company A.  
Until recently the firm was known as Caerus.   Any original references to Caerus  have been 
retained.  
 
background
In late 2012 Mr I switched  a personal pension to a SIPP.  A short time afterwards an 
investment was made in the unquoted shares issued by company A.  
The complaint was looked at by an investigator.  His conclusion was that this was a 
complaint that we can look at and that it should  be upheld. 
The firm did not agree.  It made the following main points:
It has no knowledge  of either  the pension switch or the share  purchase.
At various times around  the time of the advice the AR had been  suspended which  
means he was not authorised to give investment advice.
Unquoted  shares were  not an investment that the AR was authorised  to give advice on.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2019  setting  out why I thought  the complaint 
was one that we can look at and that it should  be upheld.   In this I said:
I will first consider whether this is a complaint that this service can look at.  I will do this in 
three stages:
What is the complaint being made?
What regulated  activities does it concern?
Is the firm responsible  for the actions  of its AR?
Mr I has described  his complaint in the following terms:  
I was sold the idea of transferring my pension  account into a property fund by [the AR], who 
was authorised by Caerus Financial. I have since found out I was one of many who were 
miss led into investing  in this fund.  I had no idea of the risks involved, the wordings of the 
fund or high charges involved.
I feel that [the AR] did not correctly explain the risks involved. He led me to believe that this 
property investment was safer than the stock market. I have been horrified to find out that 
my pension has been locked away in a high-risk fund,  currently appears to have no value 
and is inaccessible. This type of fund certainly does not match  my attitude to risk and does 
not match the fund as it was sold to me and explained in the little information I was given.  I 
would not have considered the investment had the risk been  correctly explained, the fact that 
my pension is inaccessible  or that no early transfer out option was available.
[the AR] also did not explain  that I would also have to pay fees to a pensions  administration 
company who 'manage  the fund'.
Ref: DRN48613482I think it is clear  from the above that Mr I did not appreciate the nature of the transaction he 
entered into.  He appears to have confused the SIPP with a fund.  However,  it is clear  he 
thinks he was advised to switch his personal pension to the SIPP  and make the investment 
in the unquoted security  which he describes as a property fund.  
Putting aside Mr Is confusion, I am satisfied that the complaint made by Mr I is about  advice 
to switch a personal  pension  to a SIPP for the purpose of investing in an unquoted security.   
The regulated activities
Both the personal  pension and the SIPP are specified investments as per article 81 of the 
Regulated Activities  Order 2001 (RAO).   The shares purchased  are (unlisted) securities  
which are specified  investments  under  article  76 of the RAO. So the regulated  activity  being 
complained about is regulated investment advice as per article 53 of the RAO.
There is very little documentary evidence available to establish exactly what  went on.  
Before considering what if any responsibility that the firm has, I will first make findings  about 
what actually happened.
On 13 September  2012 the AR forwarded an email  that he had received from a director  of 
company A.  Attached to the email  were two documents about  company A.  These  were  a 
summary document and a more detailed  36 page  description of the company and its 
activities.
The original  email to the AR concluded with the following:
We would  be delighted to meet up with any of the people that you are talking to if they would  
like to hear it from the horses  mouth!
On 27 September  2012 the AR forwarded an email  to Mr I.  This email had also been 
originally sent to the AR by a director of company A.
The email  was a positive message about the prospects of company A.  It had secured a 
development site within  the M25 and was confident  of obtaining planning permission.  
Investors could expect to see their investment double in value  once planning permission was 
obtained.  The AR was asked to confirm interest as soon as possible.
Whilst the evidence  is limited my conclusion  from the above  emails is that the AR was 
involved in procuring investors to buy shares in company A.  Whilst it was possible that this 
process involved the giving of advice  there  is no evidence that confirms this to be the case.  
The firm have not been able to provide a statement from the adviser  and so we do not have 
his version of events.   We have  Mr Is version  of events but this is not particularly helpful in 
terms of the detail of what happened.
However, the purchase of shares  in company A was only part of the transaction.   In order  to bring  
about the purchase of the shares in company A, it was necessary for Mr I to switch  a personal 
pension to a SIPP.  In respect  of the SIPP transaction there is some  documentary evidence.
A SIPP application form was completed by Mr I on 10 September  2012.  This lists the AR as 
the adviser and also records  that he would receive payment of 0.75% of the fund value a year.
Ref: DRN48613483The AR was also listed by the ceding  pension scheme as Mr Is adviser.   So Mr I had an 
existing adviser relationship with the AR.
I think it is clear  from the way in which Mr I has expressed his complaint that he didnt really 
understand the transaction and what he was buying.   It would seem unlikely that such an 
inexperienced investor  would  have been able to find a SIPP which  would enable him to 
invest in unquoted securities without  advice.  This would  also appear to be the entirety of Mr 
Is pension provision.  I would consider it unlikely, given the importance of this pension that 
Mr I would have made  the decision to switch his personal pension  to a SIPP without being 
advised to do so.  I accept  that there  is very little evidence to back  up Mr Is version  of 
events but there is documentary evidence to suggest that advice was given on the SIPP.   
I think it is clear  from the email exchanges  referred  to above that the AR knew  what the 
intended investments  to be held within the SIPP were.
Where an adviser recommends a SIPP consideration must be given, if known, to the 
investment intended  to be held within the SIPP. This has been made clear in a number of 
statements made by the FCA.  For example on January 2013 the FCA said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid unregulated 
investments (some which may be in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
Financial advisers using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances  of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate  out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated  elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
Whilst this was issued  after the advice was given to Mr I, I consider it was not a new 
requirement of the FCA but rather a reminder  of what the rules  in force at the time of the 
advice were.  There were no material changes to any of the FCAs rules  governing  
investment advice in the intervening period.   
Therefore, when giving  the advice to transfer  the personal pension to the SIPP, the adviser 
should have considered the investments to be held within the SIPP.   However, to do so would 
require the AR to know what the intended  investments to be held within  the SIPP  were.
So in practical terms it is not important whether,  in addition to the advice to switch  to the 
SIPP, Mr I was advised to make the investment  in company A.  The  key thing would be 
Ref: DRN48613484whether the adviser knew what the investment intended to be held within  the SIPP was.  
I am satisfied from the above exchange of emails that the adviser knew what  the intended 
investment was  I consider that the whole purpose  of the switch to the SIPP was to enable  
the investment  in company A shares to go ahead. 
So my provisional conclusion is that Mr I received regulated investment advice as per article 
53 of the RAO to switch a personal pension to a SIPP.  When giving this advice  the AR knew  
that the investment intended  to be held within the SIPP was unlisted  shares  in company A.
Is the firm responsible for the advice  given  by the AR?
The guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says 
complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect  of activities  for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for 
which the firmhas  accepted responsibility)". 
So a principal is answerable for complaints about the acts or omissions of its appointed 
representative in relation  to the business  it has accepted responsibility for.
Appointed representatives are not employees of the principal firm.  They  are independent  
and might not act only for the principal firm.  Sometimes those who operate  as appointed 
representatives operate other businesses also.   So sometimes it is clear that a person who 
happens to be an appointed representative does something on his own account (or in some  
other capacity) rather than as business  for the principal.
So in the case  of Emmanuel v DBS Management Plc [1999] Lloyds Re P.N 593 a principal 
(under the s.44 Financial  Services Act 1986) was held not to be liable for activities that were  
held to be outside the scope of the business the principal had accepted  responsibility for.  In 
that case the claimant had been advised to subscribe for shares  in and lend money  to the 
appointed representative itself. 
Another example  is in the case of Frederick  v Positive Solutions  [2018] EWCA Civ 431.  That  
case concerns agency rather  than s.39 appointed representative issues. Nevertheless  the 
case gives an example  of a person having  a connection with a regulated  business and doing  
something on their own account.  In  that case the person who was an agent for 
Positive Solutions (for some purposes)  was held to be engaging in a recognisably 
independent business of his own  a property  investment scheme.  
In this case there is no evidence that the AR operated a separate  unregulated business, 
distinct from his AR business.   Advice to switch a personal pension  to a SIPP  is advice that 
would routinely be given by a financial adviser.   
what does accepted responsibility mean here?
It is important  to keep in mind here that I am talking about appointed representatives acting  
in their capacity as appointed representatives.  So I am discussing a creation of statute not 
common law agency.
Ref: DRN48613485At the relevant time s.39 of FSMA said:
 
"(1) If a person (other  than an authorised person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which  
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed , and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  his 
principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility."  (my emphasis)
So under s.39 the principal (Caerus) is required to accept  responsibly for that business 
which is a reference  back to business of a prescribed description.
However the case of Anderson v Sense  Network  [2018] EWHC 2834 and [2019]  EWCA Civ 
1395 make  clear that the words  part of in s.39 allow a principal firm to accept responsibility 
for only part of the generic business of a prescribed  description.   I will first deal with the 
meaning prescribed business and before dealing with the part of point.  
what does prescribed mean here?
The interpretation section,  s. 417 FSMA, says that where not otherwise defined,  prescribed 
means prescribed in regulations  made  by the Treasury.  Such regulations  have been  made   
the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives)  Regulations 2001 
(as amended from time to time).  Regulation 2 covers descriptions of business  for which  
appointed representatives are exempt.  
what was prescribed  business at the relevant time?
The advice in this case was in September/October  2012.  At that time the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives)  Regulations 2001 said:
2. Descriptions of business for which appointed representatives  are exempt

(a)an activity  of the kind specified by article 25 [of the RAO] (arranging deals in 
investments) where the arrangements are for or with a view to transactions relating to 
securities or relevant  investment.
(b)
(c)an activity  of the kind specified by article 53 of that Order (advising on investments)
(d)an activity  of the kind specified by article 64 of that Order (agreeing to carry on 
activities), so far as relevant to an activity  falling  within subsection(a) [or] (c) 
is prescribed  for the purposes of subsection (1)(a)(i) of section 39 of the Act (exemption  of 
appointed representatives).
So prescribed business is business which is defined at a high level.   It means business in 
the sense of certain regulated activities.  It does  not mean business in any greater level or 
particularity.  So it does  not mean  business in the sense of an individual transaction.
Ref: DRN48613486So in this case it means, say, advising on investments  (under article  53 of the RAO).  It does 
not mean advising Mr I on particular investments. 
What was the prescribed business Caerus  accepted responsibility for in this case?
The AR agreement  says:
The Firm hereby  appoints  the Representative as its appointed  representative, subject to the 
terms of this Agreement. The Firm authorises  the Representative to conduct  the Relevant  
Activities.
Relevant Activities are defined and included the following:   
Advising on investments (article 53 RAO)
Arranging (bringing  about) deals  in investments (article 25 of RAO)
Making arrangements  with a view to transactions in investments
A letter of appointment was also signed by the AR and this said the following:
You will note that you hold CF30 Customer Function  on the FSA register  and your 
permissions with PFA are as follows:-
Agreeing  to carry out a regulated activity
Arranging and advising on non investment insurance contracts
Arranging (bringing  about) deals  in investments
Making arrangements  with a view to transactions in investments
Advising on investments (in accordance with PFA's  compliance requirements)
This authorisation does not permit  you to give advice in any of the following areas:
Advising on regulated mortgage contracts
Arranging (bringing  about) regulated mortgage  contracts
Making arrangements  with a view to regulated mortgage contracts
Equity Release  including  Lifetime  Mortgages  & Home Reversion Plans
Long Term Care
Occupational Pension Transfers
(PFA was the then trading name  of Caerus.)
So the AR agreement and the accompanying letter only sets out the regulated activities that 
the AR can carry out.  However, the AR agreement  specifically refers to the firms  
compliance manual  saying:
The Representative shall comply with the provisions  of the compliance manual.  
In terms of restrictions on the activities of the AR the key feature of the compliance manual is 
that it requires  100%  pre approval  of all advice  given by an AR.  So the advice to switch  Mr 
Is personal pension  to a SIPP and any advice  to invest in the shares of company A should 
have been submitted to the firm for checking.   The firm have  no knowledge of either the 
pension switch or the purchase of the shares  in company A. 
Ref: DRN48613487my view  about  the restrictions in the appointed  representative agreement in this case:
If the adviser  breached the requirements set out in the Compliance Manual  relating to the 
process for giving investment advice, in my view this does not mean the firm is not 
responsible for the advice given.
In the Court  of Appeal in Anderson v Sense Network  [2019] EWCA1395  the court made it 
clear that principals can limit the business  it accepts  responsibility for.  However,  it also drew 
a distinction between what and how.  A principal can restrict statutory  responsibility  for 
what business it accepts  responsibility for but not for how that business is done.   
At para 40 the judge  wrote: 
A further  submission madewas that, even if statutory responsibility  may be restricted  to 
only part of a business, liability cannot be excluded by reference to a failure properly to 
conduct that business. I agree with that
The AR was authorised to give the SIPP advice.  The requirement  to have advice submitted 
to the firm for pre-approval was in my view a requirement as to how  the authorised  advice 
should be given.   Because of this the failure  to obtain pre approval does not mean that the 
firm isnt responsible for the advice.  The SIPP advice was authorised  and the failure to 
obtain pre approval  was a failure  to properly carry out that business.  
The firm has also described the lack of pre approval  as a procedural  failing.  In an email  to 
this service of 14 December 2017 it wrote:
The investment was done outside  of [the ARs] authority because our procedures  were not 
followed, no approval was given as required, and no suitability letter was provided to the client.
The suspension of the AR by the firm
At various points around the time advice was given the AR was suspended  by the firm.  The 
firm wrote to the AR and told it that it was unable to carry out any regulated  activities in the 
period of suspension.  In a letter of 1 August  2012  the firm wrote:
 As a result of this suspension you are not permitted to advise any clients, or conduct  
any new business. Any business that is currently  with PFA for pre-approval will be 
checked accordingly and should be dealt with as per PFA processes and procedures.
The suspension was lifted on 6 September 2012.  On 24 September  2012 the firm wrote to 
the AR to suspend  him again.  It wrote:
We note that no new business has been  submitted during  the last 12 months, however  
we have received confirmation  from providers  of some  large  commission  receipts for 
business that does not appear to have been  submitted to PFA for pre-approval, in 
accordance with our normal procedures. This matter will be investigated separately,  and 
you will be contacted  by our Compliance  & Policy team  in due course.
The suspension of your authorisation will remain until the outcome of any such 
investigation is concluded.
Ref: DRN48613488Please note that you are not authorised  to conduct any new business  with 
immediate effect.
(bold in original)
The firm terminated the appointment of the AR on 13 December 2012.
It seems  likely that advice about  the SIPP would have been  given at around the time the 
application form was completed.   The application form was completed  on 10 September 
2012.  This is the date on which Mr I said the advice had been given when he completed  this 
services complaint form.  So I consider it reasonable to assume that this is the date that the 
advice was given.   This  would be outside the period when the AR was suspended and so I 
dont think the issue of his suspension is relevant.
my provisional decision  on jurisdiction
My provisional decision is that this is a complaint that this service can look at.
the merits of the complaint
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments  to decide what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of this complaint.
Suitability as set out in COBS 9.2 has three components:
A recommended transaction:
Must meet the consumers  investment objectives
Is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent with his 
investment objectives
is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the 
risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
Nothing was recorded at the time about  Mr Is attitude to risk.  He has said subsequently that 
he was told that the investment was a low risk one.  If  this is the case  there was clearly  a 
mismatch between the risk of the SIPP/unquoted security and what Mr I now says he 
understood the risk to be.  I dont think it is arguable that for an investor to put the entirety  of 
their pension fund into a single unlisted  security is an extremely high risk or even speculative 
approach.  
I have looked  at the pension that was switched  to the SIPP.   The investments sold were  all 
equity funds and included a range of high risk and esoteric funds.  All of the funds were  
equity based and the portfolio contained  no lower risk investments such as cash  or bonds.  
The existing fund would therefore, in my view, be generally considered  to be a high risk one.
Having said that, to go from a fairly diverse  range of equity  funds,  of which  some  were high 
risk, to a single high risk unquoted security  still represents a very significant  increase in the 
level of risk Mr I was taking with his pension.   Whilst it is uncertain what Mr Is attitude to risk 
was at the time of the advice there  is nothing to suggest that he was prepared to significantly 
increase the level of risk he was taking with his pension.
Ref: DRN48613489Even if Mr I was prepared to take such a high level of risk it was clearly not suitable for his 
circumstances.  This  was the entirety of his pension fund.  An  equity investment in a small 
start up company is an extremely risky investment. Whilst if successful the returns could be 
substantial there was a very real possibility that Mr I could  lose the entirety  of his pension  
fund.  I am satisfied that Mr I was not in a position  to take such a level of risk with his 
pension.  Any advice  would  therefore be unsuitable.   
As discussed earlier, based on the way that Mr I has framed  his complaint I am not 
persuaded that he really understood the transaction  and the attendant risks.
So the advice  given to Mr I was in my view unsuitable because:
It exceeded  the level of risk he was prepared to take
It was not consistent with his financial circumstances
He did not have the knowledge and experience to understand the level of risk he was 
taking
I am also satisfied that losing the entirety  of his pension savings would have  been  upsetting  
for Mr I.  I consider  that £500 would  be a suitable sum to compensate him for this.
how things  should be put right
The firm should, as far as possible, put Mr I into the position he would now be in but for the 
unsuitable advice  to transfer his personal  pension to a SIPP  to invest in the shares of 
company A.  
I am not persuaded that a SIPP was, in principle,  a suitable investment for Mr I.  His pension 
fund was of a size generally considered to be too small for a SIPP.  In addition  the charges 
were significantly  higher than his original scheme.   The original pension fund had access to 
a wide range of funds  and I am not persuaded that Mr I the needed access  to an even wider 
range of investments.
 
However, I dont think that reinstatement  of Mr Is original personal  pension would be 
appropriate.  As discussed above  the range  of investments in Mr Is pension included  a 
number of high risk and esoteric funds.  I dont think this was a portfolio that could 
reasonably be described as a buy and hold one. It seems more likely than not that if the 
switch had not taken place substantial  changes would  have been  made  to the portfolio.   
Redress based on reinstatement of the original fund would therefore be inappropriate.  
My view on how Mr I should be compensated is set out below.
The firm should carry out the following steps:  
1. Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Is original personal pension  based on the 
performance of the FTSE ALL Share Index (on a total return basis).  This broadly reflects a 
relatively high risk, all equity benchmark  reflective  of the type of investments held in the 
pension fund.  This calculation should be carried out from the date the investments in the 
personal pension  were liquidated to the date of decision.    
2. Obtain the notional transfer value of Mr Ss SIPP at the date of my final decision.
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take 
Ref: DRN486134810charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be 
a negative figure.  As there is no market  value for the shares of company A they should be 
assumed to have  zero value.
Alternatively the firm should take ownership of the illiquid shares  by paying a commercial  
value acceptable  to the SIPP operator.   This  value should then be used to calculate 2.  If this 
is possible this should be done.  This would then enable the SIPP  to be closed. 
3. Pay an amount into the SIPP  so that the value increases from 2 to 1.  This payment 
should take account of any available tax relief and the effect of charges.
If it is unable  to pay the total amount  into Mr Is SIPP,  the firm should pay the compensation 
as a cash sum to Mr I. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it wouldve provided a 
taxable income. So the total amount should  be reduced to notionally  allow  for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Is marginal rate of tax at retirement.  
For example, if Mr I is a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance  would 
equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent  to the current  basic rate of tax. However,  
if Mr I would have been able to take a tax free lump sum,  the notional  allowance should be 
applied to 75% of the total amount.
4. Pay any future fees owed  by Mr I to the SIPP, for the next five years.
Had the firm given suitable advice I dont think there would be a SIPP.   If the firm cannot buy 
the shares from the SIPP its not fair that Mr I continue to pay the annual SIPP fees.  So,  to 
provide certainty  to both parties,  I think its fair that the firm pays  Mr I an upfront lump  sum 
equivalent to five years  worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees), or 
undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during  the next five years.  This should  provide a 
reasonable period for things to be worked  out so the SIPP  can be closed. 
In return, the firm may ask Mr I to provide an undertaking  to give it the net amount of any 
payment he may receive from the shares in company  A in that five year period, as well as 
any other payment  he may receive  from any party  as a result  of the holding.  That 
undertaking should allow for the effect  of any tax and charges on the amount they may 
receive. The firm will need to meet any costs  in drawing up this undertaking. If it asks Mr I to 
provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation  awarded by my decision may be 
dependent upon provision  of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, the firm wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for 
any future payments  under the investment, it must  agree  to pay any further future  SIPP fees.
Pay Mr I £500 for the trouble and upset  caused.
Mr I has been caused significant upset by the events this complaint relates to, and the loss 
of, in effect, all of his personal pension fund. I think that a payment  of £500 is fair to 
compensate for that upset.
Mr I had nothing further to add.
The firm made  the following comments:
Ref: DRN486134811By relying on case law this service is effectively  providing a legal service  for Mr I.
The reference in my provisional  decision  to the Fredericks v Positive  Solutions  case  
is inappropriate because  it involves an agent rather than an AR.  
It is unreasonable to assume the SIPP advice  and the advice about the investment in 
the SIPP were given on the same  day.  It is reasonable to assume that any advice 
was given some time before the application  was completed.  On  this basis it is 
probably the case that the advice was given when the AR had been suspended by 
the firm.
When the AR was suspended he was expressly  forbidden to carry out regulated 
activities.
  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I have not been 
persuaded to change  my mind.
Whilst this decision,  unlike most decisions  of the ombudsman service,  deals extensively with 
legal issues this is due to the circumstances  of this particular case.  Jurisdiction issues  are 
not decided on the basis of what is fair and reasonable but what  the various rules and laws 
say  in this case s 39(3) of FSMA.  It is therefore unavoidable that the court  cases which  
help clarify  this point  have  to be discussed.   Deciding  jurisdiction is not for the benefit of one 
party  it is a necessary  step in deciding whether we can look at a case.  
I accept that the case of Fredericks involves an agent rather than an AR  and this was 
specifically highlighted  in the provisional decision.   The case was quoted because of its 
relevance to whether an agent (or AR) was operating  a recognisably  independent business 
to that of his principal.  It had no relevance  to my interpretation of section  39(3) of FSMA.
Advice can often take place over the course  of several meetings but this is not always the 
case. There is no documentary evidence of advice and the only hard evidence we have is 
the date the form was completed  which is backed up by Mr Is recollection.  In the absence 
of any contradictory  evidence I consider it reasonable  to take this as the date the advice was 
given.  This  was after the date the ARs suspension  had been lifted.  It therefore remains  my 
view that the firm is responsible for the advice  given. 
For the reasons  set out above my decision is that this complaint should be upheld.  Neither 
party has commended on the proposed  redress.  I therefore confirm that the redress  set out 
above should be paid to Mr I.        
my final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. I order  Quilter  Financial  Planning to 
pay the redress set out above.  If the award  is not paid within 28 days of Quilter Financial 
Planning being told of Mr Is acceptance then interest should be added to the award.  This 
should be simple  interest  at the rate of 8% a year from the date of this decision to the date of 
payment.  Income tax may be payable  on any interest paid. If Quilter Financial Planning 
deducts income tax from the interest it should tell Mr I how much has been  taken. It should  
Ref: DRN486134812also give him a tax deduction certificate  so he can reclaim any overpaid tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4861348