K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold him mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) and critical illness cover (CIC) in 2010.
background
The policies were  sold as part of a Total Mortgage Payment Protection Policy (TMPP).          
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which typically includes PPI together with other 
features, such as life insurance and critical illness cover.  The individual  elements  of the 
cover can be added or taken out as the consumer wishes. 
In this case the TMPP sold to Mr H contained  a PPI policy which covered him against  
involuntary unemployment. If Mr H had lost his job the policy  would have paid a monthly 
benefit of £271.60 for up to 12 months.
The TMPP also contained a CIC policy. This would have paid Mr H a lump sum equal to his 
outstanding mortgage amount if he had a serious accident or was diagnosed with a critical 
illness. The initial  sum assured was £57,600. The sum assured would have decreased  over 
time in line with Mr Hs outstanding  mortgage  balance. 
The monthly premium for the TMPP was £25.27 per month.
Mr H says Halifax pressured him into buying the TMPP.  He says he had other  resources and 
no dependents which meant  he had no need  for the cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy was mis-sold. Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicators  
findings so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
The policy was sold in 2010 so it isnt surprising that Halifax  doesnt have copies of all the 
paperwork completed at the time. I also have to take into account that memories can fade 
over time. In cases like this, where  the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I make  my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, on what I think  is most likely  to have 
happened. 
Ive taken into account what we know about  how Halifax  sold these policies in branches  
around this time and the documents weve seen in the past. And, on balance,  the paperwork  
in these cases made it clear to consumers that the policy  was optional and they would have 
been asked for their consent to the cover.
I have seen a copy of the mortgage offer from 2010 which  states that Mr H didnt have to 
take out any insurance through  Halifax.
Ref: DRN49435752Mr H told us he felt pressured  into taking the policy. Ive thought  about  this but there  are 
notes made  on Halifaxs  internal  systems  from the time of the mortgage application which 
show he declined to take life cover as he had no dependants. So it looks like Mr H was able 
to decline part of Halifaxs recommendation.
The premiums for the TMPP policy were  taken separately to the mortgage payments by 
direct debit and would have appeared on his bank  statements.  And the policy remained in 
force for five years until 2015. If Mr H didnt  want the cover or thought he didnt  need  it Id 
expect him to have  questioned it at an early  stage after the mortgage. But Ive not seen any 
evidence that he did.
So taking everything into account I think its most likely Mr H was told he had a choice  about  
whether to buy the policy or not, and he chose to take it although  I can understand if he cant 
recall this after so many  years.
Halifax recommended  that Mr H buy the policy.  So Halifax  had a duty to make sure it was 
right for him. And from what Ive seen  I think it was.
Mr H seems to have  been eligible for the PPI and CIC elements of the policy. He wasnt  
affected by anything the policy didnt  cover such as unusual employment conditions or 
existing medical conditions. So hed have been  able to make a claim if he needed to.
Mr H has told us he didnt need  the CIC cover as he had no dependents and was entitled to 
six months full sick pay followed by six months  half pay from his employers.
The CIC cover  is designed  to pay a lump sum if the policyholder is seriously injured  or 
diagnosed with a critical illness. If this occurred  it is likely the consumer  would be unable to 
work for a prolonged period of time and possibly incur other costs,  for instance if any 
specialist care is needed. In this case  the cover recommended would have cleared Mr Hs 
outstanding mortgage. Mr Hs full sick pay would only have lasted for six months after that 
his income would be halved. So I think he did have  a need for this cover,  particularly as he 
was taking on a new mortgage for the first time and was solely responsible  for maintaining 
the repayments.
I note Mr H didnt have  any dependents, and that would be a valid reason to say he didnt  
have a need for life cover  as he had nobody to provide for if he died. But the CIC cover was 
designed to provide a lump sum to benefit himself and to allow him to clear  his mortgage and 
concentrate on recovery from serious  ill-health  without the worry of a mortgage debt. So I 
think the CIC was a suitable  recommendation for Halifax to make.
The PPI policy would  also pay a benefit for up to 12 months if Mr H lost his job. Although     
Mr H may have  got some redundancy  pay if that happened, the policy would allow  him to 
use any redundancy pay towards other  living costs which  would be ongoing. So I think  the 
policy would have been useful to him if things went wrong, particularly if Mr H was 
unemployed for a lengthy spell.
As well as making sure the policy was right for him, Halifax  also had to give Mr H information 
that was clear, fair and not misleading.   
Its possible that Halifax didnt give Mr H all the information it shouldve.  But from what Ive 
seen the TMPP cover  was right for Mr H and I think its likely Mr H was interested  in this type 
of cover.  The cost of the policy seems to have been  comparable to other, similar policies  on 
Ref: DRN49435753the market at the time, and Ive not seen anything  to make me think  the premiums were not 
affordable. So even if Halifax had given Mr H all the clear information about  the policy and 
the premiums that it should have, I still think hed have bought it.
In summary  I think its most likely  the policy was presented as optional and Mr H chose to 
buy it. It looks like Halifax recommended  a policy that was right for Mr H, and I dont think 
any clearer information wouldve made him change  his mind about  applying for the policy. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against Bank of Scotland  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4943575