K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Legal and General Assurance  Society Limited (L&G) caused  delays  
when his pension  annuity was set up. As a result, he says L&G should backdate his first 
annuity payment  to April 2019.
background
Mr C called L&G on 18 April 2019  to set up an annuity. He had retired on 31 March  2019, 
and his existing  pension provider didnt provide annuities. L&G booked  a telephone 
appointment with Mr C on 7 May 2019,  to provide him with a telephone quotation. L&G said 
this was the first available appointment.
After the call, Mr C was sent an application  form to complete and sign. The completed form 
arrived back at L&G on 10 May 2019.  L&G processed Mr Cs application on 13 May and 
asked his pension  provider to send them his pension funds.
His pension provider processed the request for the transfer of funds on 16 May. On 21 May 
2019, L&G received Mr Cs funds to purchase the annuity. The annuity was set up and the 
date set for payment was the 21st of each month.
L&G said as it wasnt possible to process a payment in time for May, Mr C was sent 2 
annuity payments  in June, one on 14 June and the other on 21 June 2019.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint.  She said that the time taken to set up an 
annuity varied between providers, particularly  when funds were coming from another 
provider. From receipt of the application,  she said that it was reasonable for the process to 
be completed within 4-6 weeks; which it was in Mr Cs case. 
She concluded that there wouldve been insufficient  time to set up the annuity in April,  given 
that Mr C didnt contact  L&G until the 18th. She said that although the telephone meeting  was 
a little time after the first contact, this was the first available  date and she noted that there 
were two bank holidays  in between.
She said that although Mr C felt he had missed out on an annuity payment  for April, she 
couldnt see that he had. L&G didnt receive his funds until 21 May,  and until that time they 
continued to be invested with the previous pension provider.
Mr C didnt accept our adjudicators view.  He said another pension provider had backdated 
his pension to 31 March 2019,  his retirement  date. He thinks that L&G should  acknowledge 
his retirement date, irrespective of its processing  times. He says he has no issue  with L&G 
paying his first payment in June, but he objects to it not being backdated to April.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by our adjudicator and for much the same reasons.
Mr Cs funds remained invested with his previous pension provider until mid May 2019, when 
they were transferred to L&G to set up the annuity.  L&G was not therefore in possession of 
his funds prior to this date to make  an annuity  payment out of. 
Ref: DRN48572052I cant see that there were  any unreasonable delays  between 18 April and mid May, leading 
to a delay in Mr Cs annuity being set up. He did have to wait a few weeks for the telephone 
appointment. But, in my view, this wasnt an unreasonable amount of time,  in the 
circumstances. And, in my view,  once L&G received Mr Cs completed  annuity application, it 
processed it in a timely way. It made two annuity payments to him in June, to make up for 
the fact that it wasnt able to make a payment in May. Again, I consider this to be a 
reasonable response. It set the payment date for future monthly payments as the same  day 
the money was received which I think was a fair way to proceed. So, I cant  fairly or 
reasonably say that Mr C has lost out because of the way that L&G processed his annuity 
application from start to finish.
Mr C asks me to order L&G to backdate his annuity payments to April. He does so on the 
basis that he retired on 31 March  2019 and another provider has agreed to backdate 
pension payments. I dont  know the full circumstances behind that. It might be that the other 
provider was in possession of Mr Cs funds throughout, so it could take everything back to 
31 March, treating his money as being  dis-invested on that day too. But, in any event we 
consider each case on its own facts and merits. It would  be unfair to require L&G to 
backdate Mr Cs annuity payments to a time when it was not in possession of his money and 
he potentially was still benefitting from having  his money invested  with the other provider.  
Also, If Mr C wanted to make sure that his annuity payments started as soon as he retired,  it 
was open to him to start the process with L&G sooner, knowing he was going to retire on 31 
March. So, I cant fairly  or reasonably require L&G to backdate his annuity payments  to April 
2019.
In all the circumstances, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4857205