K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that the vehicle  which  she hired through a finance agreement supplied  by 
LeasePlan UK Limited wasnt  of satisfactory  quality. She wants  charges for early termination 
of the agreement to be waived. And she wants payments made for the period she was 
unable to use the vehicle to be refunded.
background
Miss S tells us she hired the vehicle, in November 2014, for use in connection with her 
business. She says the vehicle was acquired  through a company Ill refer to as V with the 
finance being provided by LeasePlan. She reports there were no major issues with the 
vehicle until 2017  when it started  cutting  out. Despite repairs being  attempted  by an 
approved repairer,  a company Ill refer to as P, she says she still wasnt  able to use the 
vehicle. Miss S states  that as she needed a reliable vehicle for her work she agreed  with V 
for a new vehicle to be financed  through an agreement  with LeasePlan. Miss S says she 
thought her previous plan would be terminated  at no cost to her. But she says LeasePlan 
applied an early termination charge and continued  to charge her for both vehicles.
LeasePlan told us it was never made aware  of issues with the vehicle. And so it wasnt  able 
to assess if the vehicle was repairable before the new agreement was set up. And it said it 
wasnt aware of any agreement between Miss S and V regarding the funding  of a new 
vehicle. As the first rental agreement remained  live it said the rental charges were applied.  
And when  the account fell into arrears it said the van was repossessed and sold. It said it 
applied an early termination fee of £2,693.11  in line with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He felt the job cards  hed 
seen showed  the vehicle  had experienced a catalogue of issues.  And that this included  
faults with the vehicles  fuel injectors. He felt these should last the lifetime of the vehicle and 
cant be considered  a wear and tear item. As such he didnt think the vehicle was sufficiently  
durable. And he didnt  think Miss S getting in touch with V rather than LeasePlan was 
unreasonable.  
LeasePlan didnt agree  with this outcome  and said it hadnt been  given the chance  to assess  
the vehicle. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint  an ombudsmans  been  asked  
to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Miss S has experienced inconvenience over such a lengthy period in trying  to 
get this issue  resolved.
As is the case with many  complaints  I think theres  been some misunderstandings between  
the parties and a lack of clear communication.  And I think this has ultimately led to the 
unfortunate situation of Miss S finding herself  being required to pay for two vehicles at the 
same time. I can see that this caused considerable disruption to her business and led to 
some financial  difficulties.  
Ref: DRN40069932Where information is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - Im required to 
determine any factual  disputes on the balance of probabilities. 
Theres no dispute that in 2017  the vehicle experienced  a number of problems. This is 
supported by the various job cards in relation to repairs and the vehicles service history.
It was therefore entirely reasonable  for Miss S to contact V in order  to try and resolve the 
problems. As she was dependent upon the vehicle to maintain her business I understand 
she would  want a speedy resolution.
At the start of September 2017 the vehicle was again taken in for repairs.  And the 
information Ive received  shows  that Miss S and V were shortly  afterwards involved in 
discussions as to how to best resolve the ongoing  problems.  Miss S clearly needed a 
reliable vehicle for her business and various options  appear to have been discussed. This 
included a replacement  new vehicle and the possibility of V purchasing  the older vehicle.
It appears a new vehicle was ordered  at around this time which  was eventually delivered in 
December 2017.  I can see that in the interim period  V contacted LeasePlan to get early 
settlement figures  but it seems not to have told LeasePlan about  the ongoing problems with 
the older vehicle.  V says it thought Miss S had taken this matter up with LeasePlan. 
The result was that it was only in January  2018  when one of Vs sales agents  raised  a query  
about what was happening with the older  vehicle  that the full scale of the problems came to 
light. The agent  emailed  LeasePlan and advised  that - as the older vehicle had been  
experiencing long term intermittent problems  - Miss S felt there should be no early 
termination fee included in any settlement. Two days later LeasePlan replied indicating  it had 
been unaware of the issues with the older vehicle and stating the fee would still apply. As a 
consequence Miss S found herself  with two live agreements for which  she was expected to 
pay. 
Its unfortunate that LeasePlan  wasnt made  aware  of the issues  with the older vehicle. I 
think thats probably due to a misunderstanding  between Miss S and V who both seem  to 
have thought the other had told LeasePlan. Whilst I understand Lease  Plans  concerns, I 
think upon learning of the circumstances it should  have acted differently. And I dont think it 
gave sufficient consideration to its response  before declining to assist  Miss S.
I think it ought to have been  apparent to LeasePlan that it was unlikely shed knowingly have 
agreed to have two live agreements  at the same  time. And the details itd received in Vs 
email of 8 January 2018 were sufficient  in my opinion to require LeasePlan  to look at the 
overall circumstances.  Itd been told the older vehicle had been experiencing long term 
intermittent problems and was unreliable and breaking down every week. Rather  than make 
any further enquires it seems LeasePlan decided  simply to confirm it wouldnt waive  the 
early termination fee. I think its clear  the circumstances required proper investigation and I 
dont think LeasePlan acted fairly in dismissing  Miss Ss concerns without ensuring this was 
carried out.
As the supplier of the vehicle  under a hire agreement LeasePlan is responsible for the 
vehicle being  of satisfactory quality when supplied. This was a new vehicle at the time of 
supply and one of the elements that is considered in determining if goods are of satisfactory 
quality is that of durability.
Ref: DRN40069933The vehicle service  history shows that its experienced  various faults with its fuel injection 
system. The print out shows  that at 33,727 miles theres a reference to the No 1 fuel injector  
which seems to have been  replaced.  On 8 February 2017 it appears  that the No 2 and 3 fuel 
injectors were replaced. And in November 2017  the No 1 and 4 fuel injectors  were  found to 
be leaking  and were  replaced. Im aware  the vehicle  has travelled more than average 
mileage - but fuel injectors  arent  a serviceable item - that is they shouldnt  need routine 
replacement. It seems  the most likely  explanation is an intermittent fault. As such  Im 
satisfied on a balance  of probabilities that the vehicle  wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. It wasnt of sufficient durability.
As this complaint  has taken some time to investigate, things  have moved on and my 
understanding of the present situation is that the older vehicle has been repossessed  and 
sold. Miss S continues to use and pay for the new vehicle  through  the new agreement. Im 
therefore limited by the practicalities as to what I can reasonably require in making my final 
decision.
I emphasise that Im required to make my decision on the basis  of what  I consider to be fair 
and reasonable.  So Im looking  at wider considerations than just purely contractual  issues. I 
dont think Miss S wouldve sought  a replacement vehicle - prior to the expiry  of the existing 
agreement - if it hadnt been  for the unreliability of her current  vehicle. Im satisfied that 
vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.  As its continuing unreliability was 
threatening the viability of her business - leaving her with little alternative to seek a 
replacement vehicle - it doesnt  seem  fair and reasonable she should  face an early 
termination charge  to end the agreement. 
I also take into account that LeasePlan is a party to the new agreement. Its highly 
improbable that Miss S would knowingly have agreed to have  two live agreements in force  
at the same  time. Still less if shed known the early termination charge would apply. Im 
therefore going to require  LeasePlan to waive the early termination charge.
Dealing with the consequential aspects of the vehicle not being of satisfactory  quality, Ive 
considered the cost of the various  repairs and the time the faulty  vehicle was off the road 
when Miss S was still having to make  payments.  I think the fairest  way to settle this aspect is 
for all payments due on the first agreement to be waived  from September 2017. Where  
theyve been paid they should be refunded. 
The vehicle was subject  to repairs from September to November 2017.  And Miss Ss new 
vehicle was supplied  in December. Its not entirely  clear how or why she was supplied with 
the new vehicle  before the agreement on the older  vehicle was correctly terminated. The 
new agreement was, as I understand,  due to be part financed by the sale of the older 
vehicle.
Ive already indicated my view that LeasePlan shouldve acted differently when becoming 
aware of these circumstances in January  2018.  Exactly how the situation  wouldve been 
resolved is not possible  to say. It seems probable that one or other of the agreements  
wouldve been terminated. And that wouldve meant  Miss S was not paying for both vehicles.
In summary,  Im sure Miss S had no intention of hiring two vehicles at the same time. That 
she ended  up in this position was largely  due to the first vehicle not being of satisfactory  
quality and proving to be unreliable. And to the misunderstandings which occurred in trying  
to resolve this problem
Ref: DRN40069934I think its fair and reasonable that Miss S should  pay for the use of her current  vehicle from 
the time it was supplied.  But I dont think its fair she should have  to pay for the period the 
older vehicle  was off the road from September  2017.  Nor do I think  she should have to pay 
for any overlapping period  between  the two agreements.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
In full and final settlement  of this complaint I now require LeasePlan UK Limited  to take the 
following action:
1.Waive the early termination  fee of £2693.11;
2.Waive payments due for any period from September  2017 to scheduled termination 
of agreement;
3.Refund any payments  made for periods  due after September  2017 together  with 
simple interest at the rate of 8%per year;
4.Arrange for removal of any adverse entries  on Miss Ss credit file arising  from this 
agreement from September 2017 onwards;
5.Pay £150 compensation to Ms S for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2020..
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4006993