K820x#14complaint
Mrs Hs representative complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold an interest only mortgage 
to Mrs H and her late husband. And it says that Santander has not offered her any help or 
options in relation to repayment  of the outstanding mortgage balance.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with Santander  in 2008. It was an interest only mortgage 
for a 5 year term and the amount borrowed was around £307,000.
After the mortgage  term expired Santander allowed  an extension of five years on an interest 
only basis. This additional term expired on 1 December 2019.
Mr H died in 2015.
Mrs Hs representative complained to Santander in July 2018. But Santander didnt uphold  
the complaint.  It said, in summary:
the mortgage application was originally submitted by a financial adviser in 2008.  It was 
taken out on interest only and the repayment  vehicle was an investment link that was 
arranged to pay the mortgage off at the end of the term. The application was agreed  and 
offered as it fulfilled  Santanders lending criteria for a mortgage  at the time;
Santander hadnt had any contact  from Mrs H regarding the repayment  options since  
July 2016. 
Our investigator didnt  think that Mrs Hs complaint  should be upheld. She said, in summary:
Mrs Hs representative had said that the mortgage should never have been sold to Mr 
and Mrs H, and that Santander  should  have asked how the mortgage was intended to 
be repaid. But the mortgage was advised  and sold by a broker. And the application form 
stated that the repayment vehicle was an investment.  So if the representative believed 
the mortgage was mis-sold or any information provided by the broker was incorrect  this 
was something that would need to be raised  as a complaint  against the broker;
It had stated  that Santander hadnt considered its duty of care towards Mrs H, and 
hasnt offered any alternatives to how the balance can be repaid. But the investigator 
was satisfied  that Santander  had assisted Mrs H where it could. In particular it had 
offered a 5 year extension on an interest only basis when  the mortgage term expired;
Santander had stated that it wanted to work with Mrs H to explore what  options  might be 
available to her, and it had tried to engage with Mrs H but as yet she hadnt made 
contact with Santander to fully discuss this;
The investigator recommended that Mrs H should  seek  independent financial advice to 
help her explore her options.
Mrs Hs representative doesnt  accept our investigators findings. It maintains that the 
mortgage was mis-sold  by Santander. And it wants to understand why documentation it has 
received from Santander in connection with the mortgage refers  to people  who are not a 
party to the mortgage.
Ref: DRN49922832my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mrs H. But, having carefully  considered all the available  evidence and 
arguments Ive come to the same decision as our investigator, and for much the same 
reasons. I realise that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs H so Ill explain why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage application.  This states that it was submitted by a mortgage 
broker, who advised Mr and Mrs H on the mortgage. As our investigator  has explained, it 
was therefore  the brokers  responsibility to ensure that the mortgage was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs H, and that the information in the application form was accurate.
I appreciate that Mrs Hs representative  says that Santander should have checked the 
information supplied  to it. But there  was no obligation on Santander to do this at the time. 
Once the application was submitted  to Santander it would have considered  it to see if it met 
its lending criteria. As the application did meet Santanders lending  criteria the application  
was approved and the mortgage was offered.
Mrs Hs representative has said that Santander hasnt offered her any help, and hasnt  
offered any alternatives  as to how the balance  can be repaid. But I see that when the 
mortgage term expired  Santander did offer a 5 year extension  to the term on an interest  only 
basis. And although Mrs Hs representative  says this was only delaying the inevitable  
Santander says  and I accept  that this was only considered as a last resort  as there were 
no other options available at that time.
Santander has said that it does want to work with Mrs H and explore the options available  to 
her now,  but it can only do this if she engages with it. And I see from the evidence supplied  
to me that it has written to Mrs H on a number of occasions. But so far Mrs H hasnt made 
contact with Santander to discuss the situation. I strongly recommend that Mrs H now does  
so, or that she appoints  a representative  to do so on her behalf.
Finally, Mrs Hs representative has asked  why it has received documentation from 
Santander in connection with the mortgage  referring to people  who are not a party  to the 
mortgage. Santander has confirmed that this is an error, and the deeds of the property 
correctly listed Mr and Mrs H as the owners. 
Having looked  at the documentation I agree with Santanders conclusion that the names  
were on the document due to an error. And Im satisfied from the evidence  Ive seen that no 
other parties  are named  on Mrs Hs mortgage account or property deeds.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4992283