K820x#14complaint
Miss G has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) unreasonably 
increased her premium for her pet insurance.  She also complained  that it didnt return its 
calls to her when it said it would.
background
Miss G insured her cat with RSA. In August 2018, it was up for renewal. Her premium  
increased to £862.00 for the year from £552.79  the previous year. 
So she complained. RSA said it hadnt done anything wrong although it paid her £25 
compensation for the issue concerning the delayed  calls.
Miss G remained dissatisfied and brought her complaint to us. The adjudicator didnt think  
RSA needed to do anything more. Miss G disagreed so her complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
As the adjudicator explained  this service has no remit to tell an insurer  what  it should  charge 
its customers for its policies. Thats a commercial decision for each insurer to make.  Those 
commercial decisions are regulated by the Financial Conduct  Authority.
However, this service can ensure no mistakes were  made in the calculation of the premium 
and can ensure any individual consumer such as Miss G here, hasnt been singled out or 
treated any differently.
RSA explained  to us how it calculated Ms Gs premium. Again, as the adjudicator explained 
thats commercially sensitive information  so I cant share with Miss G or detail it in this 
decision as we publish our decisions.  However, like the adjudicator I have carefully  
assessed that in line with our approach.
Miss Gs premium  effectively increased  by 34.5%, which I can understand was a significant  
increase for Miss G. However, the increase was due to the claims Miss G had made  the 
previous year and the amount of them, plus year-on-year  increases. RSA also explained  that 
it takes the view if someone has made claims in one year, theres an increased likelihood 
there will be further claims the next policy year.  
So Im satisfied the increase to Miss Gs premium was effected by RSA correctly. And that 
anyone else in her position with an elderly  pet with claims the previous year would have 
been treated the same. Therefore, Miss G wasnt singled out or treated unfairly in my 
opinion. 
When Miss G complained about this initially to RSA, it failed to return its calls to her when it 
said it would. RSA apologised  for this and paid Miss G £25 compensation. I consider this is 
adequate for such service  failings, as it would have  been around  the amount  I would  have 
awarded if RSA had failed to do so for such service  failings.
Ref: DRN47148392my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4714839