K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that when  he made overpayments towards his finance agreement  with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) they reduced the term without telling  him thats  
how theyd treat the payments. 
background
Mr S took receipt of a new car in May 2016.  He financed the deal through  a three  year hire 
purchase agreement  with BMWFS. He made  three over payments and expected this to 
reduce the amount of instalments due. But he was disappointed to discover that BMWFS  
reduced the term of the agreement instead  and that his last payment was therefore due in 
December 2018,  not April 2019.
He said BMWFS shouldve told him this is what they were  intending  to do and he 
complained that, as the car would be returned  earlier they would  benefit  from it consequently 
having a higher resale value.
BMWFS said they had written to Mr S and in these letters theyd explained how many 
monthly payments  remained. It was clear,  they said, that this meant the final payment had 
been brought forward rather than the instalments reduced and that Mr S had accepted this 
by making the payments.
But Mr S was dissatisfied with their response so he referred his complaint to this service and 
our adjudicator provided her opinion. She explained  that legislation  allowed BMWFS  to 
chose whether they reduced the instalments; reduced the term or did both, when over 
payments were made.  So she thought  they were able to reduce the term of the agreement. 
She checked BMWFSs system  notes  but couldnt  see hed ever been  told the term wouldnt 
reduce and whilst she understood  this meant Mr S had less time to consider whether he 
wanted to make the final balloon payment and take receipt of the car she didnt think hed 
been financially  disadvantaged by BMWFSs actions and she therefore  didnt  think  they 
needed to take any further action.
But Mr S disagreed. He thought it was unfair that BMWFS hadnt  mentioned,  either in the 
agreement or subsequently, that the impact of him making a payment would be that the term 
was reduced.  He therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr S so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN40532662Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.
The relevant  legislation  is the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 and was amended  by the 
Consumer Credit Directive 2008 which says:
14.14 A partial early  settlement reduces the amount  outstanding on the loan. Therefore, 
either the duration of the agreement will be reduced  or the amount of the instalment 
payments will be reduced  or a combination  of the two. The legislation does not mandate  any 
particular outcome. The creditor may stipulate  a particular outcome in the agreement or may 
agree this with the borrower  at the time of early settlement.
So BMWFS  were able to reduce the instalments or the duration of the agreement. But as the 
treatment of the partial early settlement wasnt mentioned in the agreement  theyd need to 
agree with Mr S how theyd apply it. 
Im persuaded that theres sufficient information  here to show  that Mr S was, or should 
reasonably have been aware of, how that payment was being treated. 
Ive seen that on each occasion  when Mr S called to query  a lump sum payment he was 
provided with a quote. Those quotes told him how many payments were left and how much 
each instalment would be so I think  its reasonable to suggest he shouldve  realised the term 
had been reduced rather than the instalments.
Ive also noted  in BMWFSs call records that on 8 March 2017 that an email  from Mr S had 
been received  in regards to a lump sum wanting an explanation  as to the saving and 
rebate. That record goes  on to explain  I have advised it is possible to make partial early 
repayments to either, reduce the term  or reduce the payment amount.
So Im persuaded  that legislation allowed BMWFS to reduce the term and that sufficient 
information is present  to suggest, on balance, that options had been explored and the 
treatment of the over payment had been  explained  to Mr S and agreed, as he subsequently 
accepted BMWFSs quotations.
In those circumstances I dont think it would be fair to ask BMWFS  to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4053266