K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  Capquest Debt Recovery Limited  is pursuing  him for a debt that isnt 
his.
background
After getting a letter from Capquest asking him to repay a catalogue shopping debt, Mr L told 
them this wasnt his debt.  He provided  Capquest  with the evidence they requested to show 
his identity. He heard nothing from them. He brought his complaint to the ombudsman 
service.
In the meantime Mr L had applied for a mortgage which had been rejected because of the 
default on his record relating to this credit agreement since 2012.
Our investigator asked  for further evidence from Capquest to show the debt belonged to 
Mr L. This could include evidence Mr L had been  sent statements or goods had been 
delivered to his address. Nothing  was forthcoming. Our investigator felt Capquest had 
nothing to show this debt was Mr Ls. He asked  them to stop pursuing him for any debt and 
remove any data from Mr Ls credit  record  (although this in all likelihood had fallen  away 
from his record after six years had passed at the end of 2018). He also asked Capquest  to 
pay Mr L £150 for the trouble caused.
Mr L accepted  this outcome but Capquest  didnt properly respond. They were still waiting to 
get information from the company who they felt Mr L had originally taken out a consumer 
credit agreement with.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as out investigator and for roughly similar  reasons. Ill explain why.
Capquest has been able to give us a copy of the original credit  agreement.  This was taken 
out online so there  is only an electronic signature. Mr Ls first name has been  spelt  
incorrectly since the original agreement was taken out (and in all subsequent 
correspondence). I do think this is significant as most individuals are quite particular about 
spelling this own names right.
Capquest has given  us nothing to show what was bought on this account and where it was 
delivered. In this absence, I dont have enough evidence  to say Mr L took out this credit 
agreement. He denies this is the case. And as soon as he got a letter from Capquest asking 
him to repay the debt,  he took action.
What Capquest seems to be doing is making a personal claim against Mr L because in their 
opinion Mr L got some kind of benefit  from the credit  agreement.  Im afraid I dont agree that 
is fair or reasonable.  I dont believe  Capquest  has any contractual  relationship with Mr L as 
he didnt take out the credit agreement. Therefore they have no grounds to ask him to repay 
the outstanding £752.
Capquest has had plenty  of opportunity to provide the evidence weve requested  to 
demonstrate Mr L got any benefit from this agreement. Ive not received anything.
Ref: DRN46081552I agree  Capquest will need to stop pursuing Mr L for this debt. They will also need to remove  
any data relating to this credit agreement from his credit record   if anything is still there as it 
appears any agreement  and default  should  have disappeared six years after the default.  
Im going  to increase the compensation Im asking Capquest to pay Mr L. He has received 
letters about  a debt that isnt his; his arguments were  ignored by Capquest  and there were 
the inevitable  consequences of an incorrect record on his credit  file. Im going to ask them  to 
pay £250 in total.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Capquest  Debt  Recovery Limited 
to:
Stop pursuing Mr L for repayment  of a catalogue shopping debt;
Make  sure any reference to this credit agreement is removed from his credit record;  
and
Pay Mr L £250 for the trouble caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4608155