K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI). 
background
Mr C took out a PPI policy at the same time as he applied for a mortgage in 1999.  The sale 
took place in one of the banks branches. The policy gave him accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment cover  and he paid a monthly  amount for it. He took out two further advances 
on his mortgage  in 2000 and 2001. Each time he increased the level of his PPI benefit to 
cover the additional  repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr C disagreed so 
the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr C says there was no mention of PPI and he wasnt  given an option for it. I cant  know 
what was discussed  but Ive looked  at the paperwork  from the sales.  Mr C completed and 
signed a separate PPI application form on each occasion and there  was nothing on the 
forms that I think could reasonably have led him to believe  the PPI was mandatory. Ive 
thought carefully  about Mr Cs comments but I also have to take into account  how long ago 
the sale was and how that might  impact what he recalls. Overall, I think its most likely Lloyds 
made it clear  that the PPI was optional and Mr C chose to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. The PPI 
application forms show Mr C was in the same job for all of the sales.  He initially  told us he 
was entitled to six months  sick pay, and later said he thought  it was 12 months. But he 
hasnt been able to provide any supporting documentation. Hes told us his employer can 
only confirm that in 2000 he wouldve received 39 weeks full pay and then any statutory 
allowance. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any work  benefits and for up to 12 
months for each successful accident and sickness claim  giving long-term protection. It also 
gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover. 
Mr C was borrowing large sums over a long period, secured on his home.  So the effects  of 
not keeping up the repayments  could have been  serious for him. Overall, I think the PPI 
would have been useful for Mr C if he was sick or lost his job. 
Its possible Lloyds didnt  give Mr C all the information he needed  before  deciding  to buy 
PPI. I dont know when  the costs  were made  clear  but the PPI was competitively priced. 
Mr C has told us money was tight, but I havent seen  any evidence  that the PPI was 
unaffordable. And I dont know that the bank pointed  out the main things the PPI didnt 
Ref: DRN43582452cover. But Mr C doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the main exclusions.  So 
I dont think better information  about  the PPI wouldve changed his mind about  buying  it.
It follows I dont think Mr C has lost out because of any problems with these sales.  Mr C has 
referred to several  other PPI complaints he made to Lloyds that the bank has upheld.  I can 
only comment here on the merits of this complaint,  but I would  add that the outcome of each 
complaint varies based on a number of factors including, but not limited  to, the product the 
PPI protects, the terms of the policy, the price  and how it was sold.  
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4358245