K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  about the service  she received  from Progressive Money Limited  
(Progressive) in relation  to her loan account.
background
Miss B says Progressive misled her about  the amount it would report to the credit reference 
agencies in relation to her loan. She says it harassed her over a payment she missed  in 
December 2018.  And she says it gave her an incorrect figure for settling the loan.
Our investigator thought Miss Bs complaint shouldnt  be upheld. She said during a phone  
call before Miss B took the loan, Progressive had specifically stated the amount it would 
report to the credit reference agencies. The investigator also said she didnt think 
Progressive had been wrong to chase  Miss B for a missing payment. And she said 
Progressive had provided a detailed breakdown of the settlement figure  and Miss B hadnt  
given any explanation why she thought it was inaccurate.  
Miss B disagreed with the investigators conclusions. She said shed  had a conversation  with 
Progressive and it had told her a lower figure would be reported to the credit reference 
agencies. 
So, the matter  has been referred to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
I see Miss Bs main  concern appears to be about  the figure Progressive reported to the 
credit reference agencies in relation to her loan account. So, Ill begin by addressing that 
issue.
Weve been provided with a recording of a phone call between the parties before Miss B 
took the loan and I note during that call Progressive was very precise  about  the figure it 
would report to the credit reference agencies. 
I acknowledge Miss B has told us there was another phone call during which she recalls 
being told a different and lower figure. However, we dont have a recording of that call. So, 
whilst I dont doubt Miss B recalls  such a discussion taking place, Im satisfied based on the 
call recording  Ive referred to that she was given the correct information  about this matter  
before she took the loan out.  
Miss B is also unhappy about the contact  she received from Progressive about a payment  
she missed in December  2018. I note from the recording of a call on 21 January 2019 that    
Miss B phoned Progressive with a view to making the outstanding payment. But it appears  
that the discussion turned to her unhappiness  about the issue  Ive already  referred  to and 
the payment wasnt made. 
Ref: DRN43661172In these circumstances, I dont think its surprising that Progressive made further contact with 
Miss B about the missed  payment. And I havent  seen anything  to indicate that contact was 
inappropriate, so Im unable  to uphold this aspect of her complaint.
In addition, Miss B considers Progressive gave her an inaccurate figure to settle her 
account. Ive seen a detailed  breakdown of the settlement figure Progressive gave her on 
11 April 2019. But I havent  been given any information about why Miss B considers it to be 
inaccurate. And, this means I cant uphold this aspect of her complaint.  
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Miss Bs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Miss Bs complaint  against Progressive Money Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4366117