K820x#14complaint
Mr S on behalf of business S has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc rejected a claim he 
made for the theft of a car under  his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
background
Mr S bought a car and called  his broker to arrange  insurance cover for it. The broker  
arranged for Mr Ss car to be added to his existing commercial insurance policy.  The insurer  
for that policy is Allianz.
Allianz provided a cover  note to the broker, which it forwarded to Mr S. Unfortunately,  about 
three weeks later; Mr Ss car was stolen. He reported the theft to the police and his broker.  
Allianz rejected  Mr Ss claim because it said he hadnt met its conditions  of providing 
insurance cover. Allianz said it told the broker that Mr S needed to ensure  his car had a 
category 5 security  tracker. It said it told the broker Allianz would exclude cover  if this wasnt 
added to the car within 14 days of insuring the car.
Mr S didnt think Allianzs decision was fair. He said Allianz listed exclusions on its cover  
note  but the requirement for the tracker  wasnt  listed. He believed Allianz should have 
been clearer. 
Our investigator thought Allianz had acted reasonably. The broker had provided a recording 
of a call it had with Mr S. In this call the broker passed on Allianzs requirement for Mr S to 
ensure his car had a category 5 tracker.  He didnt believe it was for Allianz  to highlight every 
exclusion in the cover note it provided.  So the investigator didnt recommend Mr Ss 
complaint should  be upheld.  
Mr S didnt agree. So hed like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Allianz  as the insurer of Mr Ss car  is responsible for dealing  with any claim Mr S may 
make under his policy. The broker is responsible for arranging  insurance cover.  In this case, 
the broker arranged  cover with Allianz on Mr Ss behalf. 
Allianz provided a cover  note which shows it listed exclusion for cover  for any drivers under  
the age of 30. But it didnt  list the exclusion if Mr Ss car didnt have a category 5 tracker. I 
understand Mr S believes this is significant.  
However, although this complaint isnt against  the broker, I need to consider  whether Allianz  
did enough to alert the broker  to its requirement in order  to provide insurance  because of 
the brokers role in this case. And I think its appropriate for me to draw a distinction  here.  I 
havent made a finding as to whether the broker did enough to alert Mr S to Allianzs 
requirements and exclusions.  This is separate. 
Ref: DRN48503792As the investigator  explained to Mr S, he is entitled to make  a separate  complaint about  the 
broker if he doesnt believe  it clearly  told him that Allianz required him to have a category 5 
tracker fitted to his car  in order to remain insured.
From the recording of the call, the broker explained to Mr S that Allianz had come back with 
some limitations to providing  insurance for the car. The broker asked Mr S to check  his car 
had a category  5 tracker within the next 14 days and to come  back  to them.  Mr S agreed.
When Allianz investigated Mr Ss claim, it found  that Mr Ss car didnt have a category 5 
tracker fitted. So it rejected  his claim.  
The broker  issued Mr S with a revised certificate of insurance and revised schedule  of 
insurance. I understand Mr S is unhappy with how long it took the broker  to send these to 
him. Mr S will need to raise  a separate complaint with the broker  about  that.
I appreciate that Mr S will be very disappointed with my decision. But based on what Ive 
seen, I cant conclude that the insurer Allianz  has acted unreasonably. I think it made  the 
broker aware of the exclusion  when it provided  insurance cover for Mr Ss car. And this 
means I dont think its decision to reject Mr Ss claim was unreasonable.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S on behalf  of 
business S to accept  or reject my decision before 20 June 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4850379