K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains on behalf of P, a limited company, about a key facts document  produced by 
Strathearn Insurance Services Limited (SISL) in relation to a property deposit bond.
In summary,  Mr R says that SISL failed to disclose material  information and provide 
appropriate risk warnings in the key facts document. He says that he decided to invest  in 
three property investment  schemes (Scheme A, Scheme B and Scheme C) based solely 
upon the respective key facts documents. The schemes all failed, and P lost its investment. 
Mr R says that had the full facts and risk disclosures  been made in the key facts 
documents, he would  not have taken the decision to invest  in the schemes and suffered 
financial loss.  
This decision concerns  Ps investment into Scheme A.
background 
I issued a provisional decision in January 2019  upholding  the complaint. A copy  is attached  
and forms part of this decision.
Mr R, through his representative, responded to accept my provisional decision.  
SISL didnt accept the provisional decision. Its representative  said,  in summary:
On the matter of jurisdiction, SISL  recognises  that this has been  considered  by this 
service in the jurisdiction  decision  in a similar case. Notwithstanding  this, it does not 
accept that P falls within the ordinary meaning  of a client. There was no retainer of SISL 
by the consumer and no remuneration was paid by the consumer to SISL.  It also didnt 
have evidence that P was a micro-enterprise, and therefore  wasnt  satisfied that it was 
an eligible complainant.
The context of the investment needs to be taken into account. The members of the IPIN 
network tend to be high net worth / sophisticated investors who are familiar with property 
club type investments.  SISL understood that the IPIN members had self-certified to IPIN 
that they were  aware of the risks of making  investments of this nature and they invested 
via IPIN because they sought a high rate of return, something which is inevitably 
associated with increased level of risk.
The investors typically received advice from other  parties including their lawyers, IPIN 
and potentially, independent financial advisers  and that is something  that needed to be 
taken into account. 
The provisional decision appears to regard the key facts  document as if it had either 
been a policy summary or key features  document as defined  the FCA Handbook. It is 
actually initial disclosure  document  (IDD) and should be treated as such. It is unfair to 
judge the IDD against the standard of another type of document  which  it never purported 
to be.
It cannot be said that P relied on the key facts document  as it appears quite possible 
that if the same bond had been in place and it was told of the bond  but the key facts  
document had not been present,  it would still have gone ahead  with the scheme.
Ref: DRN42930642Each investor was required to sign their acceptance of the surety  bond  and the 
providers name  and address were displayed on the document the investor  signed.
P had commenced  legal proceedings against  SISL in relation to Scheme A and thought 
our service should  dismiss this particular  case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision. I remain of the view that the 
settlement set out in my provisional decision represents fair compensation.
It seems  to me that a lot of points raised  by SISL  were already considered  by me in the 
provisional decision. So I dont think there is much more to add to what I have already said.  
However, for completeness, I have gone  through again here what  in my view are the key 
points raised by SISLs representative in response to my provisional  decision.
can we consider  the complaint?
As I explained in my provisional decision,  SISL  had objected to this service  considering  this 
complaint, and a number  of others  similar  to it. It said P wasnt  its customer,  the deposit 
protection insurance wasnt a regulated product and that it did not carry out any regulated 
activity.  
This was considered  at length by us in another similar case and SISL  recognises  that the 
jurisdiction issues that are relevant to this case have  been considered in the jurisdiction 
decision in that case.  So I do not want to repeat those findings  here.  I remain  of the view 
that this complaint is within  our jurisdiction for the reasons I mentioned  in my provisional 
decision.  I will however  address  the point raised  by SISL following my provisional decision 
in this regard.   
SISL says that P does not fall within the ordinary  meaning of a client, there  was no retainer 
of SISL by the consumer and no remuneration was paid by it to SISL.
Our powers  to consider  complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets  Act
2000 (FSMA) and in rules, known as the Dispute Resolution Rules  (DISP) written  by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) in accordance with the powers  it derives from FSMA. 
These form part of the FCA Handbook
DISP2.7.1R states:
"A complaint may only be dealt with under  the Financial Ombudsman  Service if it is brought  
by or on behalf  of an eligible complainant."
An eligible  complainant is defined by DISP 2.7.3R as including a consumer, which means 
"any natural  person  acting for purposes outside his trade, business  or profession".
DISP 2.7.6R further states:
To be an eligible complainant a person must  also have a complaint which arises from 
matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent:
Ref: DRN42930643(1)the complainant  is (or was) a customer..  of the respondent
(2)the complainant  is (or was) a potential customer of the respondent
     ..
(5) the complainant  is a person for whose benefit a contract of insurance was taken out or 
was intended  to be taken out with or through the respondent "
P was a beneficiary  under a contract  of insurance. And for the reasons  already explained,  I 
am satisfied  that the contract of insurance was taken through  SISL.  So I consider that P is 
an eligible complainant under DISP  2.7.6(5)R.
It may be that no remuneration was paid directly  by P but often insurance  brokers  are paid 
commission by the insurer and that is what had happened here. SISL was paid commission 
by the insurer  NWIC.  As stated in the key facts  document the commission was about  11% 
of the premium, paid by the developer to NWIC. As I understand it, the premium in turn was 
2.25% of the deposit paid by P. Of this, 2% was retained by NWIC and 0.25% was paid as 
commission to SISL.  
In addition, I also consider  that P is an eligible complainant  under  DISP 2.7.6(2)R. It may be 
that there  was no retainer of SISL  by P but I am satisfied that it was a potential  customer  of 
SISL and therefore eligible complainants under the DISP rules.   
SISL in its capacity as a regulated insurance  intermediary offered its services  to potential  
customers. It said in the key facts document: Due to the regulated nature of the product 
offered, any direct questions relating specifically to the bond  aspect of the SES offering 
should be directed  to Strathearn  Insurance using the contact details below ..
It further said:  The FSA requires  you to be provided with this information. Use this 
information to decide if our services are right for you.
It also referred to our service  in the event  of any complaint and to the FSCS in the event 
SISL could not meet  its obligations.  Thus  I am satisfied that SISL envisaged the recipients of 
the key facts document of the specific schemes as its potential customers. 
It may be that P did not eventually  approach  SISL  but SISL made its services available  to it 
in its capacity as the regulated firm. And as noted earlier, SISL was paid commission in 
relation to the deposits made, whether or not the respective investors contacted  it. 
Taking all of this into account,  it is my view that P was a potential customers of SISL and 
therefore eligible  complainant under DISP 2.7.6(2)R as well. 
SISL has also raised concerns as it hasnt been provided with any evidence  to show  that P 
was a micro-enterprise  at the time it raised  its concerns with SISL. In particular it referred to 
DISP 2.7.3(R):
an enterprise which:
(a)employs fewer than 10 persons; and
(b)has a turnover or annual balance sheet  that does not exceed €2 million.
Our service has sent SISL the relevant  information  to confirm that P meets the criteria to be 
considered a micro-enterprise and asked it for any further comments.
Ref: DRN42930644SISL hasnt responded to this information.  I am satisfied that P meets  the criteria required 
under DISP 2.7.3(R) to be considered a micro-enterprise and therefore this complaint falls 
under the jurisdiction of our service.
 
relevant considerations
I am required to determine this complaint  on the basis of what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations;  regulator's rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice;  and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The FCA handbook  sets out the Principles which are a general statement of the fundamental 
obligations of the firms it regulates, such as SISL.
Principle 7 says:
"A firm must pay due regard to the information  needs of its clients,  and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear  fair and not misleading"
Client is defined as a customer and it includes potential  client (and so potential  customer). 
P was a potential customer, and its complaint is essentially about what SISL communicated 
(or failed to communicate) to it through the 'key facts' document.  So I consider that Principle 
7 is relevant here.
I also consider that Principle 6 is relevant in this instance, which  says:  "A firm must  pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
IPIN provided P with a promotional  literature about the scheme.  It was called the Investment 
Analysis Document  (IAD). The IAD stated  that the bond would protect the full amount of the 
deposit in the event  of a contractual default  by the developer.  Investors were referred to a 
Key Facts document produced by SISL, which was included in the IAD.
The IAD said:
"The property deposit is provided by the developer in association with Strathearn
Insurance Services Ltd (see page  22)". 
Page 21 was entitled Professional Service Providers and included the following:
PROPERTY DEPOSIT  BOND
Strathearn Insurance
The SES application for [Scheme A] uses a Property  Deposit Bond to protect 100% of the 
deposit funds  invested by SES investors in the event that the developer defaults upon  his 
obligations within the applicable purchase agreements.
Ref: DRN42930645The Property Deposit  Bond  is arranged on behalf  of the developer  by Strathearn  Insurance  
Services Limited. Due to the regulated nature of the product offered any direct  questions 
relating specifically to the bond  aspect  of the SES offering should be directed to Strathearn  
Insurance.
Please see Key Facts  document issued  by Strathearn  Insurance overleaf. 
Page 22 is where  SISL's 'key facts' document can be found.
So when SISL produced  and provided the 'key facts'  document for the IAD, it knew  that the 
consumers were being referred to the 'key facts' for information about the bond. So SISL  had 
an obligation  to ensure  that the information  it provided about the bond was clear,  fair, and 
not misleading.
was the information provided clear,  fair, and not misleading?
For the reasons  explained in my provisional decision, I remain  of the view that that SISL  did 
not provide clear, fair and not misleading information  about  the insurance  in its key facts  
document provided to P.
SISL says that what it provided was an Initial Disclosure Document. However  I note that this 
document was referred to as a key facts document by SISL itself on more than one 
occasion. The IAD also refers to it as a key facts  document and not as an Initial  Disclosure 
Document.   
In any event, as I explained in the provisional  decision, this key facts  document  was clearly  
intended as the source  of information about  the bond for potential customers thinking about 
investing in the schemes  and SISL  was aware of it. So I consider that SISL had an obligation  
to ensure that this communication was clear,  fair and not misleading.
did P rely on the key facts  document?  
Having concluded  that the key facts document was not clear  or fair, and was misleading,  I 
need to consider how much reliance P placed on this document before it decided  to make 
the relevant investment.
For the reasons  explained my provisional  decision I think it is reasonable to conclude that P 
looked at what  SISL stated  in the key facts document about the bond, and relied on it when 
it decided to proceed with the scheme.
SISL says that members  of the IPIN network were frequently high net worth / sophisticated 
investors who were familiar with property club type investments.  It says that they were 
aware of the risks they were taking and had sufficient advice to make  informed decision. 
On the other hand, Mr R says that he is not a sophisticated investor. At the time of the 
investment he was an estate agent  for properties both in the UK and overseas and had been 
for a number of years. He has said he was looking for a safe investment with a fairly high 
return. Because of this, the security offered by the insurance was crucial in his decision 
making. He decided to place  the money from his savings that he had intended  to use to 
purchase another property deposit, into investments with IPIN, because his understanding 
was that the funds would be protected from loss, but also had the opportunity  for high growth 
rates.
Ref: DRN42930646In my view the issue here is not so much  about consumers net worth or their knowledge of 
the investment  (i.e., the property scheme  opportunities) but about the insurance that was 
intended to offer protection should  something  go wrong with the investment.  To that extent, I 
accept that Mr R was not expert enough to understand the intricacies of the insurance 
product - for example  the solvency of the insurer or whether they would be eligible for FSCS 
protection should something happen  to the insurer. This is more so as the insurer  was based  
overseas. So I do not consider it unreasonable when he says that he relied on SISLs  
information in relation  to the bond.  
SISL has also said that investors  typically received  advice from other parties including  their 
lawyers, IPIN and potentially other independent financial advisers, and that is something that 
hasnt been taken into account. 
I have considered what SISL  has said and I am not persuaded  by it. As previously 
mentioned, in the marketing literature IPIN clearly directed the potential investors towards 
SISL for information  about the bond  and not to other professionals.  As I understand it, IPIN 
was concerned that it or other related companies should not provide information or advice in 
relation to the insurance as they were not authorised by the FCA in that regard. This was 
why SISL was brought in to handle that part of the scheme. 
Also, as noted  earlier, the key facts  document / IAD recommended that consumers seek 
independent advice on the investment proposals and contract. However for information 
about the bond they were  directed to seek information from SISL.  
Given all this, it seems  to me that the clear  intention was that SISL was responsible for 
providing information about the bond. So I am doubtful whether the potential investors would 
have been directed to other  professional people for information or advice about the bond. 
Nevertheless, even if it is the case that P considers  that another professional  also failed it in 
their obligations,  then it is up to it to decide  whether to take action against either or both. In 
my view, even if another professional was involved concerning the bond, that does not 
absolve SISL of the obligations it owed to its customers  or potential customers. P considers 
that SISL failed  in its obligations to it and it is entitled to bring that complaint of it about  SISL  
to us, which it has done. 
SISL has also pointed  us to the bond schedule that was signed  by the investors.  It says that 
the schedule provided the name  and address  of the insurance company and so 
P ought to have  known that the insurer was an overseas insurer. 
Firstly, Im mindful  that SISLs key facts document was produced as part of the pre-sale 
literature, whereas the Schedule was only handed over after the investment had been 
arranged and monies paid over. And in any event, the document also did not highlight the 
risks involved adequately - for example, they did not highlight  the lack of FSCS protection. 
SISL has also argued that P would still have  invested even if the key facts document  had 
not been provided, simply in the knowledge that a deposit bond  was in place.
IPIN directed the potential investors to SISLs key facts document for information about 
NWIC and the insurance protection it provided. 
Ref: DRN42930647In the key facts  document  SISL clearly gave  the impression that it was the expert  and it told 
the consumers  that they accept the policy  as it was designed to work specifically with the 
investment proposal  developed for IPIN SES investors". 
As it happened the insurer  failed. Had the key facts  document  provided the appropriate 
warnings about  the insurer  then I do not think that P would have gone ahead with the 
scheme.  
In other  words, that the bond was in place isnt just the reason why P invested in the 
scheme. It invested in the scheme with the belief that the bond would satisfy  its needs (i.e., 
protection of their capital)  and I consider  that SISLs  key facts document which provided 
information about the bond played a key role in leading  P to believe so.
The bond  cannot be considered in a vacuum.  It seems to me that to understand whether or 
not P most likely relied on the key facts document, it is necessary to first understand the 
features of the overall scheme.  Then  consider the role played  by the deposit bond within that 
scheme. And then go on to consider  what  information was provided in relation to that 
product and whether the consumer relied  on that information.
Thus whilst I have considered the bond within the wider context of the investment - to be 
clear - the key question  I have considered is what the consumer has complained  about  - 
which is about the key facts document  provided by the SISL.  
summary
In summary  I find that:
When P decided to invest in the property scheme it was looking for a low risk investment 
with potential for good growth. 
The underlying  investments  in properties offered potential for growth  but they carried  
higher risk of capital  loss. That would most likely  have not suited Ps risk appetite.  
However the security  of capital was provided  through the bond. 
Given Ps risk appetite, I am satisfied  that it would have wanted to consider the 
information provided in relation to that bond  before  deciding to invest in the scheme. It 
was directed to look into SISLs  key facts document for information about the bond. So I 
consider it reasonable to conclude that it relied  on that information along with SISLs 
recommendation that it accept  the policy in deciding  to invest  in the scheme.  
SISL knew or ought to have known that it was its key facts  document that potential 
investors were directed to for information about the bond. So it had an obligation to 
ensure that the key facts  document was clear, fair and not misleading. For the reasons 
already explained, the key facts did not provide clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the bond.
The scheme failed  and NWIC has been  liquidated. P has suffered a loss as a result. I 
consider it more likely  than not that had SISL  provided clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the risks involved with the bond,  P would not have invested in the 
schemes. So it is fair that SISL compensate it for the loss.
fair compensation
Ref: DRN42930648In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put P in 
the position it would have  been in but for SISLs failure.
For the reasons  I have  explained above,  it is my conclusion that had the key risks of the 
bond - which  was the key component of the SES - been explained clearly,  it is more likely 
than not that P wouldnt have invested  in the SES scheme at all.
I am satisfied P was looking to invest its money, so I think  it would have invested elsewhere, 
but with capital protection. It is not possible to say precisely what it would have done 
differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair, given its objective for 
growth with capital protection.
To compensate P fairly, the business should  calculate the position  P would now be in if its 
investments had produced a return matching the average  rate for fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 
17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England.
I have chosen  this method of compensation because in my view P wanted to achieve  a 
reasonable return without risking  any of its capital. The average rate would be a fair measure 
given its circumstances  and objective. It does not mean that P would have invested only in a 
fixed rate bond.  It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained with little 
risk to their capital.
The compensation payable to P is the difference between the fair value and the actual  value 
of their investment.  If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
actual value
This means  the amount  received by P out of the scheme. 
Any amount  received by P from the scheme  should be deducted from the fair value at the 
point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation  from that point 
on.
It is not clear  whether  at all P would  receive  any further disbursement  from Scheme A. It 
seems unlikely. However, SISL  could take ownership of the investment if it wishes  to, 
provided P agrees. If it is not possible for SISL to take ownership, then it may request an 
undertaking from P that it repays to SISL  any amount it may receive from the investment in 
future.
I understand that P has commenced legal proceedings against Strathearn and that the 
subject matter of those proceedings is the same as the subject matter of this complaint. In 
such a situation  I would  normally consider dismissing the complaint without considering its 
merits unless those  proceedings had been stayed or sisted by agreement of the parties or by 
order of the court so that the matter may be considered by this service.  
This situation has been explained to Ps representative. In response, amongst other things, it 
requested agreement from Strathearn to stay the proceedings. I understand that this could 
take some  time to arrange  and therefore given my remit  to resolve complaints with minimum 
formality I think this matter can be dealt with in a pragmatic  way. So bearing  that in mind,  in 
the event that P accepts this final decision,  when making arrangements to comply with the 
award Strathearn Insurance  Services Limited may ask for evidence that P has withdrawn 
Ref: DRN42930649from the court proceedings  or if this has not yet happened to provide an appropriate  
undertaking to withdraw from any court proceedings where the subject  matter  is the same as 
the subject matter of this complaint.
fair value
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  the business  
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
The calculation should be made from the date of investment to date of my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, decision is to uphold Ps complaint.  
To put things right, Strathearn Insurance  Services  Limited  should  pay to P the fair 
compensation as set out above.   It should also pay interest at 8% simple  per year on this 
amount from date of decision  to date of settlement, if compensation is not paid within  28 
days of the business being notified  of acceptance.  Income tax may be payable  on this 
interest payment.  
Strathearn Insurance Services Limited should  provide  details of its calculation to P in a clear,  
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN429306410Provisional decision - copy
complaint
Mr R complains on behalf of P, a limited company, about a 'key facts' document produced by 
Strathearn Insurance Services Limited (SISL)  in relation to a property deposit bond.
In summary, Mr R says that SISL  failed to disclose  material information  and provide  appropriate risk 
warnings in the 'key facts 'document. He says that he decided to invest in three property investment 
schemes based solely upon  the respective 'key facts'  documents. The schemes all failed, and P lost 
its investment. Mr R says that had the full facts and risk disclosures been made in the 'key facts' 
documents, he would not have taken the decision to invest  in the schemes  and suffered financial loss. 
This provisional decision concerns Ps investment  into Scheme A. 
background
Mr R is the sole director and shareholder of P, and he represents the company  in this complaint. P is 
used by Mr R to manage his pension  funds. Mr R is a member of IPIN Global Prospects Network  
(IPIN). This is an investment network which aims to provide real estate schemes  to its members. 
IPIN is the trading name of a Spanish company  Global Prospects S.L. 
IPIN typically marketed  its schemes  as secure exit strategies (SES). As I understand it, under this 
strategy, the investors funded property developments such as hotels, student accommodation and 
residential care homes  by way of a deposit. The deposits were  initially sent to a lawyer  where they are 
maintained within an escrow facility. The developer would  draw the deposit down, when needed, to 
finance the project. The property units would  be sold by the developer before  a set date and the 
investor would  get their deposit back, along with a share of any profits  from the sale.
A key characteristic of SES schemes was the protection offered to the investors for their deposits. 
This was provided by the property developer  entering into an insurance contract  with an insurer.
So if a project failed or the developer  defaulted,  the investors - who were  named  as the beneficiaries 
of the insurance  contract - could claim any difference between the deposit paid and any money 
already returned to them.
The deposits  held in escrow facility could  be drawn down  by the developer  only after they had put this 
insurance in place  for each scheme. This insurance was called the Property Deposit Bond ('the 
bond'). P's complaint against  SISL  is in relation  to this insurance product.
P invested in Scheme A in December 2011, paying deposits totalling about £90,500. 
An insurer based in Nevis Northern & Western Insurance Company (NWIC) underwrote the bond. 
In April 2014  the company  behind Scheme A went into liquidation. P received no payment  from the 
property developer, so attempted  to claim  against the bond.  However NWIC itself entered  liquidation 
in January 2015. P complained to SISL that the insurance  had failed to protect  it in this project  along 
with the others  it had invested in. It said that had it been made aware the insurer  was not regulated 
and its money was not protected,  it wouldnt  have entered into any of the transactions. 
SISL did respond to Ps complaint.  It didnt think the complaint was one our service could consider.  
findings
I've considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im minded to uphold Ps 
complaint for the reasons  set out below.  
Ref: DRN429306411can we consider the complaint?
SISL has previously objected to this service considering  this complaint, and a number of others 
similar to it. Briefly, it has said P wasnt its customer, the deposit protection insurance wasnt a 
regulated product and that it did not carry out any regulated activity. 
This was considered at length  by us in another similar case  and SISL recognises that the jurisdiction 
issues that are relevant to this case have  been  considered  in the jurisdiction decision in that case. So 
I do not want  to repeat that here. However, for avoidance of doubt - I am satisfied that this complaint 
is within our jurisdiction. In summary I consider  that: 
(a)The property deposit bonds about which the consumers have complained are contracts  of 
insurance. 
(b)SISL carried out the regulated  activity  of arranging  (bringing about) deals in investments 
and/or making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments. 
(c)P is an eligible  complainant.
relevant considerations
I am required to determine  this complaint on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulator's  rules, guidance  and standards, and codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  
what I consider  to have been good industry practice at the time.
The FCA handbook sets out the Principles  which are a general statement  of the fundamental 
obligations of the firms it regulates, such as SISL.
Principle 7 says:
"A firm must  pay due regard to the information needs  of its clients,  and communicate information to 
them in a way which is clear  fair and not misleading"
Client is defined as a customer and it includes potential client (and so potential  customer). 
P was a potential customer, and its complaint is essentially about what SISL communicated  (or failed 
to communicate) to it through the 'key facts'  document.  So I consider that Principle 7 is relevant  here.
I also consider  that Principle  6 is relevant in this instance, which  says: "A firm must pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
IPIN provided Mr R with a promotional literature about the scheme. It was called the Investment 
Analysis Document (IAD). The IAD stated that the bond would protect  the full amount of the deposit in 
the event of a contractual default by the developer.  Investors  were  referred to a Key Facts document  
produced by SISL, which was included  in the IAD.
The IAD said:
"The property  deposit is provided by the developer in association with Strathearn
Insurance Services Ltd (see page  22)". 
Page 21 was entitled Professional  Service Providers and included the following:
PROPERTY  DEPOSIT BOND
Strathearn Insurance
Ref: DRN429306412The SES application for [Scheme C] uses a Property Deposit Bond to protect  100% of the deposit 
funds invested by SES investors  in the event  that the developer defaults  upon his obligations  within  
the applicable purchase agreements.
The Property  Deposit Bond is arranged  on behalf of the developer by Strathearn Insurance Services 
Limited. Due to the regulated nature of the product offered any direct questions relating specifically to 
the bond  aspect of the SES offering should be directed to Strathearn Insurance.
Please see Key Facts document issued  by Strathearn Insurance overleaf . 
Page 22 is where SISL's 'key facts' document can be found.
So when SISL produced  and provided  the 'key facts'  document for the IAD, it knew that the 
consumers were  being referred  to the 'key facts' for information about the bond.  So SISL had an 
obligation to ensure that the information  it provided about the bond was clear, fair, and not misleading.
was the information  provided clear, fair, and not misleading?
P says it was not. It says:
SISL did not name the insurer providing  the property deposit insurance;
SISL did not advise the insurer was not regulated by the FCA;
SISL did not advise the insurer was not covered by the FSCS;  and
P wouldnt have invested had it been aware  of the risks.  
Having considered  everything, I am minded to agree that the information  provided in the key facts 
document was not clear  or fair; and was misleading.  
There is no mention in the key facts that the insurer was NWIC. The document does not say that 
NWIC was not regulated by the FCA. And there was no warning that should  NWIC fail to meet its 
obligations, consumers  would be unable to claim their losses under the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme.  
Also, considering that this was the document that the consumers were referred to in the marketing 
literature for explanation about the bond, it would be reasonable to expect  that it explained  the key 
terms and conditions  of the policy but that wasnt the case. So I consider that the information  wasnt 
clear.
Further, the 'key facts'  document  said: "Strathearn Insurance  recommends that you accept this policy, 
as it is designed to work specifically  with the investment proposal developed for IPIN SES investors ".
However it did not highlight the potential risks as noted earlier. I consider that failing  to balance its 
recommendation to potential customers to 'accept the policy' with explanation  of the potential risks 
meant that the information  was presented in a misleading, and not in a fair way.
Overall, I consider that SISL did not provide clear, fair and not misleading  information about the 
insurance in its key facts document provided  to P.
did P rely on the 'key facts'  document?
Having concluded  that the 'key facts'  document was not clear  or fair, and was misleading, I need to 
consider how much reliance P placed on this document before it decided to make the relevant  
investment.
Mr R says that he relied solely on the key facts document before  making his decision to invest. To 
determine the likelihood of this, I have considered what it was he was looking for when he made that 
decision. 
Ref: DRN429306413P is Mr Rs pension vehicle. At the time, it had only one employee,  Mr R. The money  in the company, 
and ultimately  invested  in the scheme was from Mr Rs life savings.  He has said that at the time he 
was looking at the IPIN opportunities  savings interest was very low, and he wanted to find a product 
that would return a profit  over a fixed period, but which also offered capital security. He describes 
himself as a cautious investor, who had previously bought and sold investment  properties, but had 
never been involved with something like the schemes IPIN promoted. 
Mr R says the investments  were  attractive to him because they appeared  to be secure, passive, 
investments which would yield a return in the medium  term.  He says the security offered by the 
insurance was what made the investments attractive to him, and that but for this security,  he would 
never have  invested. 
Scheme A was the first project P invested in.  
Property schemes generally have potential for higher returns.  So I can see why Mr R considered them 
as a way to enhance his retirement fund through P. On the other hand, they tend to involve a higher 
level of risk and that would  not be suitable for his capital safety objective. However, in this instance 
the scheme was marketed as 'ultra low risk exposure' and it is clear from the promotional literature 
that the protection offered  through  the bond  was a key selling point to convince  the consumers that 
the scheme was indeed 'low risk'. So, given  its objective and circumstances, I am persuaded that P 
would not have considered  investing in the scheme without the protection  offered by the bond.
So the next question I have to consider is whether P relied on SISL's 'key facts'  document  for 
information about the bond before deciding to invest in the scheme.
It seems to me that to understand whether or not Mr R most likely relied on the key facts  document, 
it is necessary to first understand the features of the overall scheme. Then consider the role played  by 
the deposit bond within that scheme.  And then go on to consider what  information  was provided in 
relation to that product and whether the consumers relied on that information. 
Thus whilst I have considered the bond within  the wider  context of the investment  - to be clear  - the 
key question I have considered is what the consumer has complained about - which  is about the key 
facts document provided by the SISL.  
It seems to me that when  P / Mr R  was provided with the marketing literature Mr R would want to look 
at the information concerning the bond to ensure that it meets his objective. And
IPIN directed  potential investors to SISLs key facts document for information  about the insurance. 
The key facts/IAD said: 
Due to the regulated  nature  of the product  offered,  any direct questions relating specifically to the 
bond aspect of the SES offering should be directed to Strathearn  Insurance.  
This clearly portrays SISL as the entity that potential  investors  needed to look to for information  about  
the bond.  And SISL portrayed itself in the key facts as a specialised advisory  services  company 
dedicated to residential and commercial real estate markets. SISL also said The companys  
solutions are supported by leading international speciality  insurance groups. 
And SISL went on to state in the 'key facts':
"What services will Strathearn  Insurance provide you with?
Strathearn Insurance recommends that you accept this policy, as it is designed to work specifically 
with the investment proposal developed  for IPIN SES investors. Strathearn Insurance does not offer 
advice on the SES investment proposal, the associated contracts or their interpretation.
Ref: DRN429306414You are recommended to obtain independent legal  advice on all associated contracts, and the duties,  
responsibilities and obligations of the parties to the contracts."
The way this is written  I consider that a distinction was made between the insurance part of the 
scheme and the rest of the investment, and that SISL  was portrayed as the financial business  tasked 
with providing  information about the insurance.
So Im minded to find that Mr R looked at the things SISL said in the key facts document  in respect of 
the bond,  and reasonably  relied upon these representations when deciding to invest  in the scheme. 
SISL knew, or ought reasonably to have known,  that potential investors would be directed  to its key 
facts document for information about the bond. So it had an obligation to ensure that document  was 
clear, fair, and not misleading.  But, as Ive set out above,  Im not presently persuaded it did this. 
The scheme  P invested in failed and NWIC has been liquidated. P has suffered  a loss as a result.  
And, from what Ive seen  so far, I think had SISL  provided information  about  the risks involved with 
the bond  which was clear,  fair, and not misleading,  it wouldnt have invested in the scheme. So it is 
fair that SISL compensate  it for the loss.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put P in the 
position it would have been in but for SISL's failure.
For the reasons  I have  explained above, it is my conclusion that had the key risks of the bond - which 
was the key component of the SES - been  explained  clearly, it is more  likely than not that P wouldn't 
have invested in either  SES scheme at all.
As explained, I am satisfied that Mr R  was looking to invest  his money  through P, so I think he would 
have invested elsewhere through P , but with capital protection.  I say this because Mr R has clarified 
that he was specifically looking to invest in Scheme C due to the capital protection  it offered. It is not 
possible to say precisely what it would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set 
out below is fair, given  its objective for growth with capital protection.
To compensate P fairly, the business should calculate the position P would now be in if its investment 
had produced  a return matching the average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England.
I have chosen this method of compensation because in my view P wanted to achieve  a reasonable  
return without risking  any of its capital. The average rate would be a fair measure  given its 
circumstances and objective. It does not mean that P would have invested only in a fixed rate bond. It 
is the sort of investment return a consumer  could  have  obtained with little risk to their capital.
actual value
This means  the amount received by P out of the scheme. I understand it received nothing  from the 
administrators of Scheme A. P should confirm to me that is the case.
It is not clear whether at all P would receive  any disbursement from Scheme A. It seems unlikely.  
However, SISL could take ownership of the investment if it wishes to, provided P agrees. If it is not 
possible for SISL to take ownership,  then it may request an undertaking  from P that it repays  to SISL 
any amount  it may receive from the investment in future.  
fair value
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, the business  should  use 
the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity  as published by the 
Ref: DRN429306415Bank of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Apply 
those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions I should  receive  from either party by 23 February  2019, my 
provisional decision  is that this complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, Strathearn 
Insurance Services Limited should pay P compensation as set out above.
It should also pay interest at 8% simple  per year on this amount  from date of decision to date of 
settlement, if compensation is not paid within 28 days of the business being notified of acceptance. 
Income tax may be payable on this interest payment. 
Strathearn Insurance Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to P in a clear, simple 
format.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4293064