K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about his trading account  with OANDA Europe  Limited  (the firm). In the 
main, he says as follows:
The firm did not warn  him about the risks of trading, did not provide  adequate 
education or any advice about  trading, did not provide education or advice about 
protecting his capital  in the course  of trading and did not warn him that the market 
was manipulated.
As a result  of the above wrongdoings the firm defrauded  him and led him into a 
financial loss of around £30,000.
He claims  compensation  for this financial loss. 
background
The firm disputes Mr Cs complaint. In the main, it says as follows:
Mr C held two execution only accounts and neither included advisory, monitoring or 
management services; the first was opened in 2015  and closed in 2017, with a net 
loss of £10,317.45; the second  was opened  in 2017 and closed in 2018, with a net 
loss of £4,149.53; and, at all times, Mr C was solely responsible for informing his own 
trading decisions,  monitoring  his trades and managing his account.
In response to its appropriateness  assessment  in 2017 Mr C said he had two years 
previous trading experience in which he had placed  2,500  forex  trades, 10 Contract 
for Differences  (CFD) trades and five other  leveraged derivatives trades. In addition,  
in order to open his accounts he confirmed (and had to confirm) reading and 
agreeing to its Appropriateness warning statement.
It provided Mr C with a significant volume  of risk warnings  (about the complex nature 
of the traded  products  and their associated high risks)  during the account opening 
process and thereafter. These were in the terms of business and Risk Warning 
Disclosure agreed by Mr C. A warning in the account opening process included  
CFDs are complex instruments and come with a high risk of losing money rapidly 
due to leverage 77% of retail investor  accounts lose money  when trading with this 
provider. 
It provided Mr C with a significant volume  of educational material  during the account  
opening process and thereafter,  and the material  was always  accessible to him. This 
included an online education portal (which covered, in written  and video formats,  
areas including Getting Started,  Tools and Strategies and Capital Management). 
It also has evidence of some  of the risk management related emails sent to and 
opened by Mr C between 2015  and 2017.
In terms of capital management  tools, its platform  made  such tools (including  stop 
loss orders, take profit  orders and automatic margin close outs)  accessible to Mr C 
and information  about using them was within  the education  portal.
It did not and does not manipulate  market  prices. Its Order Execution  Policy  with 
which Mr C agreed   showed that its prices were derived from a blend of numerous  
liquidity providers. 
All of its literature was written  in plain English and would have been understood by 
Mr C.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be upheld  
 for broadly  the same  reasons as those given by the firm. He noted submissions that Mr C 
had made  about  wider  market matters and wider  alleged  practices  but said they are matters 
Ref: DRN48517342beyond this services  remit. Mr C disagreed  with this outcome. He retained his allegations, 
his claim for compensation and his submissions  about wider market  matters. The matter  was 
referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I too note Mr Cs submissions on a number of concerns he has about  wider market matters  
and his allegations of malpractices within those  matters. These issues  also appear to relate 
to his assertion  that he has been defrauded and has been a victim of financial abuse. My 
remit does not extend  to addressing such matters  so I have not done so. They appear to be 
regulation related issues and this service is not the financial  services  regulator. My remit is to 
address Mr Cs specific complaint (and the issues within it), and I do so as follows:
Appropriateness of Mr Cs trading accounts
This matter is implicit within Mr Cs complaint,  given  what appears to be his overall  assertion 
that the accounts  and the trading  within them  were  inappropriate for him, for the reasons 
he has submitted. Appropriateness is assessed  on the basis  of information from a client to a 
firm about whether the client has sufficient knowledge and experience to understand the 
risks involved in the service or product(s) offered  by the firm. 
According to the regulators  rules a firm is not required to notify its client if the assessment 
concludes that its service or a trading product(s) is appropriate. However  it is obliged  to warn 
its client where its service or a trading product(s) is not appropriate.  Its warning can be in a 
standardised format.  If, despite the warning, the client wishes to proceed with the service or 
product(s) a firm has discretion to engage  in providing the service or product(s).
The firm has referred to information it says it considered in assessing  appropriateness for 
Mr Cs account. I consider that the information   as summarised above and about  Mr Cs 
prior trading experience   sits within the context of Mr Cs statement to this service that he 
has a total of over 15 years trading experience  in which he has lost around £50,000 
(including the amount he claims against the firm and amounts he claims against other 
firms).
In addition or in the alternative, I am satisfied that the contents of the firms Appropriateness 
warning statement, which had to be agreed  before Mr C could open his accounts, were 
enough to serve as confirmation of its standardised inappropriateness warning. 
Having issued this warning and in the face of Mr C deciding to proceed with the accounts 
nevertheless, the firm retained discretion  to either  turn down his applications or to accept 
them. It chose to do the latter and based  on available  evidence  of Mr Cs trading  
experience at the time and his agreement with the warning   I am not persuaded that it 
exercised its discretion  wrongly by doing  so. Overall  and on balance, I do not consider that 
the firm was wrong to accept Mr Cs applications for his accounts.
Risk Warnings
The balance of available evidence shows that these warnings were  issued  to Mr C and 
agreed by him as part of the account opening process and that the account could not have 
Ref: DRN48517343been opened without such agreement. The risk warnings included  information about the 
complex and leveraged  nature of CFD, forex and spread betting trading and they were 
presented in the Appropriateness warning  statement, the terms of business and the 
dedicated Risk Warning Disclosure  all agreed as part of the account opening process and 
accessible thereafter.
Mr Cs accounts were  based on an execution only service, in which the firm held no 
responsibility for advising on his trading decisions,  monitoring  his trading (or account) or 
managing his trading (or account). He had sole responsibility in these  respects, including  
responsibility for awareness  and management  of exposure to risks. The account opening 
risk statement, as quoted  above, about  77% of retail accounts losing money would have  
added emphasis to the other  risk warnings that were given to and agreed by Mr C at the 
time. Overall and on balance, I consider that Mr C was adequately warned about  high 
trading risks at the outset  of his accounts. Thereafter, the firm was not obliged  to provide risk 
management for his individual trades and/or accounts.
Trading and Risk Management Education
There is evidence of a comprehensive online education portal to which Mr C had access. In 
the context of an execution only service,  the body of information within the portal  including  
information about the different traded products, information about getting started with trades, 
information about capital management and information about  risk management  was 
available for customers  like Mr C to use, learn  and understand before trading and to use as 
reference points  as they were trading. There is also evidence of demo accounts that were  
available for trading practice before a customer began real trading.
Mr C might say more  information could have been made available. However, that argument 
does not automatically  mean that the information  available in the education portal  was poor 
or insufficient. I consider that it was sufficient and understandable (in plain English). Mr Cs 
reference to a total of over 15 years of trading experience would also suggest that he was 
familiar with or would have understood the educational material available (in 2015 and 
onwards). Overall and on balance, I do not consider that the firms  trading  related 
educational material  was insufficient,  poor or inaccessible.
Fraud and Market Manipulation
I respect the strength of feeling with which Mr C has made allegations in these respects, but 
the balance of evidence does not support either  allegation. 
I have not seen evidence of Mr Cs money  being unlawfully misappropriated and I am not 
persuaded by the argument  that his losses were caused by the matters of deception he 
alleges against the firm. With regards to the latter and as I have addressed above, the risks 
of such losses were  sufficiently (and repeatedly)  declared to him at the outset,  so they were 
not concealed from him and he does not appear to have been deceived  in this respect.
In terms of market manipulation, the agreed Order Execution Policy states that the trade 
prices on the firms  platform  were ultimately dependent  on prices from external Liquidity 
Providers  and in the case of forex pairs its prices  were  based on prices  from third party  
market participants for the relevant forex pairs. I have not seen evidence that trade pricing to 
the contrary of these provisions was applied by the firm in practice and I have also not seen 
evidence that the firm manipulated its trade prices as alleged by Mr C. 
Ref: DRN48517344my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision 
before 23 November 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4851734