K820x#14complaint
Ms M, a director of M, a limited company, has complained that The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society  Limited (NFU) wrongly  declined Ms claim under a commercial  
insurance policy for losses caused  by its tenants  illegal activity.
background
M let a property to a wood recycling company. The tenant stored  a large  amount  of waste  
material on the property.  The waste was later found  to be hazardous.
The Environment Agency  issued  a notice requiring the tenant to remove  the waste.  But the 
tenant went into liquidation. So it appeared M was liable to remove  the waste. M made a 
claim to NFU for the cost of clearing  the site and repairing damage to a building. 
NFU said Ms policy didnt cover costs caused  by a tenant acting  illegally.
M appointed a solicitor  to challenge this. The solicitor disputed  that thered been  an illegal 
activity. It also said that NFUs agent should  have advised M about  the exclusion and made 
more detailed enquiries of the tenant  before providing cover.  Ms M also pointed  out that NFU 
had paid out previously in respect of an earlier claim involving an illegal activity. She wanted 
NFU to settle the claim  and pay Ms legal  costs.
NFU didnt accept that it had treated  M unfairly or unreasonably. But it made  a payment of 
£10,000 towards Ms repair costs  as a goodwill gesture.
Ms M brought Ms complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold  it. She didnt think  
the policy covered  any of the costs M was claiming for.
As Ms M on behalf of M didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the policy wording. It covers  loss and damage caused by various  things. But 
there are also exclusions that apply  to the cover. One of these is for any damage caused by 
or in connection  with the property  being  used  by M, its tenant  or a lawful  visitor  for 
carrying  out an illegal  activity.  
So I need to consider whether the tenant  was carrying out an illegal activity.
The letter from the Environment Agency permitting the tenants operations said:
However you should be aware that this/these  activities is/are only lawful  where you:
- comply  with the conditions of the exemption(s) that you have registered (these conditions 
can be seen at http://www.environment-agency.gov.uk/exemptions) 
I think the Environment Agency clearly thought that the tenant had broken a condition 
attached to its permission because it served an enforcement notice. It said that there was 
significantly more waste on the site than was permitted. So, taking into account the 
Ref: DRN42949462Environment Agencys  warning quoted  above, I think  its fair for NFU to say that the tenant 
was carrying out an illegal  activity.  I appreciate  that the tenant  hasnt been  prosecuted  for 
this and found guilty of a breach. But I dont think  thats necessary  to prove that an activity 
was in fact illegal. It follows that Im satisfied that NFUs  decision  to decline the claim was 
fair.
The exclusion for illegal activity is a common term in policies designed for landlords. I dont 
think it required further explanation at the time the policy was sold to M. 
I can see that Ms M contacted NFUs agent because wood recycling was a new activity  for 
one of Ms tenants  and she didnt know whether NFU would find it acceptable. The agent 
spoke to the tenant to find out more  about  its business. He was particularly interested  to 
assess the likely fire risk. I think this was so that he understood the nature of the risk better 
rather than providing  any assurance to Ms M that the M would be completely covered for all 
risks arising from the letting. The fact that the agent recommended a policy  which doesnt 
cover the loss that M has suffered doesnt necessarily mean  that he acted inappropriately.  
Ms previous  claim is different from this claim in several key respects,  including  the fact that 
it involved a claim from a third party. I dont think the fact that NFU chose to settle that claim 
on a without prejudice  basis means that it ought to settle the current claim. 
I can understand why M took professional advice in connection with the claim, particularly in 
view of its complexity. However,  I dont usually require financial businesses  to reimburse the 
cost of this. Theres also the fact that Ive concluded that the decision to reject  the claim was 
fair. And I wouldnt require NFU to reimburse M for any costs its incurred as a result of a fair 
decision to decline the claim.
Overall, Im not persuaded that NFU has treated M unfairly  or unreasonably.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M on behalf  of 
M to accept or reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4294946