K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs W are the owners of a company Ill call A. They  complain on the companys 
behalf that TSB Bank  plc had a system issue which meant they couldnt make  their online 
payments. 
Background
A had a business  account with TSB. On 20 April 2018, Mr and Mrs W tried to log onto their 
internet banking as they needed  to pay an invoice  to their website provider which was due 
that day. The website was a key source  of bookings and advertising  for A. However, Mr and 
Mrs W werent able to log on as TSB were  upgrading their internet  banking  systems between  
20 April to 22 April 2018.
They were  also concerned as they were going  abroad on holiday  a couple of days  later and 
not due to return until the second week in May. Mr and Mrs W contacted  the internet 
provider to see if there was an alternative  payment method they could use. But the only way 
they could pay the invoice  was via internet banking or making a 60-mile  round trip to their 
local branch to pay in money and manually make  the transfer  which theyve said wasnt  
possible as A was fully booked. So, they tried numerous times over the following days to log 
onto their internet  banking  and telephone  banking to make the required payment. 
Around the same time, Mr and Mrs W also needed  to submit their end of year accounts so 
they continued to try their internet banking as they needed access to their bank  statements  
to submit the information. However, due to a technical error, the TSB internet banking  
system wasnt  working as efficiently as possible  meaning some customers received error 
messages and werent able to log on if too many other customers were  already using it. 
Mr and Mrs W said that because of the internet banking issue,  they couldnt  pay their web-
site provider invoice  or obtain the information  they needed to be able to submit  their end of 
year accounts before  they went on holiday.  Mr and Mrs W didnt feel comfortable using their 
online banking whilst  they were  abroad, so it wasnt until 10 May 2018  they were  able to 
make the journey to their local branch to manually  pay their website  invoice. It was also 
when they returned home  that they became aware that As website domain had been frozen 
whilst the invoice remained unpaid  meaning potential customers  were unable  to make any 
bookings for the three-week period.
As well as needing to pay their website invoice, Mr and Mrs W still needed to submit  As 
annual accounts  which they hadnt been  able to do before they left. Although Mr and Mrs W 
were able to log into their internet banking from 10 May 2018, the online accounting package 
they used to retrieve information from their statements still wasnt  working.  Mr and Mrs W 
contacted TSB several times about this, but TSB said they werent able to resolve the 
problem or explain  why this was happening.  As Mr and Mrs W couldnt  use their online 
accounting package  as expected, they couldnt submit  their end of year tax return and had to 
pay their accountant to do this manually  for them instead. 
So, Mr and Mrs W complained to TSB. They said theyd received unpaid  letters  from As 
providers and received various  late and default  fees. They also explained that they hadnt  
been able to pay their website  domain provider which meant  the site had been  taken down 
and theyd lost business because of this. They also said that because they couldnt use their 
online accountancy package, theyd had to pay their accountant extra to do this for them.
Ref: DRN41243352TSB upheld  the complaint in part. They said they were sorry that due to the system upgrade 
Mr and Mrs W hadnt been  able to access their internet  banking  as expected, meaning 
theyd received unpaid letters and late fee charges - so they refunded the £30 late fee Mr 
and Mrs W provided  evidence  of. TSB also acknowledged Mr and Mrs Ws claims that they 
couldnt export their accounting information,  and that this had potentially  affected their credit  
file. So, they said theyd look into this further once theyd received supporting evidence. 
However, TSB didnt  agree that they were  responsible for the website domain being taken 
down and they felt Mr and Mrs W hadnt done enough to mitigate their losses. 
TSB said that Mr and Mrs W had received the website provider invoice nearly  two weeks 
earlier saying payment needed  to be made  by 20 April 2018. They also said theyd 
communicated to their customers during the week of 17 April 2018 that services would be 
restricted from 4pm on 20 April 2018  until 6pm on 22 April 2018,  so they felt Mr and Mrs W 
could have done more to make sure their domain invoice had been paid. However, they did 
acknowledge their service had been below  what they expected, so they credited Mr and 
Mrs Ws account with £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, and a further 
£51 for related expenses such as call charges. Mr and Mrs W didnt agree and asked this 
service to look into their complaint. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that it wasnt  in dispute 
that TSB had made a mistake.  However, she felt that Mr and Mrs W had two weeks to pay 
their invoice from the date they received it, and they would have been aware of the 
consequences of not paying  this when it was due. She also felt that TSB had given  sufficient 
notice that their system  would be upgraded from 4pm on the 20 April 2018 and couldnt be 
held responsible for Mr and Mrs W not being  aware of this. 
She also didnt think  it was fair to hold TSB responsible for Mr and Mrs W not being able to 
pay the invoice  by an alternative  method until mid-May when they returned  from their 
holiday. The investigator also said that although  Mr and Mrs W had experienced problems in 
submitting their accounting information,  they werent using an accounting package  provided 
by TSB, so they couldnt be held responsible for this. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree.  They  said theyd  done as much  as possible to pay the website 
invoice when it was due, but theyd  been fully booked and unable to leave their business. 
They also said theyd tried to use telephone  banking but hadnt been  able to get through and 
because they were leaving early in the morning for their holiday,  they hadnt  been able to 
visit the TSB branch before leaving.  So they asked for an ombudsman  to review their 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
Website closure and loss of rental income
Mr and Mrs W have  told us that they werent  aware  their internet banking wasnt  going to be 
available from 20 April 2018  because they dont use their internet banking  that often and 
they dont use the branch as its too far away. They  said that they had a diary reminder for 
them to pay their website  invoice on the 20 April - as they usually do. But had they known, 
Ref: DRN41243353the system wouldnt be working as expected they would have paid their website invoice 
before this date.
However, TSB said they contacted their customers in advance to let them know about the 
planned maintenance, so it isnt their fault Mr and Mrs W werent aware. Looking at the 
evidence Ive seen  that TSB updated  their telephone  lines a couple of weeks before 20th 
April to advise customers the system  wouldnt be available. They  also sent email messages 
to their customers around the 17 April 2018 to advise that they were planning an upgrade to 
our systems this weekend.  So please plan ahead as internet banking system wouldnt  be 
available from 4pm on 20 April 2018 to 6pm on 22 April 2018. 
TSB have  also told us they then followed this up with a text message 48 hours  before the 
system outage as a reminder.  They also confirmed  they put up signs  up in their local 
branches  although I recognise this wouldnt have been as useful  to Mr and Mrs W, as 
theyve already explained they dont often visit their closest branch due to the distance. 
So based  on what Ive seen, I think TSB did try to contact their customers  to advise  them of 
the system outage. So, I dont think theyve acted  unreasonably. I also cant  hold TSB 
responsible because Mr and Mrs W didnt  receive  the email TSB sent,  or see the 
notifications via internet  banking,  text messages or the local branch. Ive also seen that Mr 
and Mrs W accessed their personal internet banking around  lunchtime on 16 April 2018 and 
around 10:00 on 20 April 2018, so I think it was possible for them to pay their outstanding 
invoice at either of these  times before the internet  banking became unavailable. 
In addition to this, looking at the evidence available, I can see that Mr and Mrs W received 
the invoice from the website  domain provider on 5 April 2018,  meaning they had 15 days to 
pay the invoice  before it was due on 20 April  and their internet banking  became 
unavailable. I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs W said they had a diary reminder to pay the 
invoice on the due date, and that this was the same date they always  used. But looking at 
the invoice from the previous year, I can see although it was due on 20 April 2017  it was 
paid on the 19 April. So, I think its reasonable to believe  there was some flexibility  on the 
date Mr and Mrs W would  make this payment.  
I can see that Mr and Mrs W were made aware by the website domain provider on Monday 
23 April 2018 that As details on the website had already lapsed as the invoice hadnt been  
paid by the due date.  Mrs W acknowledged  this email on 24 April and said she intended to 
pay the invoice  that day. However,  Mrs W didnt make the payment as planned and 
subsequently contacted  the website provider on 25 April to see if she could use an 
alternative payment  method. She received a reply shortly after to explain this wasnt  
possible. 
I recognise that Mr and Mrs W have explained  that A was fully booked, and they were  
extremely busy. I also acknowledge  that Mr and Mrs W said they were  on holiday the 
following week and therefore  werent  able to visit their nearest branch. However, they were 
made aware  on the Monday that As website had lapsed, and by Wednesday theyd been  
told a card payment  wasnt possible to pay the invoice, so they had several days  before 
leaving for their holiday where  they could have made the trip to the local branch. 
Given the impact on A by not paying  the invoice, I think its reasonable to believe that after 
Mr and Mrs W were advised  that As website  was down, they would have made the time to 
travel to their local branch  to make the required invoice payment and mitigate any potential  
losses. I also acknowledge that Mr and Mrs W said they didnt feel comfortable making the 
Ref: DRN41243354invoice payment online whilst they were abroad, but it was their decision to further  delay the 
re-instatement of As website domain for the period they were on holiday. So, based  on what  
Ive seen, I dont  think  its reasonable  to hold TSB responsible for the time As website was 
unavailable and I wont be asking them to do anything  more.
Unable to access accounting  system
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs W have told us that they were unable to access their internet 
banking and access their account information.  And that because  of the system issue, they 
werent able to digitally provide their accounting information and had to ask their accountant 
to complete extra work so they could  submit their accounts on time  which cost them an 
extra £780.
However, TSB have  explained that it wasnt the system issue  that caused this. They  have 
told us that as part of the upgrade, their website security ID  which provides a secure 
website for its customers  was refreshed.  They also said that because of this, its likely the 
software Mr and Mrs W were using  to complete their accounts  didnt recognise the change in 
security code, so it wasnt able to connect  in the same way it had previously. And based on 
what Ive seen from both parties, I think that this is a plausible  explanation. 
I recognise this must have  been frustrating for Mr and Mrs W, as they were trying to submit 
their accounting information  in the way they usually would. However, TSB are entitled to 
complete any system  upgrades that they feel are necessary to run their business. I 
acknowledge that Mrs W said she contacted TSB who couldnt  tell her what  the problem was 
with their system and her accounting one which added to the delay and caused her further 
issues, but I dont  think  this was unreasonable. 
I say this because,  I dont  think  its fair to expect  TSBs call handers  to understand that there  
could be an issue with how a third-party  system interacts with their own. And as I havent 
seen any evidence which shows the accountancy  system used  by Mr and Mrs W was 
endorsed or recommended  by TSB, I cant reasonably hold them  responsible for the 
systems not working  together in the way Mr and Mrs W wanted   just because  it had 
previously worked in that way.
Mr and Mrs W told us they had intermittent  problems with the internet banking  so they could 
access the information they needed for the accounts i.e. bank  statements.  But because the 
accounting package  wasnt  working,  theyd had to obtain the information they needed  
manually  which was time consuming.  I recognise that this must have been frustrating for 
Mr and Mrs W and impacted  their time undertaking tasks  for A. However, I cant reasonably 
hold TSB responsible for how their internet  banking  system interacts with an accounting 
package that they dont  own or endorse. So, I dont think its fair to hold them responsible  for 
Mr and Mrs Ws additional accounting  costs.   
I recognise that Mr and Mrs W feel strongly about this and theyll be disappointed  with my 
decision. But based on everything Ive seen, I think TSB have done enough to put things 
right. So, I wont be asking them to do anything more
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN41243355Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 October  2020.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4124335