K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mrs T applied for a credit card in June 2008  and bought the PPI policy over the phone 
around a month later.
Mrs T says she doesnt remember the phone  call but doesnt think  it wouldve been made 
clear to her the PPI was optional. And she says she didnt need it because  she had cover 
under another policy. Shes  also told us subsequently she had two medical conditions when 
she bought the policy. 
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Ts complaint  didnt uphold it. Mrs T disagrees and so her 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint.  I know  this will disappoint her 
but I hope the reasons  Im about to give help her to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
I think its likely Santander made it reasonably clear to Mrs T she had a choice about PPI 
and she agreed  to it. From information Santander has sent us, the PPI was sold to Mrs T 
over the phone when she called up to activate her card.  So she already  had the card when  
she bought the PPI  and, because of this, I think its likely she wouldve known she had a 
choice about it. Also, although Santander  doesnt  have a call recording  which doesnt 
surprise me after more  than 10 years  it has sent us a call script it says its representative 
wouldve used. This script makes  it clear the PPI is optional and a separate product to the 
credit card. While its possible the representative  who spoke with Mrs T didnt follow  the 
script, I think its more likely than not he or she did. From all of this information,  I think its 
likely Mrs T agreed  to the PPI knowing she didnt  have  to  even, though, understandably 
after so long, Mrs T doesnt remember this.
From the information Ive got, I dont think Santander recommended  the PPI to Mrs T. So it 
didnt need to make sure it was right for her. But it did need to give her enough clear 
information about the PPI for her to be able to decide  herself  if it was right for her.
I think its unlikely  if the call script  was followed   that Santander gave Mrs T all the clear  
information it shouldve  about some features of the policy  like, for example, its true cost. 
But that doesnt mean I must uphold Mrs Ts complaint. Rather I must think about whether, if 
Santander had given Mrs T all the clear  information  it shouldve,  it wouldve changed her 
decision to go ahead  with it. From the information  Mrs T has given us about her 
circumstances at the time and the policy details  Ive got, I dont think its likely clearer 
information wouldve  changed her decision.  I say this for the following reasons:
Mrs T was eligible  for the cover. 
Ref: DRN49646962After our adjudicator sent out her first view, Mrs T told us she had two health  
conditions when  she bought the PPI  she says she missed  the question  we asked 
her about this earlier. I have very little detail about Mrs Ts conditions.  But the policy 
she bought was unlikely to cover  her for them, at least for the first 12 months. 
I can see the call script  Santander says its representative wouldve followed when 
Mrs T bought the PPI asks if a consumer has had a medical condition  in the last 12 
months. And it states  they wont be covered for it for the first 12 months of the policy. 
Im not sure these statements wouldve drawn  this exclusion to Mrs Ts attention  as 
clearly as it shouldve  been. But ultimately  I dont need to decide this point. Thats  
because Mrs T has subsequently told us she was on medication for the conditions 
and so didnt see them as a problem. So, from what Mrs T says, I dont think  
knowing more about the exclusion for known health conditions wouldve stopped her 
going ahead with the policy.  And from the information I have about Mrs Ts other  
circumstances at the time, I dont think there  was anything else that wouldve stopped 
her claiming  on the policy if shed  needed  to.
Mrs T says she got some sick pay at the time and had some savings, as well as PPI 
on her mortgage. But the PPI couldve  paid out on top of her sick pay and left any 
savings intact  for the future. It was up to Mrs T to review  her situation and decide  
whether or not to have  the PPI. And as she was paying for it monthly,  she could 
cancel it if at any stage  her circumstances changed or she no longer wanted it. The 
the PPI Mrs T had on her mortgage  would only have covered that  it wouldnt have 
extended to her credit card.
So, all in all, I dont  think Santander mis-sold  Mrs T the PPI.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs T about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mrs T, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that is fair in this case
Ref: DRN49646963my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs T any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4964696