K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 2003  alongside a loan.
background
In May 2019, I issued  my provisional  decision. In it I explained why I wasnt intending to 
uphold this complaint but that I also said I was intending  to ask Santander to pay back  to 
Mr H any commission  and profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. A 
copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms  part of this final decision.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they might want me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.
my findings
Ive re- considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.
Neither party had anything further  to add to what I said in my provisional decision  so I see 
no reason to depart from my findings.
Fort the reasons  given  in my provisional decision Ive decided that Santander  doesnt  have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because : 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mr H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ref: DRN42039872my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. So Santander UK Plc does  not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN42039873COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy in 2003 alongside a loan.
background
Mr H took out a loan of £5000 for a term of five years in a branch  of Santander in 2003. At the same 
time he took out a PPI policy. This policy  would  have  covered him if he couldnt work through accident 
or sickness or if he lost his job. It cost £18.15 per month and would have paid out the monthly  benefit 
of £121.76. If he lost his job, it would have paid for up to 12 months or he returned to work whichever 
was sooner and until his return to work or his loan was repaid if he was off because  of an accident  or 
sickness.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint. He said that the costs werent clear.  If Mr H would have  
realised the costs he wouldnt have taken  out the policy. Santander  disagreed with this view and 
asked that the complaint  be referred  to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but as things stand I dont think  the PPI was mis-sold.  I will explain why.
Santander had to give Mr H a fair choice - Mr H says he was never  advised that PPI was being  added 
to his account - it was added without his knowledge. So first of all Ive looked at whether Mr H was 
given an option to buy the PPI.
Santander is unable  to provide me with the actual paperwork Mr H signed when  he applied for his 
loan and the PPI but it has provided samples of the paperwork it says he would have seen. This is not 
unusual as so much time has passed since the time of the sale and businesses arent required to 
keep records indefinitely.
Ive looked at the sample application form and I think it more likely  represented  something similar to 
what Mr H saw. On it Mr H had the option to choose PPI or leave it so I think  its likely he chose the 
PPI and knew  he could refuse it if he didnt want  it. I also think Mr H would have had to complete a 
direct debit form for the PPI so he could have questioned his payment  at any time with Santander and 
cancelled it without penalty  if he no longer wanted it. Overall I think Mr H likely  had a choice about  
whether or not to take out the cover and he chose it knowing he could  refuse it if he didnt want it.
I think  Santander  advised  Mr H to buy the PPI. That meant  it had to make sure it was suitable for him. 
It also had to give him clear enough information so he could decide for himself whether or not to take 
it out.
Looking at Mr Hs circumstances  I think the policy was suitable for him I say this because he was 
eligible for it and wouldnt have been affected  by any of the main  limitations and exclusions the policy 
didnt cover such as an unusual employment situation or a pre-existing medical condition.  So I think  
he likely could  have  made a successful claim  on it if he needed  to.
Mr H says he already  had sufficient cover from work  available to cover the repayments if he was off 
work sick. He says he had over six months sick pay and savings of around three months. But this 
policy would have paid out in addition  to anything he had by way of sick pay from work and in addition 
Ref: DRN42039874to it and it could have meant  he could leave  his savings intact or use them  for other important living  
expenses if things  went  wrong. So I cant say the policy  was unsuitable as I think  it would have  been 
useful if things  went wrong.
Theres nothing to make me think the cost was unaffordable or he had a particular  need at the time to 
keep his costs down.
Santander also had to give Mr H enough clear  information.  Mr H says the exclusions and limitations 
werent explained  and the true cost of the cover werent made clear. This was a regular premium  
policy so there was no interest  accruing on it and he could have cancelled it at any time without 
penalty. Our adjudicator  thought  the costs werent clear. But I think  its more  likely Santander would  
have sent the loan agreement  which contained a breakdown of the loan and the cost of the PPI policy 
separately. And I think Mr H would  have  had to sign the paperwork. As Mr H was taking on a new 
financial commitment I think its more likely  he would have read the forms he was signing.
Which means I intend  to decide that Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr H.
But I intend to find Santander will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because:  
Santander got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have  told Mr H about that. Because Santander  didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically  offered to pay back  the amount  of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
Ive taken everything Mr H has said as well as what he has said about not being  told he could shop 
around for any alternative products available  on the open market but Santander werent obliged to tell 
Mr H about  other  alternative products so this doesnt make a difference to my decision.
what the business needs to do
Santander has to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit  share  it got that was more than 50% of 
the PPI premium. Santander should also pay back  to Mr H any extra  interest he paid because  of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr H the extra he paid each month because  the commission and profit 
share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should  also pay Mr H 8%* simple  
interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
not intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Im intending to find the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold   so 
Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Im intending to find Santander UK Plc does have  to pay back  to Mr H any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4203987