K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about the way Nationwide Building  Society handled things when he 
attempted to make  an international  payment.
background
Mr B called Nationwide in April 2018 and asked  about transferring money from his 
Nationwide bank account to an account  in Kenya. Mr B says he wanted to purchase  a car 
with the money.  The advisor explained the process  but didnt tell Mr B hed need a card 
reader to complete  the transfer.
A few days  later, Mr B called Nationwide to make the transfer. Nationwide couldnt  process  
the transfer for him  it had to be completed online or in branch, but the advisor said hed 
help Mr B with the online form.
During the phone  call, Mr B asked a lot of questions and eventually  got through  to the final 
stages of the transfer. At this point, Mr B learned he needed a card reader to complete the 
transfer. Mr B was on holiday in Kenya and therefore didnt have a card reader.  The advisor 
told Mr B hed try and complete it for him, and that hed call him back. Mr B didnt receive  a 
call back, and when  he called Nationwide the next day, they explained they couldnt 
complete it.
Mr B raised a complaint  and Nationwide explained  hed get a response  within  3 working  
days. Mr B didnt receive a response  in that time, and he made several further phone calls to 
Nationwide from Kenya which he says cost him around £10 each  time.
Nationwide sent their final response through secure  messaging online  but they didnt  tell 
Mr B. So he didnt see the final response until around  a month later when he brought the 
complaint to our service. 
Nationwide upheld Mr Bs complaint.  They  admitted they made a mistake  on the initial  call 
when Mr B asked about the transfer,  and recognised  further errors when Mr B didnt receive 
a call back as promised.  So they paid him £75 compensation  and said they were also willing  
to pay for the phone calls Mr B had made to them if he could show  evidence of the costs. 
Mr B wasnt  happy with that offer, and Nationwide increased their offer to a total of £200  
compensation and £50 for the phone calls.
The investigator who looked into Mr Bs complaint didnt think  Nationwide had offered 
enough. He thought Mr B had lost out on interest by the money being in the Nationwide  
account. And he didnt  think the compensation was enough because Mr B had lost out on 
buying a car. So he recommended compensation of £300, £50 for the phone calls and the 
loss of interest to be paid to Mr B.
Nationwide didnt agree.  They thought the compensation  offer of £200, plus the £50 for the 
phone calls was enough. And they said Mr B chose to keep his money in the account, so 
they didnt think  they should be held responsible for any loss of interest.
In December 2018, I issued a provisional decision.  In it, I said;
the transfer and complaint
Ref: DRN44981542Theres no dispute Mr B was given the wrong information during his initial  phone  call in 
April 2018. While Nationwide admit he was given the wrong information, they still think Mr B 
should have known he needed  a card reader to complete  the international transfer. 
Nationwide have provided the account  terms and conditions which  state a card reader may 
be required  for certain transactions. But they also recognise the online transfer  screen 
doesnt tell customers  until the end that a card reader  is needed.  
Ive considered the terms and conditions and I dont think its entirely clear a card reader is 
definitely needed for international payments.  Ive also reviewed Nationwides website and 
while it explains customers will need certain information, such as the recipients International 
Bank Account Number (IBAN)  and account  number, it doesnt  state  a card reader is needed 
to complete the transfer. Taking  this into account,  alongside  the telephone call Mr B had with 
Nationwide querying  the transfer, I think its reasonable Mr B was expecting to be able to 
make the transfer  without  a card reader.
I also recognise Mr B was told by the Nationwide advisor when the payment couldnt  be 
completed, that hed try to send it through. And the advisor told Mr B hed receive a call 
back. Mr B didnt receive that call, and I understand why this would have caused him further 
distress. It was a large transfer,  and Mr B needed the money to purchase a car he wanted.
When Mr B raised a complaint, he was again  told by Nationwide that hed receive  a 
response within 3 working days.  But he didnt. While Nationwide recognise this, they did 
respond to the complaint within the timeframe theyre entitled to (eight weeks). However, 
given Mr Bs experience,  I dont  doubt  this caused further concern and distress for him.
Mr B called Nationwide a number of times to chase  the response to his complaint. And when 
Nationwide had sent their response  through secure messaging online, they failed to tell 
Mr B. I appreciate Mr B could have logged on to his online banking and seen the message, 
however I do think it would have been helpful  if Nationwide told him how theyd sent their 
response. Especially  as Mr B was calling to ask for updates.
the difference in interest
The investigator thinks Nationwide  should pay the difference in interest Mr B has lost out on 
by keeping his money  in the Nationwide account.  But I disagree. Mr Bs money was kept in 
an account which holds  an interest  rate of 5% for balances up to £2,500. I recognise Mr B 
had significantly more  money in the account;  however  I do think he could have moved  his 
money to an account  with a better  rate if he wanted  to. I havent seen Mr B attempted  to do 
this  and I havent seen  anything to suggest Mr B had an account which held a better rate 
of interest.  So I dont think its reasonable to ask Nationwide to pay him anything  for this.
further impact
Mr B says he had to borrow money from elsewhere  because the transfer  didnt go through. 
Mr B hasnt provided us any evidence  of this, or if he was charged for borrowing that money, 
so I cant fairly hold Nationwide responsible. 
I appreciate Mr B says he lost out on the purchase of the car. While I dont doubt Mr B, I 
again havent seen any evidence of this. So while I appreciate the impact  Mr B says this had, 
I cant fairly ask Nationwide to increase their offer of compensation on this point alone.
Ref: DRN44981543Mr B was on holiday in Kenya while the events leading up to his complaint took place. I 
appreciate why this would have caused  his holiday to be affected. He spent a large  amount 
of time trying  to sort things out, and made numerous phone calls.
compensation
Taking everything into account,  I consider  this has been very stressful for Mr B. He was told 
the incorrect information, which resulted in him not being able to make an international 
transfer as he wished. He was then promised a call back and didnt receive one. And spent 
time chasing Nationwide for a response  to his complaint  while on holiday.
So I thought  a reasonable amount of compensation would be £300.  And I thought 
Nationwide should  pay Mr B £50 for the phone  calls he had to make to them  from Kenya.
Mr B responded to my provisional decision.  In summary, he said:
Nationwide didnt  ever provide  Mr B with a card reader,  so he wouldnt have been  
able to transfer the money.
Nationwide didnt  tell Mr B hed need  a card reader when he phoned  up to ask about 
making the transfer. And hes dissatisfied  the staff didnt know  how to complete the 
transfer.
He did move the funds out of the account in July when  he was able to  so he feels  
he should be reimbursed for the loss of interest.
Nationwide didnt  call him back when they promised, nor did they communicate  with 
him effectively throughout his complaint.
He was unable  to purchase his dream car, and lost out on additional spending money 
because the transfer  couldnt be made.
Nationwide responded to my provisional decision and accepted  my recommendations to pay 
Mr B £300  in total for the compensation. Plus £50 for the phone  calls he had to make.
After considering Mr B and Nationwides further comments, I issued  another provisional 
decision. I said;
compensation
Ive considered Mr Bs further comments.  I appreciate he didnt have a card reader so the 
transfer couldnt have been made  while he was in Kenya. While I dont doubt this caused  
him distress, I havent seen anything to show Mr B suffered from not having a card reader 
until he tried to transfer this amount of money. I think  its fair for Mr B to assume when he 
phoned Nationwide in advance to enquire  about the transfer, he should have been told the 
right information. 
And Ive considered what hes said about  missing out on the car purchase. But Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding the overall compensation amount and I dont think a higher 
amount is warranted.  
So, overall, I still think a £300 total compensation is a fair and reasonable amount in the 
circumstances of whats happened.
the loss of interest
Ref: DRN44981544Mr B has provided evidence of his flight ticket showing  when he returned to the UK. And hes 
provided statements  from both his Nationwide account, and another  of his accounts  to show 
the transfers he made on his return to the UK.
Mr B transferred £9,999 to another account  in his name the day after he returned  to the UK. 
And he made a further transfer of £8,670  to the same account a couple of days  later.  The 
account Mr B transferred  the money  to holds a variable base rate of interest of 1.29% and a 
fixed bonus of 0.25% for the first year  totalling 1.54%.
Taking this into account, I think  its reasonable to assume Mr B would have transferred the 
funds if he had the ability to do so when  he knew he couldnt make  the transfer  to purchase 
his car. I say that because he made  the effort to collect a card reader from the Nationwide  
branch on his return to the UK and transfer  the funds to another  account, with a higher rate 
of interest,  shortly afterwards.
So I thought  Mr B should be reimbursed for the loss of interest. I said I intended to ask 
Nationwide to pay Mr B £50 to reimburse him for the phone  calls he made, pay a further 
£225 compensation. And Pay the interest Mr B lost out on by not be able to transfer the 
funds from his Nationwide account to his other  savings account.
Nationwide responded to my second provisional decision and didnt have anything to add. 
Mr B responded and said he felt the second provisional decision summarised everything.  But 
he did say Nationwide  werent experienced or qualified to do an international transfer.  And 
he feels this is an important area to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Mr B feels  it is important  Nationwide  how to advise customers when theyre  
intending to transfer payments internationally. Ive found Nationwide  made an error with the 
advice they gave Mr B and Ive explained  in my provisional decision why I think  its 
appropriate Mr B receives compensation for the distress  caused.
As Mr B and Nationwide  didnt have any other  comments, I find no reason to depart  from my 
reasoning in my provisional decisions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Nationwide  Building Society.
I require Nationwide  Building Society  to:
Pay Mr B £50 to reimburse  him for the phone calls he had to make,  and
Pay Mr B a further £225  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, 
and
Calculate and pay1 the amount  of interest  Mr B lost out on by not being able to 
transfer the funds  (£9,999 on 26 July and £8,670 to an account with an interest  rate 
1 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Nationwide  Building Society to take off tax from this interest.  
Nationwide must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN44981545of 1.29% plus a fixed bonus of 0.25%). The amount should be calculated from the 
date Mr B attempted to make the transfer  to the date he transferred the funds.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4498154