K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Santander  UK Plc:
1.mis-sold a mortgage to them;
2.provided a poor customer experience and didnt  treat them  fairly  when their mortgage 
term ended. It didnt provide adequate or proper guidance and put them under pressure 
to sell their property;
3.didnt follow data protection rules.
background
In 2007 Mr and Mrs A took out an interest-only mortgage with Santander for a term of ten 
years. In 2017,  Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs A to ask them  to repay  the mortgage, as the 
term was ending.
Mr and Mrs A werent happy  about  this and in 2018  they made the complaints listed  above to 
Santander. Santander didnt uphold the complaints, and Mr and Mrs A brought  them to our 
service. However, Santander didnt  consent to our looking into anything  which  had happened 
more than six years previously, as it said we didnt have jurisdiction because those aspects 
of the complaint had been made outside  the time limits.
Mr and Mrs A didnt  agree with that so one of our ombudsmen made  a decision about it. She 
said complaint number 1 about the sale of the mortgage had been made too late for us to be 
able to consider  it. However, the other complaints had been  made  within the time limits so 
we could consider  these.  
Meanwhile Santander had responded to complaints  2 and 3 as follows:
On 30 March 2017 Mr and Mrs A had informed Santander that the property had been on the 
market since October/November 2016 so other  options were not discussed at that time. In 
December 2017  Santanders collections team had looked at the possibility of converting to 
capital and interest and had suggested Mr and Mrs A speak to Stepchange or an 
independent financial  adviser.
In January 2018 Santander had said a term extension  to an interest-only mortgage wasnt  
usually considered where the property was already  on the market, but it could be considered 
in exceptional  circumstances. Santander had said that if Mr and Mrs A would like to discuss  
this possible option  further, they could speak to its interest-only maturity team  on [number].
In March 2018 Santander had said Mr and Mrs A had told it theyd purchased  the property 
as an investment property  to renovate and sell and they had never planned to live there. As 
the mortgage loan was now overdue for repayment  Santander urged Mr and Mrs A to 
continue speaking to the interest-only maturity team. If there were no prospect of selling the 
house in the foreseeable  future Santander might  be able to agree to extend  the mortgage  
term. Or Mr and Mrs A could see whether it would be prepared to grant  consent  to let the 
property so they could obtain a rental income to help with the mortgage  payments.
In April 2018 Mr and Mrs A had asked Santander  to put the mortgage  account on hold for 
two years.  Santander  says it interpreted this as a request not to pass the account to litigation 
Ref: DRN40668082for two years, not as a request to extend  the term by two years.  Santander had declined the 
request saying this was outside its policy. In May 2018 Santander had again confirmed 
Mr and Mrs A should continue speaking with the interest-only maturity team who could 
advise them of their options.
Following the ombudsmans decision on jurisdiction one of our investigators looked  into 
complaints 2 and 3. On complaint 2 the investigator  said Mr and Mrs A had told us the 
property was purchased  as an investment  property  and they didnt reside in it or let it out. 
When they received  the letter asking them to repay the mortgage they had contacted  
Santander but they say it didnt give them any alternatives other than time to sell the 
property to repay the mortgage.
On complaint 3 they had said that whilst  bringing their complaint  to Santander, they had 
spoken to various  managers and were concerned about its lack of concern  to protect their 
data. They  had also submitted a data subject access  request and Santander  had sent them  
some documents concerning the sale of the mortgage but not everything.
Mr and Mrs A had since re-mortgaged the property to a different  lender and they redeemed  
the Santander mortgage on 8 June 2018.
Our investigator said the Financial Conduct Authority had issued  some  guidance to lenders 
to help support  residential owners  with interest-only mortgages. It encouraged lenders to be 
helpful by exploring different options when the owner faced  the task of repaying mortgage 
debt without a repayment vehicle. But the guidance  was issued for owners with residential 
properties who were  facing eviction and had no other options. The mortgage Mr and Mrs A 
were complaining about wasnt  secured  on their residence.
The investigator understood that some options were explored,  including converting the 
mortgage to a repayment mortgage and referring Mr and Mrs A to a debt advice service. But 
without the means  to repay the balance other than by the sale of property or assets, the only 
thing Santander  could offer them was time to make arrangements  to repay the debt, and this 
is what it did. It acted fairly by doing  so as it avoided the extra  costs  of potential possession  
proceedings. The investigator wasnt satisfied  that Santander had treated Mr and Mrs A 
unfairly at the end of the mortgage term.
On complaint 3 the investigator said a breach  of data protection  rules  was a serious  matter  
which would need  to be raised  with the Information  Commissioners Office.  But the 
investigator could  look at the impact of any errors and whether information was leaked to 
another party, and the consequences.
Mr and Mrs As particular  concern was that Santander didnt comply with data protection 
rules when they were  speaking to it. But as it was communicating with the right persons, 
there wasnt evidence  that any financial loss or distress was caused by its actions. So the 
investigator wasnt asking  Santander  to do anything  more about this.
The investigator said that when Santander  originally supplied Mr and Mrs A with details 
relating to the mortgage sale it supplied a number  of key documents  essential for the 
transaction and it sent them a copy of the key documents it relied upon as would be 
expected during the handling  of a complaint. Upon receiving their request for more  
information, Santander wrote giving the correct process for a subject access request. The 
investigator was satisfied Mr and Mrs A received correct information  and the right process to 
complete a request for full information.
Ref: DRN40668083With regard to the level of service  Mr and Mrs A received during a phone call in February 
2018, the investigator agreed with Santanders  findings that the call was not up to its 
standard. The investigator thought  an offer it had made  of £50 by way of apology was 
sufficient.
Mr and Mrs A replied  that the property wasnt purchased for investment purposes and that 
they had never said this. Santander didnt give them any options  other  than to sell the 
property.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In their response to the investigator dated  4 July 2019  Mr and Mrs A denied having  told her 
theyd bought the property  as an investment. This falls short  of asserting that they bought it 
with the intention of living there, but in order to check this Ive also listened to the recording 
of Mr As phone call with the investigator in April 2019. He said: 
We never basically bought the house to be a home, to live in it, OK, we bought it as an 
investment
This is also what Santander says Mr A told it in March 2018,  that Mr and Mrs A had 
purchased the property  as an investment property to renovate  and sell, and that they had 
never planned to live there.
It follows from this that Mr and Mrs As mortgage wasnt  a regulated mortgage contract and 
that the obligations imposed by the Mortgages  and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
sourcebook (MCOB) dont apply to it. In particular the obligation under MCOB 13.3.2A(5)  to 
allow the customer to remain  in possession for a reasonable period to effect a sale doesnt 
apply. 
This means  that Santander  wasnt obliged to allow more  time but I must still consider 
whether it treated Mr and Mrs A fairly.
In its letter  to Mr and Mrs A of 1 March  2018 Santander urged them  to continue speaking  to 
the interest-only maturity team. If there were no prospect of selling the house in the 
foreseeable future Santander said it might be able to agree to extend  the mortgage  term. Or 
Mr and Mrs A could  see whether it would  be prepared  to grant consent to let the property so 
they could obtain a rental income  to help with the mortgage payments.
Mr and Mrs A say in their email  to Santander dated 7 May 2018 that Mrs A phoned that team 
on 26 April 2018 and mentioned that shed been informed that Santander had extended 
mortgage terms by two years for properties which were difficult  to sell. If other customers  
were given up to two years to sell their properties then why was she being treated 
differently? 
Santander replied  on 11 May 2018 that this simply didnt fall within its policy. But as 
mentioned above  Santander hadnt interpreted this as a request to extend the term of the 
mortgage, only as a request to hold  off enforcement  action. 
Ref: DRN40668084Santander could  have added that the examples mentioned by Mrs A were  presumably 
residential mortgages, but at any rate I invited Santander to provide a copy of this policy.  In 
its reply dated 20 February 2020 Santander said that it didnt have one as such  which  it 
could send, but its process would have been  that it would have held  the account for up to 
12 months if the property  had a loan to value  ratio (LTV)  of over 50%. I assume it meant  
under 50%. Santander went  on to say that Mr and Mrs As property was in negative equity 
with an LTV of about 146%. It was therefore  unable to hold the account indefinitely  but would 
have encouraged Mr and Mrs A to maintain  contact  with the interest-only maturity team.
Santander went on to say that with regard to an interest-only term extension of 2 years,  as 
the property was already being  marketed this wasnt something it would have considered 
owing to Mr and Mrs As mortgage being out of contract so they wouldnt have been able to 
retain the tracker  rate they were on of 0.99%. Most of the products available  to them  would 
have carried an early  repayment charge and a higher interest rate. Mr and Mrs A would  have 
needed to complete an application which would have been subject to credit  checks  and 
lending policy.
So the question  for me is whether Santander treated Mr and Mrs A fairly. I cant  actually see 
that it would  have been fair to refuse Mr and Mrs A a 2-year term extension  simply on the 
grounds that they wouldnt  then have an interest-rate product. Mr and Mrs A may have been 
content to proceed  without an interest-rate  product. They may have preferred to pay the 
standard variable  rate for two years  rather  than lose the property. I would also expect 
Santander to have taken account of what was in their best interests.
But would that have solved the problem?  Mr and Mrs A were already in negative equity with 
this property which was not their residence,  and there was no clear means by which they 
could provide the balance  which theyd have to pay to Santander  in order to give title to a 
purchaser and complete  a sale. Giving them a term extension would simply delay the 
inevitable.
In the call on 26 April 2018  Mrs A said shed been told by a financial adviser that they could 
afford a mortgage of £140,000 and that they could obtain £20,000 from family and friends, 
so theyd want Santander to write off the balance. As that would have been  over £65,000, I 
cant say that Santanders  refusal was unfair.
Ive seen no evidence  suggesting that Mr and Mrs A enquired whether Santander  would be 
prepared to grant consent to let the property so they could obtain a rental  income to help 
with the mortgage payments. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think Santander  treated  Mr and Mrs A unfairly  when their 
mortgage term ended.
Under complaint  3 the concern is that Santander  didnt ask security questions when 
returning Mr and Mrs As calls. Santander said in its letter of 28 March 2018:
You also expressed your concern that Simon and myself did not ask you security questions  
when returning  your calls. I am sorry I overlooked performing an identity check  when I 
returned your call. I would  like to reassure you that we would never  perform  transactions or 
updates on your accounts without completing the required  identity checks. 
Ref: DRN40668085However I agree with the investigator that as Santander was in fact communicating  with the 
right person,  theres  no reason why any financial loss or distress  should have been caused 
by the omission.  
Finally I should note that the investigator endorsed  an offer of £50 made by Santander in its 
letter to Mr and Mrs A dated 1 March  2018.  This was in respect of a phone call on 
19 February 2018 which Santander thought it could have handled better. However the offer 
was expressed to be open  for six months  only, so its not appropriate for me to order  
payment.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 April 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4066808