K821x#15complaint
Ms R complains that Scottish Widows Limited failed to notify the court, as required 
under the Attachment  of Earnings  Act 1971, of her former husband closing his pension 
scheme and transferring the assets offshore. She also complains that Scottish Widows 
shouldve given her advance notice of the transfer.
Ms R says shes  lost out financially because of Scottish Widows actions and omissions.  
She says if she and the court had been given more  timely notice, she may have been able to 
obtain permission  to get the funds returned.
background
In February 2009, the court made an attachment order (AEO), under the
Attachment of Earnings Act 1971  (the Act). Ill refer to this order as the 2009 court order. 
This was for deductions  to be made from Ms Rs former husbands income payments from 
his Scottish Widows pension scheme.  The deductions were in respect of maintenance 
payments payable to Ms R from Mr R in financial proceedings  arising  from their divorce.  The 
attachment order was made as a way of enforcing  these maintenance payments, which were 
in arrears.
Under the terms of the 2009 court order Scottish Widows was ordered to make  regular 
payments direct from Mr Rs pension income, to Ms R. 
In July 2010, Mr R transferred the assets  in his pension fund to an offshore provider. 
I understand payment under the AEO hasnt been made since.
Ms R says she later learnt the pensions transfer  had been  made  to a country,  which doesnt 
recognise English  judgments, so the courts of that country wouldnt give effect to any order  
of the English courts.
On the day of transfer, Scottish Widows telephoned Ms Rs solicitor to inform it of the 
transfer. Scottish  Widows didnt provide Ms Rs solicitor with details of the receiving pension  
scheme. Its said it wasnt authorised to do so as there was no pensions  sharing order or 
pensions earmarking order in place.
Scottish Widows  said it had no power  to delay or stop the transfer as Ms R
wasnt entitled to the underlying pension fund,  only to receive payments under
the AEO from the income Mr R got from it.
Ms R later became aware that Scottish Widows  had a legal  responsibility  to notify the court  
within 10 days of the debtor (Mr R) ceasing  to receive an income from Scottish  Widows.  
Scottish Widows  accepts  it didnt notify  the court as required under the Act. But, it said even 
if it had notified  the court  as required to do so, the transfer wouldve still gone  ahead.
Ms R complained to Scottish Widows. It didnt uphold her complaint. Ms R referred her 
complaint to our service. Our adjudicator  thought that Ms Rs complaint  should be upheld.  
The adjudicator took the view that Scottish Widows  should have told the court  it was no 
longer Mr Rs pension  provider and provided details of where the funds had been sent to.
Ref: DRN47509962first provisional decision - April 2019
I issued my first provisional  decision  on Ms Rs complaint in April 2019. In summary,  I said I 
was minded not to uphold  it. My provisional view was that although Scottish Widows had 
failed to notify the court it was no longer Mr Rs pension provider, the Act did not require it to 
provide the court with details of where Mr Rs pension funds had been sent to. Nor did it owe 
Ms R a duty of care. I took the view that Ms R had not lost out financially as a result of Scottish 
Widows omission. Scottish Widows accepted  this decision, Ms R didnt.
After I issued my provisional decision,  Ms R wrote in saying that she had a 50% interest in Mr Rs 
pension. We asked  her to provide more information  about this. She sent in a copy  of a court order  
made in June 2007 (the 2007 court order). This said that the judge ordered Ms Rs: 
claims for a pension  sharing  order  be adjourned generally with leave to restore upon  the basis 
that upon attaining the age of 55 she shall be entitled  to one half of the Respondents pension.
Given this new information,  I asked Scottish Widows  if it had ever seen  a copy of the 2007 
court order.  It said it hadnt.
We asked Ms R if she could say whether Scottish Widows was sent a copy  of the
2007 court  order  by her or her solicitors. Ms R hasnt  been able to show that Scottish
Widows was sent a copy of the 2007 court order.
Ms R remained of the view that Scottish  Widows owed  her a duty of care and shouldve  
notified her in advance that Mr R intended  to transfer his benefits to an offshore pension 
company. She said shed  lost out financially and been  caused  considerable trouble and 
upset by Scottish Widows failing to notify  her in advance of Mr Rs intention to transfer and 
failure to inform the court direct of the transfer.
second provisional decision - September 2019
Given the extent  and nature of the new information  sent in by Ms R in response to my first 
provisional decision, I issued a second  provisional  decision  in September  2019. I said I was 
minded to partially uphold her complaint  and order Scottish Widows to pay Ms R £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset  it had caused her by omitting to inform the court it 
could no longer make deductions under the AEO.
Scottish Widows  accepted my decision.  Ms R didnt. She said in summary:
Scottish Widows admitted its failing;
Her financial  loss is around £201,000;
Had the court been told direct, the court wouldve ordered Mr R to provide this 
information within the 30 day cooling off period;
Mr R provided the information  as soon as he was ordered to do so;
The court couldve made  an order requesting information from Mr R about the transfer if 
it had been told directly, or possibly Scottish  Widows  couldve been asked;
The reason it took longer than the 30 days cooling  off period to get the information  from 
Mr R is because of the time it took to get the court  hearing;
Shed not suggested that Scottish Widows shouldve  known  about  the 2007  pensions 
sharing order, nor had she suggested  that she was owed  a higher  duty of care.  She 
says Scottish Widows  had a duty of care to comply  with the 2009  court  order;
Ref: DRN47509963Knowing the pension  fund was to be transferred  outside of the jurisdiction of the UK 
courts, Scottish Widows duty of care shouldve been  towards her and not Mr R;
She knew nothing of the cooling off period, and couldnt have done  so, because her and 
her solicitor were unaware  of the pension funds whereabouts;
A judge made an order for Mr Rs pension fund to be returned  to the UK and made  a 
freezing order. This couldve  been  done within the cooling off period if Scottish Widows 
had notified the court direct;
There was a pension share  or pensions earmarking order  in place, but this was 
adjourned until she was 55 years  old. She wouldve had it re-instated  at 55. There  was 
never any doubt in her receiving the pension;  and
The amount of compensation Id awarded for her distress and inconvenience was 
inadequate given  the immeasurable  loss she has suffered as a result  of Scottish 
Widows actions and omissions.
third provisional  decision   January 2020
I said in my third provisional  decision that my view had not changed,  I was still minded to 
partially uphold  Ms Rs complaint and to order Scottish Widows  to pay her £300 for her 
trouble and upset.  However as Ms R had provided new information  in response to my 
second provisional decision about the likelihood, in her view, of the assets being reinstated  
to the Scottish  Widows pension fund within  the cooling off period, I considered it necessary 
to respond on this provisionally.  Ive largely repeated  what  I said in my third provisional 
decision below, as my findings  havent  changed.
Ms R responded to my third provisional  decision. She said, in summary:
Id not understood some of the responses shed given to my follow up questions  about 
why she took the view that the money couldve been returned within the cooling off 
period, if the court had been notified  direct;
I dont understand the procedure under the Act, or some of the legalities involved. In the 
circumstances, Ms R suggested we had a round table discussion to enable  her to 
explain this to me.
Ms R said she had provided factual  information  about what the court would  do, the 
procedure it would follow, to obtain information about the whereabouts of the pension 
fund. It would issue a N62 form to the employer  (in this case  the pension fund) and a 
N448 form to Mr R, summoning  them both to court for breaching the Act; 
They wouldve been summoned to court within the cooling off period and a freezing  
order couldve been put on the pension  fund.
If Mr R had been sent the N448, he wouldve supplied  the information  to the court  within 
7 days of being served, as he did in September 2010. Had Mr R not complied, he 
couldve been  sent to prison  because there was a penal notice attached to the order.
The call logs showed  that Scottish  Widows acknowledged that Ms R had an interest in 
the pension and that they had asked the business  to write to Ms Rs solicitors briefly 
outlining the proposed  transaction.  
The logs didnt cover  the call between a named individual at Scottish Widows, and Ms Rs 
solicitor on 21 July 2010, the date of the transfer. Scottish  Widows should  be asked to 
supply this.
She hadnt  been  asked to provide evidence of the call between her solicitor  and Scottish  
Widows on 27 July 2010.
Ref: DRN47509964Ms R produced  an email from January 2010, from Scottish Widows to her solicitors. She 
said this was evidence  of Scottish Widows  having  previously sought consent  from her, 
via her solicitors. She said this proved Scottish Widows owed  her a duty of care.
It was not correct  or fair for Scottish Widows to be given the benefit of the doubt that the 
money may not have been  returned  within the cooling  off period. The ombudsmans  job 
is to look at the facts  of the situation.
Its irrelevant that she wouldve had to go back to court for a new order  to be made in 
relation to her pension  entitlement. The court wouldve made an order giving  her a 50% 
share of the fund.
She also asked me to make an order for Scottish Widows to pay the legal fees she has 
incurred trying to find out where the pension  fund went and trying to get the transfer 
unwound and the funds  brought back  to the UK.
request for oral hearing
After my third provisional decision, Ms R asked  for an oral hearing. She said she wanted to 
show me copies of N62 and N448 used  by the court and to explain what  the court usually 
does when someone does not comply with the requirements of the Attachment  of Earnings 
Act. She said she also wanted  to be able to ask Scottish Widows some questions  at the 
hearing, in particular about their actions in relation to her financial loss. She also said she 
wanted to produce  further paperwork at the hearing showing the courts intentions as 
regards the pension. 
I declined Ms Rs request  for a hearing on the basis that I had already  looked at the forms she 
mentioned and the requirements of the Act. Also,  I had obtained written responses from Scottish 
Widows and taken a consistent view in each of my three provisional decisions about the impact 
Scottish Widows  actions  had had on her financial loss. I gave Ms R a further opportunity  to 
send in any paperwork she wanted  me to consider before I reached  a final decision.  
Ms R responded and said there  was no further  evidence she wanted  to provide. She said 
that by not complying with the Act, Scottish  Widows  hadnt afforded her the opportunity  to 
unwind the transfer, leading to her financial loss. She said Scottish Widows failure to follow 
the legal  requirements of the Act led to Mr R being able to frustrate the order of the court. 
She asked  for the final decision to be made based on the legal requirements of the Act and 
not assumption and supposition. Finally, she said she wanted to clarify that her complaint 
was about the financial  loss of the Attachment of Earnings Order and not the loss of her 50% 
share of the pension  fund. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken on board the extensive 
representations made  by Ms R throughout this case and I can see she feels very strongly 
about this. Ive also considered the points  made  by Scottish Widows.  
Its unusual. in my experience, to issue three  provisional decisions before issuing a final 
decision. Here that was necessary, because  of the new information provided and 
representations made  after the case was referred  to me. 
Ref: DRN47509965Having taken everything into account, I partially  uphold Ms Rs complaint. Im directing that 
Scottish Widows  should pay her £300 compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused  
her. My reasons are essentially the same as set out in my third provisional decision. Ill 
repeat those here and respond to Ms Rs most recent representations.
failure to inform  the court under the Attachment of Earnings Act 1971
It seems  to me that the attachment of earnings  regime, created by the Attachment of 
Earnings Act 1971, isnt intended to prevent  debtors from changing employment. Neither, to 
the extent that it treats  pension  payments as earnings  and pension  providers as 
employers, does the Act prevent debtors from changing their pension provider. 
Scottish Widows  duty was to comply with the terms of the 2009 court order,  and by reason 
of that order, the requirements of the Act. Scottish Widows was under  a legal obligation to 
inform the court within 10 days of it no longer being Mr Rs pension  provider.
The 10 day clock started ticking as soon as the transfer was made.  The Act required Scottish 
Widows to tell the court that it had ceased to be Mr Rs pension  provider for the purposes of 
the AEO. It did not require Scottish  Widows to tell the court,  as Ms R originally thought, 
where the pension  fund had been transferred to, or to inform Ms R or her solicitor  of this. I 
say this even  though  Mr Rs actions could  be seen as a way of circumventing the AEO and 
placing his pension scheme assets  outside  of the jurisdiction of the UK courts.
Scottish Widows  accepts  it didnt inform the court  as required to do so under the Act. 
Its clear that Scottish Widows did something  wrong,  it didnt comply  with its duty under the 
Act to tell the court within 10 days  that it was no longer  Mr Rs pension provider. It did pass 
on this information  to Ms Rs solicitor,  on the day of transfer. So, it seems to me that Scottish  
Widows passed on the right information  in a timely way, but not to the right body, the court. 
To decide this complaint I therefore have to decide  whether Scottish  Widows  omission  has 
caused Ms R loss.
what happens when  there is a breach of the Act?
Ms R said shed made enquiries of the court, and in circumstances like this, the court had 
told her that a fairly standard  response would  involve  the court serving notice after the 10 
day notification period had passed on the employer to show  cause why it should not be 
punished for breaching the Act. Breach of the Act is an offence punishable with a fine (and in 
more limited circumstances  imprisonment).
Here, although in the connected financial proceedings, the court  was made  aware of the 
transfer and the fact the AEO was no longer  effective, Ive not heard that the court decided to 
serve notice on Scottish Widows to attend court to show cause why it should not be punished.
But, even  had the court served  notice  on Scottish  Widows to attend court to show cause 
why it should not be punished,  under  the Civil Procedure Rules  that notice would normally 
have had to be served  personally on Scottish Widows 14 days  before the hearing, although it 
wouldve been open to the court to reduce this period. So, in the normal  course of events, 
Scottish Widows  wouldnt  have appeared before the court  until at least  25 days after the 
transfer, subject to court availability. And Ms R indicated  that her solicitor had had some 
difficulty getting a court hearing in the financial proceedings, to require Mr R to disclose the 
whereabouts of his pension fund. 
Ref: DRN47509966Importantly, the purpose of the show cause hearing wouldve been  to decide what  
punishment, if any, should be imposed on Scottish  Widows for not telling the court it was no 
longer Mr Rs pension  provider. It wouldnt have been about obtaining information  from 
Scottish Widows  as to the whereabouts of the pension scheme.  Thats because there was 
no statutory obligation  on Scottish Widows to provide this information  to the court,  and 
therefore Scottish Widows was not in breach of the Act in that respect. 
Scottish Widows  tells Ms Rs solicitors 
Its not in dispute that Scottish Widows did inform  Ms Rs solicitor  of the transfer, on the 
day of transfer, on 21 July 2010.  And that it informed the solicitors  that it would no longer be 
able to make  payments  to her under the AEO going forward. 
This put Ms R and her solicitors on notice  from this date. Ms R tells me that her solicitor  first 
contacted the court  on 13 August 2010  for a hearing, having first tried to obtain information 
from Scottish Widows  and Mr Rs solicitors  about where the pension  funds had gone. 
did Ms Rs solicitor point out to Scottish  Widows its duty to inform the court  that it could no 
longer make  payments under the AEO?
Ms R specifically told us that during a phone  call with Scottish  Widows,  on 27 July 2010, her 
new solicitor informed Scottish Widows that it was under  an obligation to inform the court it 
could no longer make payments under the AEO. 
Ive not seen anything from Ms Rs solicitors records to verify  this. The usual  position  is that 
a party  making  an assertion  (in this case Ms R), is asked to show  that more  likely than not it 
happened.
Given what Ms R said about this conversation, if true, this might  suggest Scottish Widows 
failure to notify  the court was more deliberate. I therefore asked Scottish Widows if it had a 
record of this call from 27 July. It provided  a copy of its call logs from 27 and 28 July 2010. 
Its not recorded  in Scottish  Widows call log that Ms Rs solicitor  told Scottish Widows of its 
duty to tell the court about the payments stopping under the AEO. I can see notes recording 
a discussion about  whether, if Ms Rs solicitor obtained a court order authorising Scottish  
Widows to discuss the transfer  with the solicitors, it would.  Scottish  Widows notes indicate  it 
informed Ms Rs solicitor that if such an order was obtained, this would be possible. 
I think these logs can reasonably be relied  on. They were made at the time, when events 
were fresh, and within the 10 day court notification period. So, Scottish  Widows hadnt  done 
anything wrong  by then.
Ms R says in her response to my third provisional decision there is another relevant call 
between a named  individual  at Scottish  Widows and her former solicitor from 21 July 2010, 
that being the day of transfer.  She asks me to obtain a copy of this call log. I dont consider it 
necessary or appropriate to do so. Its not in dispute  that on 21 July 2010 there was a call 
from Scottish Widows  informing Ms Rs former solicitor of the transfer. But, I understand from 
Ms R that she changed solicitors on 27 July. And from what shes  told me it was her new 
solicitor who informed Scottish Widows of its duty to inform the court. So call logs prior to 
27 July are not required to resolve this particular point.   
Ref: DRN47509967Based on what Ive seen,  I cant fairly conclude that Scottish Widows was specifically 
told by Ms Rs new solicitors on 27 July that it should also inform  the court  of being  
unable to make payments  going  forward under the AEO.
As Ive already  said, under  the Act, Scottish Widows wasnt  obliged  to tell Ms Rs solicitors  or 
the court (without an order requiring it to do so) where Mr R had transferred his pension fund 
to. It told Ms Rs solicitors on 27 July 2010  it would comply with a court  order, requiring it to 
provide this information. So, it was open to Ms R to approach the court  from this date 
onwards to obtain information from Scottish  Widows  about where the funds  had gone.  I 
havent been told she did this.
Mr Rs duty to inform the court
Mr R personally had a duty to tell the court of his change  of circumstances,  including  to 
provide details of his new employer (pension  provider). It seems he didnt provide this 
information until September  2010,  and only when ordered by the court to do so, rather  than 
when his duty first arose upon transfer  in July 2010.  
Ms R, in her affidavit  to the court in the financial proceedings, said that her solicitor had tried 
to obtain information from Mr Rs solicitor about the transfer between  29 July and 12 August 
2010. In her affidavit,  she told the court Mr R appeared very reluctant to provide the relevant 
information he was obliged to provide the court with under the Act. She also said that she 
believed that Mr R was evading dealing with proper  requests made by her solicitors  in an 
attempt to avoid  complying with the order to make maintenance payments to her.
Notice could also have  been served on Mr R by the court to show  cause why he should  not 
be punished for failing to provide the necessary information to the court within  the required 
period. But, as I understand it, the matter was brought back  to court,  and the whereabouts of 
the pension scheme  established, as a result  of Ms R making an application for disclosure 
against Mr R in the financial proceedings.
did Scottish Widows  owe Ms R a duty of care or have to tell her in advance of the transfer?
Ms R said that Scottish Widows owed her a duty of care to inform  her in advance  that Mr R 
was proposing to make  the transfer, because she had a 50% entitlement  to Mr Rs pension  
fund. And even more  so, because his fund was being  transferred offshore. 
2007 court  order
Ms R told me she had a pension sharing  order and a 50% entitlement to Mr Rs pension fund.
Having asked Ms R to provide a copy of the 2007  court order,  I saw that it was 
envisaged in due course Ms R would get a 50% entitlement to Mr Rs pension. But, the 
court had adjourned the question of Ms Rs pension entitlement.  It had not made a 
pension sharing order or a pension earmarking order.
At the time of transfer in 2010, the position appeared unchanged. The 2009 court order 
dealt only with the AEO.
Ref: DRN47509968Ms R referred me to an email from January 2010, where Scottish Widows asked her 
solicitor to obtain Ms Rs consent about  how to make  payment under the AEO.  I dont infer 
from this that Scottish Widows owed Ms R a general duty of care in relation to Mr Rs 
pension fund. Its duty was to ensure  that it complied with the terms of the AEO, and made 
payment under it as required. The email  related  specifically to that.
As Ms R appeared not to have an underlying entitlement  to Mr Rs pension fund at the 
time of transfer (or at least one that Scottish  Widows was aware of), I cant see that 
Scottish Widows  owed  her a general  duty of care, or that it was required to notify her in 
advance of the transfer.
was Scottish Widows  aware of the 2007  order?
Having seen the 2007 court order, I understood why Ms R might feel she had an underlying  
pension entitlement  to part of Mr Rs pension.  So, given  the wording of the order,  I 
considered whether, if Scottish Widows had known about it, it mightve  been  reasonable  for it 
to have informed  Ms R of the transfer. 
However, when I asked Ms R whether Scottish Widows had been sent this court order  by her 
or her solicitors,  she couldnt show that it had. In response to my second  provisional decision, 
Ms R said that shed not suggested that Scottish Widows knew about the 2007 order.
I think  it unlikely  that Mr R wouldve told Scottish Widows about the 2007 order, 
particularly given that his decision to transfer his pension  offshore resulted in him taking 
his assets beyond the control of the UK courts and the AEO becoming  ineffective.
Scottish Widows  said it hadnt seen the 2007  court order until we sent it a copy  (with Ms Rs 
permission). I can see that Scottish Widows was sent a copy of the 2009 court order,  but I 
think, more likely than not, Scottish Widows  was unaware of the 2007 court  order,  and the 
background to it, at the time of transfer  in 2010.
I cant see therefore that Scottish  Widows  couldve reasonably  known that the court was 
contemplating making a pension sharing order. So, given what  Scottish Widows likely 
knew in 2010,  Im not persuaded that Scottish  Widows  owed Ms R a duty of care to 
inform her in advance of Mr Rs plans  to transfer.  
has Ms R suffered loss as a result of Scottish Widows actions or omissions?
Having reached  the conclusion  that Scottish  Widows  did something  wrong,  I must go on to 
consider whether Ms R has lost out because of what Scottish Widows specifically did wrong. 
I have concluded  that Scottish Widows didnt owe Ms R a general duty of care. So what I 
need to look at  is whether it wouldve made  a difference if Scottish Widows had done what it 
was required to do under  the Act, and whether Scottish Widows actions or omissions led to, 
or contributed to Ms Rs loss and she should be compensated  in any way.
Ms R strongly believes that if the court had been  notified as required under the Act, it 
may have  been  possible  to undo  the transfer  in some way during the cooling off 
period. She says in these circumstances, she wouldnt have ended up losing out 
financially in the way she has.
Ref: DRN47509969financial loss
Whilst I sympathise  greatly with the situation Ms R now finds herself  in, fairly, I cant
hold Scottish Widows  responsible for her financial loss. In my view, Ms Rs financial loss 
doesnt flow from Scottish  Widows omission. Ill explain why.
On my reading there  was nothing in either the 2007 or 2009 court orders  that prevented Mr R 
from transferring his pension fund and by doing  so ending the AEO relating to Scottish  
Widows. I am aware that sometimes in financial relief cases, undertakings are given not to 
transfer pension  benefits, but Ive not been  told that Scottish Widows  was made aware  of any 
undertakings here. So, it was not within Scottish  Widows power  to prevent Mr R from ending  
the AEO by his actions.  Scottish Widows cant reasonably be held responsible for Mr Rs 
decision to transfer  his benefits, which ended  the Attachment of Earnings Order  Scottish  
Widows was making the payments to Ms R under.     
Mr R appeared fairly intent on transferring  his pension fund overseas. Ms R told the court in 
her affidavit this was because he was trying to evade making maintenance payments to her. 
Between 29 July and 12 August 2010, according  to Ms R, despite  requests, Mr R or his 
solicitors didnt tell her solicitor about  the whereabouts  of the pension  fund.
But, Ms R firmly believes the money  could have been  returned within  the 30 day cooling off 
period had Scottish Widows met its legal responsibility under the Act. The usual scenario in 
transactions within the jurisdiction of the English  courts, is that the scheme  member  has the 
right to cancel the contract within 30 days. Ive not been given any particulars  about  how the 
cooling off period worked here, where  the money was going  overseas, and outside of the 
jurisdiction of the English courts. Given the backdrop here, I think it highly unlikely Mr R (the 
scheme member)  wouldve voluntarily sought the return of his pension fund during any 
cooling off period.
Therefore, I think it inevitable the court wouldve had to be involved to order  the return of the 
funds. Ms R seems to think the court couldve been  involved much earlier  if Scottish Widows 
had met its duty to inform the court, crucially  within the cooling off period.
But, even  if Scottish Widows  had fully complied with the legal requirements  of the Act by the 
date required,  the court still wouldnt have known where the funds were. It wouldve then 
needed to bring  Mr R before the court, or to order Scottish Widows to supply this information.  
And, if Scottish Widows had complied with the legal requirement to notify the court within  10 
days, it wouldnt have been  in breach of the Act. So, it wouldnt have been sent notice in the 
way Ms R describes to show cause why it should  not be punished. There  would be nothing 
to punish it for.
Scottish Widows  admits  it didnt comply with the Act. But, it seems  the court didnt issue  a 
notice for it to attend to show cause why it should not be punished and it didnt direct it to tell 
the court who the new overseas provider was. My view,  therefore, remains as set out in my 
provisional decision - that is, that given it was Mr Rs personal  responsibility to inform  the 
court of his new pension  provider, the court likely wouldve sought to obtain  this information 
direct from Mr R first and foremost. In reaching this conclusion, Ive taken into account  what 
the purpose of the AEO statutory regime is, as discussed above,  and that its not to stop a 
person changing employers  or pension providers. Ive also taken into account the fact that 
Scottish Widows  did pass  on the right information  on the day of transfer, but to Ms Rs 
solicitor, rather  than to the court. Further, Ive noted  that Ms Rs solicitor applied  to court for 
Mr R to disclose the whereabouts of the pension fund.
Ref: DRN475099610Inevitably, in my view,  given Mr Rs apparent reluctance to provide information voluntarily, to 
obtain information about the whereabouts of the scheme, this wouldve involved fixing  a 
court hearing and asking the court to direct him to supply the information. This is exactly the 
chain of events  Ms Rs solicitor put in hand.  A chain  of events that couldve followed at any 
time following the call from Scottish Widows to her solicitor on 21 July. 
Ms Rs solicitors were aware on 27 July 2010, before the 10 day deadline under the Act had 
even passed,  that a court order  would  be required  for Scottish Widows to provide information  
about where the funds had been  transferred  to. Scottish Widows had indicated that it would 
co-operate with a court order requiring  this information. I havent been told that such  an order  
was sought or obtained.
Mr R didnt provide information about the transfer  until he was required to do so by an 
order of the court. It took more than 30 days  after transfer to get this information  from Mr R, 
so longer than the cooling  off period mentioned  in any event. Mr Rs duty to tell the court of 
his change of circumstances arose  in July 2010, when he made the transfer.  He went  on 
to provide details  of the transfer, under compulsion, in September  2010. 
Ms R said a judge made an order that Mr Rs pension fund should be returned to the UK 
and also made a freezing order. I understand this order has not been complied with. 
Therefore, I dont share Ms Rs view that she has lost out here because  Scottish  Widows 
didnt inform the court that it was no longer  the pension provider under the AEO. I think  in all 
likelihood, Ms R would be in the same  situation,  even if Scottish Widows had notified the 
court within 10 days of the transfer.
So, Im sorry to disappoint Ms R, but in my view I dont think Scottish  Widows omission 
led to the financial loss she says she has, I therefore do not need  to go on and quantify 
the amount of the loss she has suffered.
Given the conclusion  Ive reached  about  Scottish Widows liability for the financial loss 
Ms Rs suffered, it would not be fair or appropriate for me to order  Scottish Widows to 
pay her legal costs. 
trouble and upset
Its very clear that Ms R has been  caused  considerable trouble and upset by the situation 
she now finds herself in. I dont seek to in any way undermine the serious impact this 
must have  had on her. I empathise with the situation  she finds herself  in.
Ms R lays the blame at Scottish Widows door.  She considers that Scottish Widows aided 
Mr R. As Ive said above, I cant see that Scottish  Widows deliberately  chose to withhold 
information from the court. In reaching this conclusion, I take into account that on the day 
the transfer was made it notified Ms R, via her solicitors, of the transfer.  This meant  that 
Ms R could immediately decide what action to take.  Scottish Widows had 
10 days to notify  the court. If it was seeking to withhold information  or to aid Mr R, I think  it 
unlikely that it wouldve  informed Ms R, or done so as immediately  as it did. 
Ref: DRN475099611Also, Ive seen the Judges conclusions  regarding Mr Rs actions, where it was said:
It is clear  that [Mr R] has disposed of his pension fund so as to frustrate  or impede the 
enforcement of both the current order for periodical payments in favour  of [Ms R] and the 
adjourned pension share  in respect of the pension fund.
Its not within my remit to assess  Mr Rs level of fault here. But, taking into account what  the 
court has said,  I also cant reasonably hold Scottish Widows fully responsible for all the 
trouble and upset  Ms R has been  caused.
I have considered very carefully how Scottish Widows has contributed  to Ms Rs trouble and 
upset. This includes making detailed  enquiries  to understand  what  Scottish Widows knew of 
the pensions background between Mr and Ms R prior to transfer. Having made these 
enquiries, I cant  see that Scottish  Widows  wouldve known that the court  was intending to 
make a pensions sharing  order.  I cant see that it wouldve been  apparent  to Scottish  
Widows that Mr R may have been  intending to frustrate the 2007 court order by his actions. 
So far as the 2009 court  order was concerned, Ms R didnt appear to have an underlying  
interest in Mr Rs pension  scheme, and there  was nothing within the 2009  court  order which  
limited Mr Rs disposal of his fund. So, whilst  Scottish Widows gave effect to Mr Rs wishes  
by acting upon his transfer  request, as Ive said above, I cant see how it couldve prevented  
him from transferring, based on what it likely knew.
So, in making  an order for distress and inconvenience, my order  fairly has to be limited  to 
how I think Scottish Widows  has specifically  contributed to the trouble and upset Ms R
has been caused. Understandably, Ms R is left questioning whether things might have 
ended up differently if Scottish  Widows  had notified the court  direct, as it was required to do
under the Act. She strongly thinks things wouldve ended differently. As Ive explained, I 
dont share  that view.
On the limited basis, that Scottish Widows failure to inform the court has left Ms R 
speculating about whether things couldve been  different,  I make an order  for Scottish  
Widows to pay Ms R some compensation  for the trouble and upset its caused her by its 
omission. I know Ms R regards this as inadequate given her overall loss. However, I can 
only make  an award to the extent I consider Scottish Widows is responsible. I am sorry 
that the outcome here is not what Ms R was hoping for, but for the reasons I have 
explained, it would be neither fair nor reasonable to conclude  that Scottish Widows is 
responsible in whole or part for her financial loss.
final decision
For these reasons, I partially  uphold Ms Rs complaint and order Scottish Widows Limited to 
pay her £300 for the trouble and upset it has caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4750996