K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained about  Legal & General Insurance Limiteds (L&G) handling 
of their home insurance claim and the amount  its offered  in settlement.
background
Mr and Mrs Ws claim included damage  to their kitchen. They provided  three  quotes  for it to 
be replaced, ranging from £15,204  to £16,500 (including VAT). L&Gs loss adjuster also 
priced the cost of the work  ranging  from around £4,000 to just under £11,000 (plus  VAT). 
L&G ultimately offered  Mr and Mrs W a cash settlement based on the final costing. It said 
the VAT element would be paid once  Mr and Mrs W provided L&G with invoices. 
Alternatively, Allianz said it could arrange  for one of its contractors to do the work needed to 
replace the kitchen. The offer was made  about three  weeks  after Mr and Mrs W made  their 
claim.
Mr and Mrs W decided  to have a cash settlement because Christmas was approaching and 
L&G couldnt  guarantee that its contractors could do the work before then. But they were 
unhappy with the amount offered as it was less than the quotes theyd got. They  were  also 
unhappy with the £30 a day disturbance  allowance  L&G was paying.
L&G wasnt  prepared to increase the settlement. It said it was entitled to pay Mr and Mrs W 
what it would  have  cost its contractors to replace the kitchen. It also felt the £30 a day 
disturbance allowance it paid was sufficient.  L&G did recognise that the service provided  
was less  than desired,  and it offered  Mr and Mrs W £150 compensation.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt L&G had 
settled the claim fairly in line with the terms of the policy.  He also felt the disturbance 
allowance and compensation  L&G paid was fair. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with our 
investigator so the complaint has been passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
claim settlement
For any insurance claim its a requirement  for the policyholder to prove their claim/loss . What 
that essentially means is that they have to show that damage  has been caused  to property 
insured by the policy by an event specified in the policy.  They also have to show  the amount 
of their loss. So in this case Mr and Mrs W would have to show  that an insured event (theft)  
occurred which caused damage to something  insured by the property (their home) and how 
much it would cost to fix that damage (their loss).
I mention this because  in their complaint Mr and Mrs W have commented  on them being told 
to get repair  estimates  and the time and effort it took them to get those estimates. As this 
was part and parcel of their obligation to prove  their claim and loss I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for L&G to have asked for them to get the estimates. And the time and effort 
expended in getting them is essentially a natural result of the claim.
Ref: DRN42842902L&Gs liability under  the terms of the policy is the cost of repairing, reinstating or replacing  
the damage. In common with most policies of this nature,  the choice of how it does this is 
L&Gs  the policyholder has no right under the terms of the policy  to choose  how the claim 
should be settled.  However, ultimately, its the consumers property so they can (for 
example) refuse to allow the insurer  the right to repair or replace the damaged  property. 
Most insurers are amenable to this, and will be prepared to settle the claim on a cash  basis. 
Theres usually some term written into the policy  as there  is here  limiting  the insurers 
liability in that situation to the amount it would have paid its contractor to do the work (which  
is usually considerably less than what the consumer will pay on the open  market).
I think that is fair. After  all, its the consumer who is effectively breaking the terms of the 
contract by not allowing  the insurer to settle the claim as they wish. The situation would be 
different if it was the insurer  who chose to settle the claim on a cash  basis, if the insurer 
couldnt settle the claim by repairing or replacing  through its contractors, or if the consumer 
only chose the cash option because the insurer was being so unreasonable  that they were 
essentially backed into a corner.  I dont think any of those situations occurred here though.
I understand why Mr and Mrs W chose to have  a cash settlement rather than have  L&Gs 
contractors do the work.  But it remains that it was ultimately their choice  to do that. And Im 
not persuaded that L&Gs handling of the claim was so poor or the estimated time to do the 
work was so long, that Mr and Mrs W were  effectively  forced  to make the decision they did. 
Even if the offer to have  L&Gs contractors  to do the work  was made two to three weeks 
earlier than it was (ie when the loss adjuster first visited  or shortly after) it may well have  
been a similar situation that the work  couldnt  be guaranteed to be completed  before 
Christmas. So overall, I think it was fair for L&G to settle the claim based on what it would 
have paid its contractor  for the work.
The issue  here though appears  to be more over how much L&G says it could have done the 
repair for. I can understand Mr and Mrs Ws scepticism at the settlement given the increases 
in settlement offers theyve had. But Ive not seen anything to show that L&G would have 
paid its contractor more  than what it ultimately offered Mr and Mrs W. Once VAT is added to 
L&Gs final offer,  it isnt too far off the estimates  the Mr and Mrs W got. The difference  is just 
over £2,000, or around  15%, which I dont think is unreasonable given the scale of discounts 
insurers receive from contractors.
So, overall, Im satisfied that L&Gs ultimate was offer fair and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
disturbance allowance
Insurers sometimes consider paying  consumers a disturbance allowance if they cant use 
their kitchen. The allowance is designed to cover  the extra costs (ie over and above what  
would normally be spent  anyway) a consumer might  incur because  they cant  cook or store  
food. Technically its for the consumer to show what extra  costs  they incurred.  But that is 
sometimes arduous so most  insurers will adopt a blanket  £10 a day per adult  and £5 a day 
per child approach. I generally  consider  that fair, and it looks  like thats what  L&G did here.
There are times when I might  consider  asking  an insurer to pay more.  But the consumer 
would have to show or otherwise persuade me that they spent more than the allowance 
given to them by the insurer. Mr and Mrs W havent  done that here. And Im not persuaded 
by their argument that feeding a family of four on takeaways and dining out for three meals a 
day is impossible on £30 a day. Firstly, as mentioned  above,  the £30 is designed to be on 
Ref: DRN42842903top of what their normal daily expenditure would have been anyway. Also,  Im not persuaded 
it was necessary for them  to eat out or have takeaways for every meal. I appreciate they had 
no cooking facilities, but breakfast and lunch doesnt normally require cooked food. And 
Mr and Mrs W said their parents sometimes allowed  them to dine with them.
So, all in all, Im not persuaded that the £30 a day paid by L&G was unfair in this instance.
compensation
Its important to note that I only make  insurers pay compensation for distress and 
inconvenience caused to a consumer  because of something the insurer  did wrong. Claims of 
this nature will often be stressful and inconvenient for a policyholder  because  of the 
circumstances of the incident  and the damage caused. This stress/inconvenience  is part and 
parcel of the claim.
There have been  occasions here when L&G could have done better  and L&G recognised  
that. Im not persuaded that had much  of a difference on the overall  outcome of the claim,  
but Im satisfied that it caused Mr and Mrs W additional trouble and upset. However, I think  
the £150 compensation L&G has already offered is fair. Its in the vicinity  of what  I would 
have made  it pay had there not been  any offer on the table. So Im not going to make it pay 
anything more.
other issues
Mr and Mrs W mentioned  other elements of the claim that hadnt been settled properly eg 
clothing, a boiler.  In its final response  to this complaint L&G said it passed  Mr and Mrs Ws 
report to its specialist team and that a visit from a specialist  would  be required to validate  the 
claim. It also said it was in the process  of calculating  a settlement for the clothing claim.
Its not clear to me whether these elements are still outstanding, but theyre not something  
that Ive considered as part of this claim. Thats because  any further problems that might  
have arisen have occurred after L&Gs final response to this complaint, and would therefore 
need to be the subject  of a separate complaint.
Ref: DRN42842904my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 December  2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4284290