K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that Virgin Money plc rejected  her claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 in respect of building  works.
background
In January Ms P met with a representative of a building  company I will call C. She wanted to 
have an extension built to her house.  C sent her a quote which  outlined  the work to be 
carried out and set out the costs as follows:
Build Total  excluding VAT  £43,164.94
VAT  £8,635.06
Building Total Inclusive  of VAT £ 51,800
Payment Schedule
Drawings to be paid with the deposit inc. VAT   £2,280.00
Deposit for works 25% £12,950.00              25%
Groundworks & Footings £12,950.00
Complete shell water  tight   £9,324.00
Completion   £6,216.00
Retention for snagging  after 14 days   £8,080.00
Build Total including Drawings £45,795.00
However it offered  her a deal if she agreed to her property being used for advertising. This 
was called the portfolio scheme and its reduced price was outlined as follows:
Total inclusive of VAT £38,500.00
Payment Schedule
Drawings to be paid with the deposit inc VAT £2,280.00
Contract 1 Deposit for works 25% £9,625.00
Contract 1 Groundworks  & Footings £9,625.00
Contract 2 Complete shell water tight  £6,930.00
Contract 2 Completion  £4,620.00
Retention for snagging  after 14 days  £5,420.00
Build Total including Drawings £38,500.00
Mrs P says she was encouraged to use a credit card to make  part of the payment and she 
took out a card with Virgin. She paid £500 using her credit card on 6 February  and £11,405 
was paid from her bank account.  In May 2018  she discovered C had ceased trading  and she 
believes that she has been the victim  of a scam. She had identified  over 50 others who are 
in a similar position. She has pursued her case with a number of bodies, including the police,  
trading standards and her banks fraud  department.
She also contacted  Virgin  which instigated a chargeback for the £500 she had paid by credit 
card and this sum was recovered and repaid to her. It also considered  her claim under 
Ref: DRN45994892section 75, but concluded  that the transaction fell outside the financial limits set down in the 
legislation. It said that as the contract  exceeded £30,000 it couldnt uphold  her claim. She 
complained and the bank  apologised for the delays in handling her claim,  but said it had 
reached the right decision. It paid her compensation  of £300.
Ms P brought her complaint to this service where  it was considered by one of our 
investigators. Ms P said she had entered into two contracts,  one to create an extension to 
the rear of the property and the second to add a kitchen diner. She said she had only agreed  
that she would go forward with the second  if she was satisfied. 
The investigator considered the only written evidence available to her which  was the quote. 
She said she could  understand why Ms P had said there were two contracts. The Portfolio 
Scheme pricing structure had labels contract 1 and contract 2 which are both individually  
less than £30,000. 
However, she didnt  think  this indicated there were two separate and individual contracts. 
She concluded this for a number of reasons. Firstly  Ms P paid one single deposit of £11,905  
rather than two. Also, the breakdown sets a payment  schedule  of each stage of the work 
rather than two separate pieces of work. She said it didnt refer to the extension  works and 
the kitchen diner  being separate contracts.
Furthermore, she didnt think that groundworks & footings and complete shell water tight 
were mutually exclusive of each  other  in building  works so they couldnt be regarded as 
separate. Finally,  she said there was no indication that the works wouldnt  have  been  
completed as one single project. As such she believed there  was single contract  which 
exceeded £30,000 and so fell outside  Section 75.
Ms P didnt agree. She said that the salesman gave her a revised price of £28,000  for a 
smaller extension. This was because planning  permission wasnt granted for the larger 
extension. She said she had been  the subject of a scam and had been pressurised into 
paying such a large  deposit. She said that since it was scam the figures quoted  were  not 
relevant. C had never intended to complete the work. She explained  the hardship she had 
suffered and asked  that it be treated as an exceptional case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Ms P has referred to her bank  and Cs bank in her complaint, but I am only 
considering her complaint against  Virgin. If she wishes to raise  separate complaints against 
other institutions she may do so. 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
Ref: DRN45994893The legislation only covers transactions which fall with certain  financial limits. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within  section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against  the 
creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor
[this]does not apply to a claim
(a) under  a non-commercial agreement,
(b) so far as the claim  relates  to any single item to which the supplier has attached a cash 
price not exceeding  £100  or more  than £30,000,
The legislation refers  to a single item to which the supplier has attached cash  price.  In this 
case the total agreed price for the works was £38,500. The full price breakdown doesnt refer 
to separate contracts.  The labels  contract 1 and contract 2 are only mentioned in the 
reduced price Portfolio Scheme. 
It states that contract  1 is made up of a deposit  which amounts to 25% of the total price  and 
the groundworks  and footings.  Contract 2 is for completion of the shell and completion.  
Those are not separate entitles in building works. A deposit and groundworks  dont 
constitute a single item as required by the legislation.
I also note that Ms P says that she later agreed  a lower sum due to the size of the project  
being reduced. I appreciate her plans were revised,  but I have seen nothing to show  this 
reduced price or how it was calculated. She says the extension was reduced from four 
metres to three metres,  but given the associated works it doesnt make sense that C would 
reduce the price by 26%. A reduction  of one metre  is unlikely to mean  that the cost would be 
reduced by so much.
In any event the only agreement which we have  is the quote and Ms Ps payment of 25% of 
the agreed price. I consider this payment  indicates her acceptance of the offer put forward 
by C. At the time she made the payment she agreed the price for the work to which  C had 
attached a cash price  of £38,500.
The quote  describes the work as: Create  a single story extension  to rear of property to 
make single bedroom much larger and to add a kitchen diner.  Extension  to side return 
against Victorian  half width extension.  It also includes a new patio and decked area. I am 
not persuaded that this can be seen  as two projects or two contracts. There is nothing  to 
support Ms Ps claim that she would  only agree  to a second contract  once she was satisfied 
with the first. Indeed I am not sure what she regards  as the first contract. 
I appreciate that Ms P may have been  the victim  of a scam, but the transaction she entered  
into was to pay £38,500 and had the building works been carried  out I am satisfied this is 
what she would have  paid. So while I have  every sympathy with Ms P and her predicament  I 
cannot say that Virgin  has done  anything wrong in rejecting her claim. I would add that I 
consider the compensation paid for the delay is fair. 
Ref: DRN45994894my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept  or reject my decision before 
1 March 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4599489