K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains the way that Harvey & Thompson  Limited (H&T) handled  items  she left with 
them. 
background
In January 2018, Ms C took a loan of £200 from H&T (a pawnbroker)  and left a pair of 
earrings and a ring  made from Guyanese gold - as security  for it. The loan was due to be 
repaid in July 2018 in one instalment of £319.88.  Ms C made a number of payments to the 
loan during the six months, but hadnt  repaid it all by the due date. As the loan was still 
outstanding, in September 2018, H&T sent the jewellery for auction. Ms C complained  that 
shed not been told that the jewellery  was being  sold. 
H&T looked into her complaint and issued its final response. It said as the loan had been  
overdue it was entitled to sell the items,  but had returned them to the store  following her 
complaint. An appointment  was made for Ms C to put the items  back onto a pledge.
Ms C visited  the branch  of H&T, but found  the jewellery was damaged, so she made a 
complaint. H&T said the items were damaged when they were left with it at the outset. 
Despite that though, it offered to have the jewellery repaired as a gesture of goodwill. Ms C 
refused this offer because the repairs wouldnt be done with Guyanese  gold. 
Ms C referred her complaint to us and one of our adjudicators looked into it. He said that 
H&T had written to Ms C on 9 June  2018  to remind her that the loan was due for repayment  
soon, and on 2 August  2018 to let her know the jewellery would be sold at auction.  Ms C 
visited the store in September  2018 to change  her address and said shed not had any 
letters. Our adjudicator  said he was satisfied the letters were sent to the address H&T had at 
the time,  and the terms of the contract  Ms C had signed, allowed them to sell the jewellery in 
the circumstances.   
Our adjudicator said Ms C had acknowledged  there was some  damage to the jewellery 
before it was left with H&T, but that she said further  damage had been caused since. He 
looked at photographs provided by Ms C and H&T. He could see there was damage, but 
was unable to determine when that took place  or if there was more damage  now. He noted  
that H&Ts records show the items were damaged when  they were  given  to it. On balance,  
he felt he couldnt  reasonably say that H&T had caused  further  damage. He felt the offer to 
repair the jewellery was a reasonable  way to resolve the complaint. 
Ms C rejected our adjudicators opinion. She said, in summary:
it was unfair of H&T to try to sell the jewellery while  she was still making payments
theres  no evidence  of the reminder  or auction letters being sent and H&T already 
had her new address
the photographs showing  the damage  to the earrings were  taken after the damage 
was caused while  in H&Ts  possession. 
As there was no agreement, Ms Cs complaint  was passed to me for a final decision. 
Ref: DRN48041182my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When Ms C took the loan,  she signed  a Fixed  Sum Loan Agreement and Pawn Receipt 
document which set out the terms of the agreement. I think its reasonable that shed have 
known the loan was due for repayment in one instalment in July 2018.  The terms set out on 
the document say that the jewellery may be sold by the Pawnbroker if the loan isnt repaid 
in full on time. While  Ms C had made some payments,  she hadnt repaid the loan so I cant  
say it was unreasonable for H&T to seek to sell the jewellery.
H&T has provided screen shots of its system which show that letters were sent to Ms C. One 
was to let her know the loan was due to be repaid  and another  that the items would be sold. 
The records  show they were sent to the correct address. While Ms C says she didnt receive  
them, I cant hold H&T responsible for that; Im satisfied they were sent.
There is no dispute that the jewellery  is damaged. The dispute centres on when that damage 
occurred. Both parties agree that the jewellery  was damaged when  it was first deposited  with 
H&T. Indeed, the loan agreement and pawn receipt lists the items as damaged. 
Unfortunately the paperwork  doesnt  list precisely  the extent of the damage to the jewellery, 
and all the photographs  Ive seen appear  show the same damage.  I acknowledge that Ms C 
says theres more damage  now than there  was, but Ive seen no evidence that supports that. 
Thats not to say I disbelieve what she says, simply that Ive seen nothing to support it, 
especially as she acknowledges there was damage to start with. So I cant reasonably say 
that the condition of the jewellery  is worse now than it was when it was left with H&T. 
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think H&T has acted unreasonably or treated Ms C 
unfairly, so I dont uphold  her complaint.  I leave  it with Ms C to decide if she wishes to take 
up H&Ts goodwill offer to repair the jewellery.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4804118