K822xcomplaint
B, a limited  company, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC provided  poor service  and this 
resulted in financial loss.
background 
B had existing accounts with Lloyds. It wanted  to open 15 designated client  accounts in 
October 2018. Lloyds  accepts that it did not respond to the request, even after a complaint 
had been made, and did not send out the correct  forms  for B until January 2019. It has paid 
B a total of £500 for poor service.
Our investigator said that Lloyds had now agreed to pay a further £50 following our 
involvement. It had said it would compensate B for any costs. But B had not provided 
evidence to support  any expenses.
B did not agree. It wanted compensation for the value  added tax (VAT) it would need to pay 
as a result  of not having the clients accounts. It estimated this at £8,729.61. And it also 
wanted a payment for its accountants costs which it said would be £150  to £200. This 
information could  not be confirmed as its accounts were not due until 17 July 2019.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds accepts it provided poor service. Following an initial conversation it had with a director  
of B about the clients accounts  it agreed  to arrange a branch appointment. A request made 
to a local team on 15 October 2018 was not acted on - and nor one on 5 November 2018. 
Lloyds paid B £200 in compensation following a complaint about that. Despite this now being 
dealt with by its complaints team  no action  was taken to arrange  for a business manager  to 
call B. There was further contact and escalation from B. On 8 January 2019 links to the 
application forms were  sent out. An additional £300 in compensation was paid and a further 
£50 is now offered to reflect Lloyds not returning  a call from B on 14 January 2019.
B has made a claim for what is says is the resultant financial loss of the delays and poor 
service. My understanding about the background to this is that B was incorporated  on 17 
October 2017 and it says that its accounts are due to be filed in July 2019. It seems that B 
realised last year that its rolling annual turnover would make  it liable  to pay VAT. As it took 
payments on behalf of clients  it intended  to pay the funds due through designated client 
accounts. And then to only to take its share of that income through  its own account.  B says 
as it has not been able to do so it is liable to pay VAT on all of its turnover which  will make  it 
uncompetitive.
Its estimate  of loss is based  as I understand it on relevant income  from 1 December 2018, 
by when it expected to have the accounts opened, up to April 2019. It said that was 
£43,648.07. And it wants Lloyds to pay it twenty per cent (equivalent to VAT) on this - 
£8,729.61. It says that the account opening forms it has now received are complex and it 
wanted further guidance and an understanding of the process  before  it would  now trust 
Lloyds with money in clients accounts.
Ref: DRN41142812Lloyds says that it did not see that amount of credits  being  paid into any of the four accounts 
for B since 1 October 2018. And that by 17 April 2019 the clients  accounts had not been 
opened despite B having had the correct forms since January 2019. 
I need to consider whether there is a financial loss. B has not provided documentation to 
support what it says about the tax it will be due to pay. Or that this could have been  avoided 
by the clients  accounts.  I dont  know  when  the annual turnover limit was triggered,  when B 
became aware  this was likely to happen and how long it had to mitigate the impact. And B 
has provided no evidence  of any additional  accountants costs resulting  to date from the 
poor service provided by Lloyds. I think its fairly down to B to support its claim with evidence  
and in my view its had a reasonable period of time and opportunity to do so.
Even if I was to accept  that the result  of the clients accounts not being opened by 1 
December 2018  was that there were additional tax payments due Id need to think that was 
fairly the responsibility  of Lloyds. There was no guarantee that the clients  accounts 
applications would be accepted or that B had all the detailed information it needed to provide 
about each of those clients. Those accounts still do not appear to have been opened. I dont  
accept Bs explanation for not following this up to be reasonable. Ive also not seen  any firm 
commitment from Lloyds  about the time it would have taken to open  the accounts  or that it 
agreed to accept any consequential  losses from not doing so within such a timescale.  And 
Im not clear what other  steps B tried to take to mitigate  any costs or losses  including 
considering accounts with another organisation or different trading arrangements.  
Im afraid that taking  all these factors into account  I am not persuaded on balance that 
Lloyds is responsible for any financial  loss to B as a result of the delays it caused in the 
account application process. B has been  caused inconvenience and I think that this is 
reflected in the compensation offered. B has not clearly evidenced any other expenses that 
have resulted. So I wont be asking Lloyds to do more  than it has now offered  to.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part on the basis that Lloyds Bank  PLC will now 
pay B a further £50 in compensation, making  a total of £550 in total, as it has offered  to do to 
settle this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.  
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4114281