K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) made an offer to 
them for mis-sold payment protection insurance  (PPI) but then stated that the refund they 
were due wouldnt be paid to them. Instead they were told any money due would  go towards 
their individual voluntary  arrangement (IVA) which they had previously  completed.
They also said they had previously been  told that their IVA would not be an issue  and 
wouldnt affect their claim.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out six loans with NatWest  between  2003 and 2007. Each loan 
refinanced the previous loan. And with each loan they were sold a single premium PPI 
policy. The premiums for the PPI policies were added to the loans.The final loan taken in 
February 2007 was for £15,800.  The premium  for the PPI sold with this loan was £4,220, 
meaning in total they borrowed £20,020.
Mr and Mrs C got into arrears  with the loan repayments and entered an IVA. The IVA was 
completed in 2017.
Mr and Mrs C complained  to NatWest in 2018 about  the sale of the six PPI policies. 
NatWest upheld the complaints and wrote six separate letters to Mr and Mrs C. The letters  
outlined NatWests offer of compensation for the mis-sale of the policies. In total NatWest 
offered £11,822.44.
Mr and Mrs C signed the acceptance forms which accompanied the letters and returned 
them to NatWest.
They have told us that they received one cheque  which wasnt banked  as they were waiting 
for other cheques. When the other cheques didnt arrive they contacted  NatWest  and were 
told that that all cheques had been  cancelled as they were  going towards arrears on the 
account in relation to their IVA.
Mr and Mrs C felt this was unfair.  They say they were led to believe they were receiving the 
money and as they had completed the IVA they were debt free and should  not be penalised 
for something that was no longer outstanding.
Mr and Mrs C entered  into a joint IVA in July 2011.  This was discharged in November 2017. 
The Insolvency practitioners confirmed they had no longer retained an interest in the PPI 
redress due to Mr and Mrs C.
When Mr and Mrs C were discharged from their IVA, the loan account closed with an 
outstanding balance of £15,998.51. 
NatWest set off the amount due for the mis-sold  policies against the amount outstanding. 
But it offered  a total sum of £75 for any trouble and upset caused by having  a cheque sent to 
Mr and Mrs C and then cancelled. 
Our adjudicator said she didnt think this matter should be upheld but that she said she 
thought NatWest should pay £150 for raising expectations. She told Mr and Mrs C that she 
Ref: DRN41218422didnt think it was fair to pay the redress directly to Mr and Mrs C when there was still an 
outstanding balance due to NatWest  and the full amount borrowed hadnt  been paid back.
Mr and Mrs C also complained about  the information  given  to them  by the claims 
management company  that they used.  The adjudicator  told them  that this wasnt  something 
we could look into.
Unhappy with the adjudicators findings,  Mr and Mrs C asked  for the matter  to be referred  to 
an ombudsman.
They said that they had been  informed that even  if [NatWest]  could  take the money (which 
they were not informed  about) that they should  be left with half the amount.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend  to ask NatWest to do anything more - I think  it has acted fairly 
in paying the amount of redress  to the outstanding account. I will explain why.
Ive looked at the letters NatWest sent to Mr and Mrs C. And on the forms which  
Mr and Mrs C needed to sign to accept the offer it was stated that if Mr and Mrs C had been  
in an IVA then any payment will be made to the relevant account. So I think RBS offer 
made it clear  that it intended to use the compensation to offset any outstanding debt.
Mr and Mrs C have told us there is no outstanding  debt as the debt was cleared and does 
not exist following the completion of the IVA. 
But when Mr and Mrs C entered into the IVA, the debts they owed werent cancelled. And 
they werent cancelled when  they completed  the IVA in 2017. Mr and Mrs C couldnt be 
chased for the debts. However, the debt they had with NatWest  still existed and some of it 
related to PPI premiums,  which  Mr and Mrs C hadnt paid. 
I think NatWest  can use the compensation to reduce the debt outstanding from the final loan. 
In effect Mr and Mrs C owe NatWest the outstanding balance on the loan account, and 
NatWest owes Mr and Mrs C a smaller amount in compensation for the mis-sold PPI. So I 
think its fair for NatWest  to set one against the other. 
It is also worth remembering that although  PPI premiums were added  to Mr and Mrs Cs loan 
account, theyd  only have actually paid all the premium  if theyd  repaid  the total amount 
borrowed. So if the compensation was paid directly  to Mr and Mrs C theyd be getting a 
refund of the PPI premiums which they hadnt  actually paid. And this wouldnt be fair.
I dont know what the claims  management  company that Mr and Mrs C used said to them 
about the IVA not being taken in to account but if they wish to complain about this then they 
should complain  to them in the first instance.
Ref: DRN41218423Our adjudicator told NatWest to pay back £150  to Mr and Mrs C for the upset they caused  
when they raised  Mr and Mrs Cs expectations  and then cancelled the cheques. I think  thats 
a fair way to resolve this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
If it hasnt  already done so National Westminster Bank Plc should pay £150 for the trouble 
and upset caused by the cancelled cheque and raising their expectations.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 October  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4121842