K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly placed late payment markers on his credit file.
background
Mr B got into financial difficulty a number of years ago. He entered into a debt arrangement 
scheme. But he says Lloyds continued to mark his credit file with late payments, even 
though his other creditors placed defaults against his other debts. Mr B feels  Lloyds has 
treated him unfairly. If the bank had recorded  a default it wouldve cleared from his credit file 
after six years. But the markers  are still affecting his rating. So hed like his file to show a 
default on the Lloyds account  from when he entered the debt arrangement scheme  in 2012.
Lloyds said itd correctly  reported the debt arrangement scheme  to the credit  reference 
agencies. And the scheme meant it was unable to default the account.  The late payments 
were recorded on Mr Bs credit file as he hadnt met his contractual  obligations before 
entering the scheme. And Lloyds had noted  on his file that the account was now being  paid 
as part of a debt management  program.
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with Lloyds response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. Lloyds  had been informed about the debt arrangement  scheme in 
October 2012. Our investigator  could  see Mr B had made regular payments under the 
scheme. So he didnt  feel his relationship with Lloyds had broken down. And a default  
wouldnt normally be registered  unless the terms of the arrangement had broken down.
But he felt the markers  on Mr Bs credit file were  showing incorrectly.  There was an agreed 
arrangement to pay in place. So the markers shouldnt  be recorded as late payments. He felt 
the markers  should  show as an arrangement to pay (AP). That was how other  lenders had 
marked Mr Bs file. So he felt Lloyds should  correct  Mr Bs credit  record to amend the 
markers to AP markers after October 2012  when the scheme had been accepted.
Lloyds didnt agree. So its asked for an ombudsmans  final decision. Mr Bs account was 
more than six months in arrears. So the 6 markers  were correct. And the debt arrangement 
was correctly recorded on his credit  file. Lloyds said it couldnt show  the payments as AP as 
that wasnt how the bank reported  in such circumstances.  Itd followed its procedures 
correctly. 
my provisional findings
I took a different view to our investigator. So I issued a provisional decision  setting  out my 
view of the case and inviting further  comment. In summary I said there were two main  issues  
so I dealt with each in turn:
defaulting the account
Lloyds accepted the debt arrangement  scheme  in October 2012. So I think it would 
be fair to say Mr B was trying to find a way of repaying his debt to Lloyds. And the 
relationship between the two parties hadnt broken down.
I would  expect a default to be registered  once the customer was at least  three 
months behind with their payments. And usually by the time six months  of missed 
payments had elapsed. Lloyds  accepted the debt arrangement scheme in October 
Ref: DRN420669022012. So I wouldnt have  expected Lloyds to register a default against the account in 
those circumstances.
Mr B is now making payments towards his debts through the debt arrangement 
scheme (DAS). And Lloyds is prohibited from placing the account in default  under the 
terms of the scheme. So thats not something I can ask the bank to do.
credit markers
Mr Bs credit  report shows a number of accounts marked  as being paid as part of a 
debt management  program. But such a scheme  is likely  to affect a customers credit 
rating while they remain in the plan. Our investigator felt Lloyds shouldve  placed 
AP markers on Mr Bs credit file once he had an arrangement to pay. But he noticed 
Lloyds was using  a 6 marker to indicate  missed payments.
I can see our investigator has had a comprehensive discussion with Lloyds  about  
this. And Ive looked very carefully  at everything thats been said.
Lloyds said Mr B was six months  in arrears on his full monthly payments at the time 
the DAS was entered into. And the bank has followed its procedures correctly by 
recording this on Mr Bs credit  file. Lloyds said the scheme  didnt constitute a 
permanent change  in the payment terms. It was a temporary agreement  and Mr B 
hadnt been issued with a new agreement or account terms. I agree with the bank 
that the DAS is a temporary arrangement and therefore wouldnt affect  which 
markers should be used afterwards.
Based  on what Ive seen I cant really  say Lloyds has done anything  wrong.  It 
wouldnt have been right to put Mr Bs account  into default before  he entered the 
DAS in October 2012. And it isnt able to do so while  Mr B continues  to make 
payments under  the scheme.
Mr B was in arrears on his payments when he entered the DAS.  Lloyds has reflected 
this on his credit file. And the debt management plan is also recorded  on his file. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. Mr B said he still felt the markers were unfair. Hed 
made the final payment to clear  the outstanding debt. But hed have been better off if he 
hadnt arranged  any payment plan with Lloyds.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to see that Mr B has been  able to pay the final balance  on his plan. As Ive said 
previously it is to his credit that he has made  arrangements to repay his debts. And I hope 
he is able to move forward and his credit  file reflects his improved  position  in due course.
I appreciate that Mr B feels hed have been  better  off if hed not entered the payment plan 
and instead allowed the account to be defaulted. And I realise  the markers have appeared 
on his file for a longer period of time that he feels is fair. But Ive not seen anything to alter 
my view that Lloyds hasnt really done anything wrong. And I wont be asking Lloyds to 
change the markers  its reported on Mr Bs credit file.
Ref: DRN42066903my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4206690