K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr and Mrs N say Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Halifax has provided me with a copy of the mortgage and PPI applications. On the 
mortgage application there  is a section titled Accident, Sickness  and Unemployment  
Insurance and I can see Mr and Mrs N have  signed  to select  the PPI under the wording 
Yes, I would like to take advantage of Mortgage  Repayment Insurance. 
The separate PPI application also had Mr Ns details pre-printed and it shows the 
monthly cost and monthly benefit of the policy  Mr N has also signed this application. 
So I think Halifax made it clear Mr and Mrs N didnt have  to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant  remember  this.
From  everything that I have read and been  told I think Halifax recommended  the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs N so it had to check that the PPI was right for them  and based on what  Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For example Mr N wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  and they seem  to have had 
a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs N has said but these points dont change my 
decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs N paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Mr and Mrs N back some  of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs N now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2019.
Ref: DRN48681712Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4868171