K821x#15complaint
Mr T says Elevate  Credit  International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny),  irresponsibly lent 
to him. Mr T says if Sunny  had checked  his borrowing history it would have seen that further  
borrowing wouldnt help him. The borrowing  resulted in a bad credit history for Mr T and it 
caused him stress and anxiety. 
background
This complaint is about one running  credit facility and eight short-term  loans (Ill refer to them 
all as loans in this decision and have numbered them) Sunny provided to Mr T between 
March 2014 and February 2016.  Mr Ts borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount
1 24/03/2014 12/01/2015 Running credit
£250.00
2 20/02/2015 30/06/2015 Instalments £250.00
3 16/05/2015 27/09/2015 Instalments £100.00
4 30/05/2015 27/09/2015 Instalments £100.00
5 13/07/2015 27/09/2015 Instalments   £50.00
6 08/10/2015 15/10/2015 Instalments £250.00
7 25/11/2015 03/01/2016 Instalments £250.00
8 28/01/2016 01/02/2016 Instalments £250.00
9 03/02/2016 26/05/2016 Instalments £250.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ts complaint and thought the loans from loan seven 
onwards shouldnt have been  given as Mr T was becoming persistently reliant upon the 
borrowing. 
Sunny disagreed but initially offered to uphold the complaint from loan eight  but Mr T didnt  
accept the offer. Sunny then made  an offer to uphold  the complaint from loan seven as a 
gesture of goodwill but the offer didnt include the interest we would expect to see.
Again, Mr T didnt accept  the offer.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr T could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
Ref: DRN43789912consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr T didnt  comment  on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to six shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there  is any ongoing  disagreement about  these  loans. So, I 
wont be making a decision about  this lending.  But the loans were  part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr T had with Sunny. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint. After  doing so I have decided to 
partially uphold  Mr Ts complaint as I dont think further borrowing should have been  given at 
loan seven. Ill explain why.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr T, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ts case,  I think that this point was reached  by 
seven. I say this because:
Ref: DRN43789913At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr T was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr T had been indebted to Sunny for 20 months. So Sunny ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mr T was having to borrow further to cover  
the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his finances  and that Mr Ts 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ts first loan was for £250 and loan seven was for the same amount.  At this point 
Sunny ought to have known that Mr T was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. And Mr T was repaying his loans 
early which  can be an indication of someone  juggling to balance  their finances.
Mr T wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan  nine was 
taken out 23 months after Mr Ts first. And it was for the same amount. Mr T had paid 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to Sunny over an extended 
period. 
I think that Mr T lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing  from loan seven 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr T borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Ts ability to access  mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans seven to nine and 
Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
If the outstanding balance  due on Mr Ts loans has been transferred to a third party  (I think  
this applies to loan nine but Sunny has also told us there is an outstanding  balance on loan 
eight as well) Sunny should buy the loan back if it can. If Sunny cant buy the loan back,  
then it needs to work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved:  
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr T towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr T which  
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr T originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr T as though they had been  
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results  in Mr T having made  overpayments then Sunny should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
Ref: DRN43789914Sunny should  then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step 
E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should  be paid to Mr T. However, if there  is still an 
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan 
with Mr T. 
E) The number of loans  taken from loan seven onwards  means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So, all entries  about loans seven to nine should be 
removed from Mr Ts credit file. Sunny does not have  to remove  any outstanding 
loans from Mr Ts credit  file until these have been  repaid, but any adverse information 
recorded about these loans should  still be removed.
                                                                                                                                 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr T still has an outstanding  balance  due, then Sunny should try 
and work  together to come  to a mutually  agreeable repayment plan with Mr T in order to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind Sunny of its obligation to treat Mr T fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ts complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4378991