K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about Mr D and Miss Gs attempts to get a new mortgage with 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). NatWest  told them they didnt meet its 
affordability criteria, but they believe it mis-calculated the figures from the information  they 
sent it. Mr D and Miss G are also unhappy  with how they were  treated by certain individuals. 
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding the numbers  involved. No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont  mention  
something, it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr D and Miss G when  my 
decision is published.
Mr D and Miss G were  existing NatWest borrowers  who wanted to move house. The 
mortgage theyd  need for the new purchase was roughly double the mortgage they already 
had. That meant  NatWest needed  to assess affordability using its internal toolkit  before 
deciding whether a formal  application was feasible.  
There followed an extended dialogue  between the parties about  Mr Ds income. His 
employment status had recently  changed;  hed gone  from being self-employed on contract  to 
a business to being employed by it directly.  Also,  part of his income came from bonuses. 
The bank asked  for three recent payslips, as well as a letter from Mr Ds employer. 
Eventually, NatWest  informed Mr D and Miss G that the amount  they wanted  to borrow didnt 
meet its affordability criteria. They went elsewhere  and applied  for the mortgage, were 
accepted apparently without a hitch, and completed  the purchase of their new home
Mr D and Miss G complained about how NatWest had handled things; they thought it has 
miscalculated Mr Ds annual  income from the figures  on the payslips hed provided.  They  
also objected to how one of its advisors dealt  with them, and were  upset again when the 
next advisor said shed  been briefed by the first.
NatWest issued a final response in which  it apologised  for the time Mr D and Miss G had 
wasted, and offered  them  £300  compensation for their time and trouble. Mr D and Miss G 
brought their complaint  to us.
When it came to us, our investigator thought NatWest hadnt done  anything wrong in the way 
it reached its decision not to lend.  He thought the offer of £300 was fair. Mr D and Miss G 
have asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Ref: DRN44283692Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As a starting point,  no one is entitled to borrow money; even where a lender has lent before,  
its not obliged  to do so again.  But a lender must  treat customers fairly. In the context of an 
application for lending, that means assessing it fairly  in accordance  with the banks lending  
criteria. 
Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not generally made public.  Also, generally 
speaking, its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a lenders commercial  
judgement on how much it will lend, and I see no reason to depart from that position here. 
NatWest may well have made  a bit of a meal  of the process of gathering and then assessing 
the information about Mr Ds income.  But ultimately the decision it reached was one that 
broadly reflected its lending criteria.
I realise Mr D and Miss G think differently, not least because they were able to borrow the 
money from another lender.  But different lenders have different lending criteria,  and that 
includes different approaches to affordability. Just because another  lender was willing  to 
lend to them  doesnt mean  NatWest  was at fault because it wasnt.  
I note also that Mr D and Miss G think there was a personal element to the decision; in that 
they think certain staff members were determined to make sure they didnt get the mortgage. 
Of course thats a view theyre  entitled to take, but its not one thats borne out by the 
evidence. No one likes to be turned  down  for credit, but whilst I fully understand that 
NatWests decision was unwelcome to Mr D and Miss G, it wasnt  unfair, which  is the test I 
have to apply.
Mr D and Miss G say they were concerned for their credit rating. I cant assess  that, given 
that theyve not provided copies of their credit files. But insofar as they never got as far as 
beginning a formal  application to NatWest   and bearing in mind they were accepted for a 
mortgage elsewhere  there seems to be little likelihood  of any damage  to their 
creditworthiness. 
NatWest has apologised for how it handled  things  and offered Mr D and Miss G £300  
compensation. In all the circumstances, I find that fair. Ill leave  it to Mr D and Miss G to 
decide whether,  on further reflection, they want to accept that offer by contacting  NatWest  
directly.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of 
it.
Ref: DRN44283693Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Miss G 
both to accept  or reject  my decision before 9 January 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4428369