K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Miss P and Mr C say Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. Ill explain why.
The PPI started at the same time as Miss P and Mr Cs mortgage. Theres  very little from the 
time of the sale to go on. But given how long ago it was, that isnt surprising. So I dont think 
the lack of information is evidence that anything was wrong  with the sale.
Miss P and Mr C have said they didnt want the cover,  it wasnt  optional and they dont think 
they were aware  they had it. But given the time that has passed, I wouldnt expect them to 
remember the sale vividly or recall all that was discussed. So what Miss P and Mr C have  
said isnt on balance enough on its own to make me think Halifax didnt  give them a choice 
about taking the PPI or added it without  their knowledge or agreement. And I havent  seen  
anything else to make me think that this is most likely what  Halifax did.
Taking everything into account,  what I have isnt enough to make me think  Halifax  didnt 
present the cover  as optional or added it without Miss P and Mr C knowing and agreeing.  
But I can understand why they might not remember this, given how long ago the sale was.
The PPI was cover to help protect  Miss P and Mr Cs mortgage in case of unemployment  or 
disability. Miss P and Mr C have told us Halifax gave them  advice or recommended that they 
take out the PPI. If Halifax did recommend the PPI to Miss P and Mr C, it had to do more  
and check the PPI was right for them. So Ive assessed the complaint on that basis  - which 
places on Halifax a higher level of responsibility  for the sale.  And based on what  Ive seen of 
Miss P and Mr Cs circumstances at the time, I think the cover was right for them. 
For example, Miss P and Mr C werent  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
cover  like any exclusion  for existing health conditions. So it looks like they couldve made a 
successful claim  on the cover if the circumstances arose. Also they seem to have  had a 
need for the cover.
I say this given that Miss P and Mr Cs work sickness  or redundancy pay wouldve lasted 
around six months from what theyve told us. For a successful sickness  or unemployment 
claim, the PPI wouldve  paid out for up to twelve months  and would be paid addition to 
Miss P or Mr Cs work pay. So the policy benefit offered Miss P and Mr C greater security  at 
what could be a difficult time if either one of them were unemployed or too sick to work.
Miss P and Mr C have said the cover wasnt explained. Its possible the information Halifax  
gave Miss P and Mr C about  the cover  wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. But I cant  say 
they didnt want  this type of cover  because  I havent seen enough to make me think  they 
didnt choose  to take it. And, for the reasons Ive given above, it seems  like the cover would 
Ref: DRN44062832have been useful if something  went wrong.  Taking everything into account, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put Miss P and Mr C off taking the cover.
Ive thought about all Miss P and Mr Cs points, including  what theyve said about both being  
in secure full time jobs. But this doesnt  persuade me that at the time Miss P or Mr C couldnt 
in future  have suffered a loss of income due to disability or involuntary unemployment. Ive 
also taken into account that Miss P and Mr C have said they suffered a prolonged period of 
absence from work  for which they believe they wouldve claimed if theyd  been  aware  of the 
cover. But I dont think this means  Miss P and Mr C werent made  aware of the cover  when it 
first started. If they want to try to claim on the policy now for a past period of work  absence,  
they would  need to approach the policy insurer about this separately.
So having  considered all the points  that have been made, for the reasons Ive given above 
these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P and Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4406283