K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC refused to process an application for 
chargeback in respect of services that he says he paid for but were not supplied. He wants  
a refund.
background
Mr G tells us he purchased tickets, using  a credit card, for himself, family  and friends  for a 
music festival in the summer of 2017.  He went to the first day of the two-day event. But he 
says the event was badly  organised. In particular he says when he arrived  there were long 
queues to gain entry and that took over an hour. And once inside he found there were 
insufficient refreshment  and toilet facilities.  He says major congestion resulted in serious 
safety concerns  with the police being called. He also felt the sound at the concert was very 
poor and variable. He says when he contacted Tesco it said it would  process a chargeback 
claim. But it didnt  do so. And he didnt get the promised call-backs when he rang for 
updates.
Tesco said it accepted  there had been  errors and delays.  And that it had failed to get back  in 
touch with Mr G. It said it had offered  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused by the poor service he had received from Tesco.  But it said the decision by its 
Disputes Team - not to dispute the card transactions - was correct. It said as Mr G had 
attended the event it could not say he did not receive the services he paid for.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 29 January 2019. This indicated my 
intention to uphold  the complaint but only in part. Since then both parties  have replied with 
comments - although no new evidence has been  provided. I thank  them for their replies. 
Tesco queried why I was upholding the complaint  when it had already offered the redress I 
recommended. Mr G did not agree with my provisional view. He re -emphasised his opinion 
that what he received  did not fulfil the terms of service he expected. Ive considered the 
responses of both parties but Im not minded to change my provisional decision.  Ill explain 
why in my final decision  which  is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr G and his party had such a disappointing experience at this event. In 
addition to the evidence Mr G and Tesco have submitted Ive read the official report  
prepared on behalf  of the local authority which licensed  the event. Its fair to say its critical of 
the manner in which the event was organised. And that included inadequate refreshment 
and toilet facilities resulting in long queues. It confirms at one point  there were safety 
concerns leading to the arrival  of the police and local authority officials taking control  of the 
event. But it also states these issues were overcome and the concert proceeded on the day 
Mr G attended.
In this case Mr G paid for the tickets by means of his credit card. When credit  cards are used 
to purchase goods  or services a consumer may have the right to seek a refund from the card 
issuer if the goods  or services are defective  or not provided. And whilst I dont apply the law -
directly - I do take it into account. 
Ref: DRN42142952Some cases fall within Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 where theres been a 
breach of contract and/or misrepresentation. But that legislation is limited to transactions  
where the single  item price falls within  certain  limits. The individual  ticket  prices for Mr Gs 
group fell outside these limits so he couldnt  have made a valid claim under Section 75.
Cases outside Section  75 may be eligible for chargeback and Mr Gs claim was dealt with 
under this provision. I should explain that whereas Section 75 is a statutory provision  - to 
which all relevant suppliers of credit are subject - this is not the case with chargeback. 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme offered by card issuers - and is subject  to the rules the 
card issuer  stipulates. In this case the relevant rule relates to Goods or Services  Were 
Either Not as Described or Defective.
The facts  alleged by Mr G are not - broadly  speaking - in dispute. After a lengthy wait to get 
in it seems he initially stayed for around three hours.  But due to the rather  chaotic nature of 
the circumstances and safety  fears  he decided  to leave. The timeline  hes given suggests 
this was about 17.00 - he notes the police had arrived to help try and restore  order.  He says 
he and his party later regained entry at around  19.30. Which meant they missed  part of the 
performance.
As this is a chargeback claim I should  set out our approach in such  matters. And its 
important to understand that chargebacks are decided on the basis of the card schemes 
rules not the relative merits of the cardholder/supplier dispute. So Id have expected Tesco  
to ask Mr G for evidence in support of his claim - which  it did.
Mr G sent emails describing the situation but didnt send supporting evidence. But I dont 
think this in itself would necessarily have led to the claim failing. The events shortcomings 
were widely publicised  and reported  upon  in press and TV. And there was an official report  
which criticised the organisers. Tesco accepts it was familiar with the circumstances as its 
dealt with other claims. The second day of the event was cancelled and so holders of tickets 
for the whole  event  (as opposed  to one day only) were able to claim a partial  refund.
Having looked  at the evidence, Tesco would then normally  start the process of making  the 
claim. But where the card issuer decides there  is little or no prospect of the chargeback 
being successful  it is not obliged to raise the claim.  That is what Tesco decided here. 
Unfortunately - having first led Mr G to believe it would process his claim - it delayed telling 
him it had decided not to do so. Tesco admits this error and has made an offer of 
compensation totalling £240 - which I think is fair. So I shant be asking it do anything else 
about this aspect.
Although the delay  in informing Mr G was regrettable it didnt affect Tescos decision not to 
raise the chargeback. And I can see why Tesco  thought the chargeback  would be 
unsuccessful. Despite the problems,  the event continued on the day Mr G attended and 
concluded about 23.00. And, as far as I can see from the evidence, all except one of the 
advertised performers appeared  on stage. Although performance times were reduced  in 
certain cases. The official report states the police arrived at 16.15  but left at 17.00 being  
satisfied safety concerns  had been met. This seems to coincide with the time Mr G decided 
to leave the event.
Ref: DRN42142953Ive also taken into account Mr G returned  to the event at 19.30. This appears to me 
significant. I can only infer either  conditions  had improved  - as the evidence  suggests - or Mr 
G had decided to accept them anyway. Either way it seems to me he chose voluntarily to 
return. And if a customer knowing  goods  and/or services are below the standard usually to 
be expected - nonetheless decides  to continue to use them - it seems  only fair and 
reasonable he should expect to pay for them.
In summary,  Mr G attended the event which was substantially completed - although 
conditions were at times difficult. But I must take into account that anyone attending a 
popular outdoor event on a temporary site cannot expect the same  standards  as a specialist 
indoor venue might  offer. And queues for drinks and toilet facilities  dont seem to me to 
provide a sound basis for a refund. Whilst I accept  safety concerns  were raised - by the time 
Mr G first left it had been decided the event could continue.  The police having attended were 
satisfied safety fears  had been  allayed.  And I assume Mr G wouldnt have returned if hed 
believed otherwise.
Faced with these facts  I think Tescos  decision not to proceed  with the chargeback  claim 
was fair and reasonable. It seems  to me almost  certain the supplier of the service (the event 
organiser or ticket agency) would have successfully challenged  any chargeback  claim.  And 
whilst it can be argued that part of the overall  service was defective - there was a substantial 
adherence to the advertised  programme.  At best it might have been  possible to raise a 
partial claim - but for the same reasons I think this would probably  have  been  successfully 
rejected.
Im aware Mr G thinks my decision will set some sort of precedent  and that if Id upheld  his 
complaint in full it would have opened  up bigger issues for Tesco. I can assure  him that my 
decision is made on the merits of this complaint  alone. And what  issues  Tesco  (or any other 
business which receives a similar  complaint) may or may not face in the future  is not a 
consideration. And my decision does not set any precedent - as the decision of one 
ombudsman does not bind another.
I know it will disappoint Mr G but whilst Im upholding his complaint Im doing so only to the 
limited extent Ive indicated.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint  - but only in 
part.
Tesco Financial Services PLC has offered to pay £240 in compensation to reflect  distress  
and inconvenience  resulting from delay  and failure to keep in touch with Mr G. I think  this is 
fair and reasonable.
Im ordering  Tesco Personal  Finance  PLC to pay Mr G £240.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4214295