K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Hoist Finance UK Limited,  trading  as Robinson Way (Robinson Way), 
are pursuing  him for a debt that isnt his.
background
Mr F says that following a burglary in 2002  or 2003 a credit  card account was fraudulently  
opened in his name. The debt that built up was sold by the original creditors,  who Ill call 
company B, to Robinson  Way in 2017.  They have  subsequently been pursuing Mr F for 
payment but he says the account  isnt his.
Robinson Way said that it must be as payments  were received to the account  in 2014
But Mr F was unhappy  with their response and he therefore referred  his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator noted that the application  had been made in Mr Fs name in 2001 
before the burglary  and that thered been  a subsequent change  of address to register  the 
card at Mr Fs current  address  in 2005.  She reviewed company Bs records and noted that 
theyd been in contact with the account holder on several occasions in 2010 and 2012 and 
that discussions had taken place about  financial  difficulties  and late payments. She also 
noted that payments had been received  into the account in 2013 and 2014.  So she didnt 
think there was evidence that Robinson Way had been unreasonable when pursuing Mr F 
for payment as she said there wasnt enough  information to suggest  theyd  been  pursuing 
the wrong person.
Mr F didnt  agree with the investigators view and the complaint was therefore referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr F but I agree  with the investigators view. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Its not for this service to decide whether  a debt is enforceable. Thats  for a court  to decide 
but I can consider  whether Robinson Way have  been fair in pursuing Mr F for payment of the 
debt.
Ref: DRN42447032Here I think they have been  fair in pursuing  the debt as theres evidence  that suggests  the 
credit was provided before the burglary; that the debtor contacted company B on several  
occasions to discuss payments  and that the debtor has made payments to the account 
which has been established in Mr Fs name and registered at his address. It would  certainly 
be unusual for an account  that had been set up fraudulently to receive  payments or for the 
creditor to receive calls so I can understand Robinson Ways consideration that the debt is 
Mr Fs and that they are therefore  pursuing  it.
I dont think their position is unreasonable or that they need to take any additional action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4244703