K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws complaint  against National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) is that it wont  refund 
him money  it took back  from his account when  it believed hed acted fraudulently.
background
Mr W held personal and savings accounts  with NatWest, as well as being a signatory to a 
business account (which he held with fellow directors).
On 29 August 2017, Mr W was removed  as a signatory to the business account. He ought 
also to have been removed from the businesss online banking function at the same time, 
but this wasnt  done.  Mr W accepts he signed a form removing him as a signatory, but says 
didnt know what he was signing for at the time.
On 3 July 2018,  Mr W accessed the businesss online account and transferred £2,000 into 
his savings account. Then transferring  £1,000 into his personal account. He said he did so 
because the arrangement hed had with the business to receive £1,000 a month for his 
expenses while he was off sick hadnt  been  honoured for May and June that year.  So he 
took the money himself. When he told his business  associate hed done this, his associate 
reported it to NatWest as fraud, as Mr W shouldnt have had access to the business  account, 
and knew this. 
NatWest agreed that it shouldnt have allowed Mr W to make  the transaction, and that he 
should have been removed from the businesss online banking  function. And as Mr W 
himself was aware that he was no longer a signatory to the business account,  it believed he 
took the money fraudulently. So it kept back £1,000 in a holding account,  and took £1,000 
back from Mr Ws personal account  after telling him by letter  it was going to do so.
Mr W was very unhappy about this. He says this caused him financial problems; further  
damaged his health; and felt that NatWest had treated him unfairly   especially when he 
called up to query matters  and instead of helping him, a decision was made  to take the 
money immediately from his account, rather  than the following day, as per NatWests letter.
He complained to NatWest, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong in taking back the 
money. Although  it did accept its service could have been better, and that Mr W had suffered 
inconvenience, so it paid him £100 compensation for that. 
Mr W remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Mr W asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that we cant uphold this complaint. 
I know this decision will be disappointing  for Mr W, and Id like to explain why I think its fair. 
Ref: DRN49790162Mr W was in dispute with his business  associate,  and NatWest  became caught in the 
crossfire. As its admitted, it shouldnt have been possible for Mr W to make the withdrawal 
from the business account  in the first place  after hed been removed as a signatory. But 
just because it did happen, doesnt  mean that Mr W was entitled  to the money,  and that 
NatWest was wrong to take it back.
Ive seen the form that Mr W signed to remove himself from the business account.  He says 
this has been  falsified, with further information  added after the event, but theres  no other 
evidence to suggest this is the case. I know he feels very strongly  about  this, but with only 
his evidence to say this, its not enough  for me to decide it was more likely than not that this 
happened. On this basis, I think I can reasonably accept that what the form shows is 
genuine and not falsified.  As such, I believe  Mr W knew he shouldnt have had access  to the 
account, but proceeded in any event  to make the transfer. In doing  so, I dont think  it was 
then unreasonable for NatWest to treat this as fraudulent behaviour, and to take the action it 
did.
For this reason, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask it to pay the money back to Mr W. Nor do I 
think it needs to pay him any additional compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4979016