K821x#15complaint
Miss A complains  about how Lloyds Bank General  Insurance Limited  (Lloyds)  handled  her
home insurance claim.
There have been  several parties involved in this case, including claims handlers and
contractors but for ease  I have referred  only to Lloyds in this case.
background
At the end of July 2018 Miss A made a claim for flood under her home insurance policy with
Lloyds. She said that water had entered the property through  the front and back doors as a
result of heavy rainfall and she also said there  was water coming up from the flooring and
that there  were damp patches  to the skirting  board.
Shortly after this it was agreed that the property needed to be dried out before  any
reparation works could begin. And it was confirmed  that Miss A wouldnt  need  to be put in
alternative accommodation as she wouldnt be without basic facilities in her home. Lloyds
began drying out the property shortly after.
Later in August 2018, Miss A made Lloyds aware  that her son was having breathing
difficulties due to the drying  machines in the property and it was agreed that Miss A and her
family would be moved into alternative accommodation. As Miss A had pets, it was difficult to
find suitable alternative accommodation, but Miss A was able to source an available
property, which was mutually agreed.
Lloyds attempted  to dry out the property  but by the beginning of October 2018, it became
clear that the property  wasnt drying as expected and a leak detection  survey  was instructed.
It took around two weeks for this to be carried  out. At the end of the October the survey
concluded that there was no leak and there was no indication  of why the moisture levels
were so high. The survey concluded  that a different technique should be implemented to dry
out the property.
In November 2018 Lloyds decided to add a further layer  of damp-proof membrane to the
flooring as there were concerns that this hadnt been completed properly when it was initially
installed. Around this time Miss A raised concerns that there  may be an issue with the drains 
causing the damp issue but was told she would need to raise a new claim in order  for Lloyds
to investigate. She decided not to do this and appointed her own specialist instead, who
concluded there were  no issues with the drains.
Between December  2018 and January 2019 Lloyds carried out reinstatement works, and
Miss A was able to move  back to her property during January 2019.
Miss A has raised several concerns about  her claim,  including:
The length of time taken to settle  her claim
How Lloyds dealt with her alternative accommodation, including  the last-minute 
extensions, having  to move between properties  on several occasions  and Lloyds 
refusing to extend her alternative  accommodation at the end of the claim and forcing 
her to move back into a property that she says wasnt habitable. Miss A says this 
Ref: DRN44520562caused her a great deal of stress which led to her taking a week  off work and she 
also says that her son had to stay with a family member.
Miss A is unhappy that no drying  certificate  was issued for the floor and doesnt 
believe the damp-proof membrane was applied correctly. And she says tiles are now 
lifting as there is ongoing  moisture under the floor.
During this complaint.  Miss A raised further  issues that there is now water damage  to 
her kitchen  units which  she believes confirms  that the property wasnt  dry enough 
before her home  was repaired.
Miss A has said Lloyds caused damage  to her contents, including a cooker, kitchen 
table and hall table.
Miss A complains  about confusion as to whether  damage  to her front door was 
covered under this claim.  She says this was initially agreed and a door was ordered 
but that this part of her claim has now been  rejected.
Miss A remains unhappy  that some of her costs havent been reimbursed and would 
also like Lloyds to cover  the cost of the drainage investigation.
Miss A also raised concerns about  some missing  grout in tiling that had been  carried  out and 
that her garden was left in a mess. Lloyds agreed with these points, agreed to jet wash  her 
front and back garden and paid her £50 to apologise.
On 6 November  2020, I issued  a provisional  decision. In it I said:
Miss A has raised several issues  during this complaint, so I have addressed these 
separately below.
Lloydss handling  of the claim
I can see from her correspondence that Miss A was caused a great deal of distress  and 
inconvenience as a result  of the flood. But these types of claims will often be stressful and 
unpleasant, so I have to consider whether there was anything Lloyds did incorrectly that 
caused additional distress and inconvenience  - over and above the upset caused by the 
flood itself.
Miss A is unhappy with the length of time the claim took. I can see that this claim went  on for 
a lot longer than initially anticipated and it took several months for Miss A and her family  to 
be able to move back into her property. But this appears to have been mainly due to issues 
in drying the property and additional  investigations that needed to happen, which  I dont 
think Lloyds could have  anticipated when it initially accepted the claim.
Lloyds has said that it agreed to house  Miss A and her family in alternative  accommodation 
due to her sons health issues from August 2018 onwards, despite  the home being habitable. 
This was initially agreed at eight weeks. Having considered her sons  health  issues and the 
potential problems the ongoing building work in the house may have on these, I think  this 
was the correct decision.
Once alternative accommodation had been agreed for Miss A, I think Lloyds could have  
done more to keep her updated and extend this when it became aware that the works would 
Ref: DRN44520563take longer than they should.  This would have  given Miss A the peace  of mind that she had 
housing for her family.
There were times that Miss A and her family had to move out of the property  as it had been 
booked prior to Miss A moving  in. While I can appreciate that this caused  Miss A additional  
distress and inconvenience, I cant say that Lloyds made a mistake in this respect. This 
appears to have been the only appropriate property  available in the area and I cant  hold 
Lloyds responsible for the fact that it had prior bookings. I can see that Lloyds covered the 
cost of the alternative accommodation on the nights the cottage  was unavailable, which  is 
what I would  have  expected.
I have also seen pictures of Miss As home on the day she was asked to move back into it. 
While some disruption is to be expected, the level of disruption that appears to have been  
present in the house is significant  and it seems that all the habitable  rooms  were being used 
as storage rooms  for the items taken out of the kitchen.  This meant  that the property was not 
ready for Miss A to move into without a significant  amount of work to make it habitable and I 
can also see that some of the tradesmen suggested  the property wasnt ready to move back 
into at that time. So I think Miss A and her family should  have been  provided with some  
additional time in alternative accommodation  to give her the opportunity to have the property 
cleaned.
Taking everything into account  and considering the number of issues  Miss A experienced 
throughout this claim, I dont think £50 compensation is appropriate and I think this should  be 
increased to £500  to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to her by Lloydss 
handling of this claim.
additional expenditure
Miss A has raised some concerns about direct  debits that she would have cancelled  had she 
known she would be out of the property for so long. But I dont  think  Lloyds knew  this at the 
beginning of claim and as these were costs that Miss A always  would have incurred 
regardless of the claim,  I dont think Lloyds needs to do reimburse  these costs.
Miss A has claimed for additional electrical costs that were incurred when she was in 
alternative accommodation. She says this cost her £60 per month above her normal  
electrical costs at home. From the information Ive seen, it seems  that Lloyds has already 
paid this amount  to her as part of the claim. But Miss A says it hasnt reimbursed a total of 
£60 which  was from 3 September  2018, 10 September 2018 and 24 September 2018. 
Lloyds should  check that Miss A has been reimbursed for these expenses.
Miss A has provided evidence of her costs  for removal vans  totalling  around £375. While I 
dont think Lloyds was at fault for the number of times Miss A had to move, I do think  it 
should have covered the costs incurred  in moving  as these were over and above her normal 
expenditure. Lloyds  said that Miss A has only moved once but thats incorrect as her 
accommodation was unavailable at times and she needed to move  her belongings. Lloyds 
has also said that it has already paid some  of her moving costs.  So I think the fairest  solution 
is for Miss A to provide Lloyds with evidence of these  costs so it can consider these. On 
receipt of acceptable  evidence,  Lloyds  should  pay Miss A any outstanding  removal costs 
that it hasnt already reimbursed.
Miss A has also complained that she hasnt been reimbursed for the additional petrol  costs  
she incurred and has provided receipts showing the amount she and her daughter spent on 
Ref: DRN44520564petrol, which she would like to be reimbursed.  Lloyds has calculated  what it believes to be 
the daily journeys  taken  by her and her daughter and calculated mileage costs based  on 
those. It later offered  Miss A a total of £500 to reimburse her for the additional petrol costs. 
However, having considered this, I dont think Lloyds has calculated Miss As mileage 
correctly. I say this because it doesnt appear to have taken account of the fact that Miss A 
dropped her son off in a local town then drove to work and did the same on the return trip. 
These were  additional costs due to the fact that the alternative accommodation didnt have a 
bus stop near to it that he could use - as he would have done  if he were  in his home. Lloyds 
also hasnt taken into account that Miss As daughter  dropped the pets off at her own home 
each morning to comply with the terms of the alternative accommodation then made  her 
usual journey - so this would have incurred  additional petrol costs.
I have also considered the receipts  that Miss A has provided - and while  these do show  that 
she is filling up her car with petrol, she would always have needed to do this. And these 
receipts dont show the additional cost of petrol that was used due to her being moved into 
alternative accommodation. Therefore I dont think Lloyds needs  to reimburse these costs in 
full. But I do think it should recalculate  the additional mileage based on the journeys Ive 
mentioned above.
drainage report  and damp issues
Like the investigator, I dont think Lloyds needs  to cover this cost.  I say that because the 
report wasnt a necessary expense that was required in order  to progress this claim, 
although I can appreciate that Miss A may have  chosen to do this for her own peace of mind. 
I believe both parties  have accepted this part of the investigators findings,  so I havent 
commented on it further.
Miss A has raised concerns that a drying certificate wasnt  issued for the flooring and doesnt 
think the property  was dried out sufficiently before the repairs began. As a result, she says 
she has suffered further damp issues since the repairs have taken place.  Lloyds says it was 
unable to issue a drying certificate as the existing damp proof  course at the time wasnt 
sufficient. It also says that Miss A was already aware there  were  damp  issues  with the 
property. 
However, Lloyds opted to repair the damage  to Miss As property rather than provide a cash  
settlement for the claim, which  I would have expected it to do if it had concerns about the 
property. As Lloyds has now undertaken the repair works to the property  and installed a 
damp-proof course for Miss A, I think its fair that it ensures the work  carried out will be both 
lasting and effective.  Lloyds notes suggest  that the new damp  proof course should have 
prevented up to 99.9% of the moisture from the floor.  So as Miss A is stating that this isnt 
the case and that she is having  issues with damp  after a short period in the property, Lloyds 
should now carry out further  investigations to find the cause of the issues.
the kitchen
I have considered the damage to the kitchen and the notes that are on file. I think Lloyds has 
caused confusion  during  the claim as it seems  to have been  unclear about whether this was 
covered but ultimately, I have to consider whether I think  the doors were damaged as a 
result of the flood, which is the insured event in this claim.
Lloyds has provided  me with photos  of the kitchen after the claim was reported and has 
pointed out that there is no damage  to the cupboards - only to the kickboards  and end 
Ref: DRN44520565panels. And having reviewed the evidence I have, I havent seen any evidence that the 
kitchen cupboard carcasses were damaged as the result  of water ingress into the property. 
However it seems that Lloyds has confirmed in an email to Miss A that a couple of the 
kitchen doors were damaged and would be included in the claim.
As Lloyds  has acknowledged that these were damaged,  I would expect them to cover the 
cost of replacing them if they were able to source  doors that matched Miss As existing set. If 
Lloyds was unable  to source matching cupboard doors, then I would expect it to contribute 
50% of the cost of replacing all of Miss As cupboard doors. As the kitchen carcasses 
werent damaged,  if these  were able to be reused then I think it would be reasonable for 
Lloyds to decline to cover the cost of replacing  these.
Miss A has provided an invoice for the kitchen, but it doesnt provide detail of what  items the 
invoice is for. Miss A should  provide Lloyds with an invoice which includes the breakdown for 
the cost of replacing the doors of her kitchen.  If she is unable  to do that then Lloyds should 
consider how much  its contractors would  have charged to carry out these works and 
reimburse Miss A for this amount.
the front door
Lloyds has provided  evidence that Miss A previously  made  a claim for a damaged front door 
in 2012 and that this was declined. As Miss A has previously notified Lloyds that door was 
damaged, it doesnt  think this damage has been  caused by this flood. Having considered  the 
notes from the previous  claim, I agree that the door seems to have been damaged 
previously and while that damage may have been  caused by damp or previous floods, on 
balance, I think its unlikely that the main  cause of the damage was this event  and therefore  
it follows that I dont  think  Lloyds needs to consider this item further as part of this claim.
items damaged during works
Miss A has also said that Lloydss contractors damaged three  of the items  left at the property 
- her cooker, her kitchen table and her hall table. It is difficult  to prove whether these items 
were damaged by the contractors or some other way. However given the photos Ive seen of 
the property when it was handed  back,  I have no reason to disbelieve  Miss As comments.  
And based on the information shes given and the fact that these  items  were reported quickly  
after she moved back into the property, I find Miss As version of events to be plausible. 
Therefore I think Lloyds should  also ensure that it arranges for these  three items to be 
repaired.
Both parties  replied to say they didnt accept my provisional decision and provided  
comments on each item in dispute.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think this complaint 
should be upheld  in part and Ill explain why.
Lloydss handling  of the claim
Miss A has commented that she believes a higher amount of compensation is warranted due 
to the amount of distress  and inconvenience caused  by this situation. 
Ref: DRN44520566I agree  that Lloyds  didnt handle the claim as well as it could  have done   the works took a 
long time,  some of the information Lloyds  provided about the claim was unclear and Miss A 
wasnt always kept up to date on whether she needed to book further  alternative  
accommodation.
However, I also have to consider that many  of the delays  were caused by the issues  with 
drying out the property before the reparation work could begin   and I dont think Lloyds 
could have foreseen that. And while I realise it was stressful for Miss A to keep moving, I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to hold Lloyds responsible for Miss As alternative 
accommodation having prior bookings.
So while I do appreciate  that this situation  has been  stressful for Miss A, I think much of this 
was caused by the flood  itself and Miss A needing  to move to alternative accommodation  
which is something she requested. So I dont think it would be fair to compensate  for those  
issues.
However, I do think the situation  was clearly stressful for Miss A and Lloyds should have 
done more to keep her up to date and ensure that her alternative accommodation was 
booked for a sufficient  period of time. I also think that Miss A should have been  given further  
alternative accommodation when the works  came  to an end as the property was in a 
particularly bad state and needed a lot of work to make it habitable. So taking  all of this into 
account, I think Lloyds  should pay Miss A a total of £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her by its handling  of the claim.
additional expenditure
Neither Miss A nor Lloyds has commented  on my findings in relation to the direct debits Miss 
A says she would have  cancelled  so I see no reason to change  my decision on that matter.
Lloyds has confirmed that it has already paid the electrical costs and that it gave Miss A the 
option of which electricity costs she has reimbursed   those at her own property or those at 
her alternative accommodation.  It says Miss A opted for the costs of electricity at her 
alternative accommodation to be reimbursed and it has done this. However  Miss A disputes  
this.
Neither party has provided any convincing evidence on this point, but Miss A has specified  
that her costs between  3 September  2017 and 24 September 2017 havent been  reimbursed  
so I think Lloyds should review the amounts she has been reimbursed and check that she 
has received reimbursement for this amount.  If she hasnt  then Lloyds  should  reimburse  
these costs totalling £60.
Lloyds says it has now agreed to pay Miss As removal costs and that this was paid to her in 
January. As Lloyds  has agreed to this cost, I dont think I need  to comment  on it further. 
However Lloyds should  also check that it has reimbursed Miss A the total removal costs of 
around £375.
Miss A has asked us to provide a figure  for petrol costs  to avoid any confusion  later on. 
Lloyds responded to my provisional  decision to say it had already paid for petrol costs in line 
with calculations it had previously provide.
Ref: DRN44520567I have reconsidered  the costs and still consider  that Lloyds doesnt  need to reimburse the 
receipts Miss A has provided it because these  dont show additional mileage costs  only the 
amount spent on petrol. However I still consider Lloyds calculations to be incorrect  based on 
what Miss A told it. However,  I have gone on to calculate the approximate figures for the 
additional mileage  Miss A and her daughter travelled due to staying in alternative 
accommodation. And based on the evidence I have seen, I think the cost of the additional 
mileage was likely to have  been just under £450.
So while I agree with Miss A that Lloyds has calculated the mileage incorrectly,  I note that it 
later offered  to reimburse a total of £500 for petrol costs. So, based on the calculations  I 
have done, I think  its likely that this amount covers the additional cost of petrol  during the 
time Miss A and her family were in alternative  accommodation. And it follows  that I dont 
think Lloyds now needs to make any additional payments to her in respect of the petrol 
costs.
drainage report  and damp issues
Neither party has commented on reimbursement of the costs of Miss A getting  a drainage 
report and I remain of the opinion that I dont think Lloyds needs  to cover this cost for the 
reasons I outlined in my provision decision. So I wont comment  on this issue further.
Lloyds has now said that Ms As property is inherently damp and that her neighbours have 
the same  problems. It says it viewed  the property in 2017 and the same problems were  
apparent then. However in a separate email  to Miss A, I have seen that Lloyds  has advised 
Miss A as confirmed with you in several conversations  you dont have a damp issuethis 
tile can be placed  back easily  by the contractor,  if they felt there  was a damp issue,  they 
wouldnt complete  the works. So the information  I have seen from Lloyds in relation  to the 
damp issues are conflicting and as such, Im not persuaded  that it has carried  out the repairs  
to Miss As property in a way that ensures they are lasting and effective repairs.
Lloyds notes suggest that the new damp proof  course should have prevented up to 99.9% 
of the moisture from the floor. So as Miss A is stating that this isnt the case and that she is 
having issues with damp after a short period in the property, Lloyds should  now carry out 
further investigations to find the cause of the issues. Lloyds has commented that it isnt for it 
to prove  that Miss As property is damp  and I have  considered that. However, as I am not 
satisfied that it has shown the works it has carried out are lasting and effective, I think it 
would be fair and reasonable for it to carry out further investigations.
However, having considered Lloyds comments I would also clarify  that if the cause of the 
damp issues, in the opinion  of the expert,  is the front door or inherent damp issues then I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to take any further steps in relation to the damp 
issues. I say that because, in that situation  I would consider that Lloyds had done everything  
it could to return Miss As property to the same condition it was in before the claim. However 
if it is found that the works it carried out were defective or not considered  to be long-lasting 
and effective in the opinion  of the expert then I would consider that it would be Lloyds 
responsibility to correct those issues.
the kitchen
Lloyds doesnt  agree that it should cover the cost of any of the kitchen doors.  It says that the 
flood damage was caused by water entering  the property, flowing through it and exiting  the 
Ref: DRN44520568property again  fairly  quickly. As such it doesnt think its likely it caused  damage to the 
kitchen doors. 
I agreed in my provisional decision that I have seen  no evidence that the kitchen  cupboard 
carcasses were damaged  by the flood and I would agree  that I could see no visible signs  of 
damage in photos  of the kitchen. However,  I can see that Lloyds has previously 
acknowledged that there was damage  to a couple  of the kitchen doors in December 2018   
so I think it would be fair for Lloyds to cover  the cost of replacing those two kitchen doors.
If Lloyds is able to source  matching doors, then it will be able to replace just the two 
damaged doors  as those appear to have been  the only doors damaged  by the flood. 
However if Lloyds isnt able to source a suitable  replacement then I would expect it to 
contribute 50% of the cost of replacing all of Miss As cupboard  doors as I consider these to 
be a matching set. And therefore,  if Miss A needs  to replace the entire  kitchen as a result of 
the flood, then I think it would be fair and reasonable for for Lloyds to make a contribution  to 
the replacement  of the kitchen. But that is only in the situation that Lloyds isnt able to source  
replacement doors.
Miss A has provided an invoice for the replacement of the kitchen  doors. However it will be 
for Lloyds  to consider whether it can source two matching cupboard doors initially.
Miss A has also raised that one of the doors and some drawers are peeling  more than they 
were previously following  the heaters in the property. But there  is no dispute that the door 
was damaged before the claim, so I dont  think the main cause of the damage here is the 
flood. And it follows that I dont think Lloyds needs  to replace these items.
the front door
Miss A would like the expert to look at the front door as she believes it needs replacing. 
However, whether  the front door needs replacing  or not is not in dispute.  Only items 
damaged by this flood  would be included in the claim and Lloyds has provided  evidence to 
show the door was damaged by a previous  flood  in 2012.
So while the door may need replacing, on balance I dont think  its likely that this flood is the 
main cause of the damage to the front door,  although it may have made  the damage worse.  
So it follows  that I dont  think Lloyds made  an error in refusing to consider this part of 
Miss As claim.
items damaged during works
Miss A has said that Lloyds contractors damaged three items left at the property  her 
cooker, her kitchen table  and her hall table. Lloyds has denied this and says its contractors 
have confirmed that they didnt damage  these items.  However I have also considered  
Miss As testimony, which I find to be plausible. So taking this into account,  on balance  I 
think its likely Lloyds contractors did damage Miss As items while carrying  out the works at 
the property so I think it should take responsibility  for repairing them.
I have also considered Miss As comments that the table is now broken and needs  to be 
replaced. However I dont  think  thats necessary  her testimony has previously been that 
workmen have used  it as a worktop  and damaged the top, so I havent seen any evidence 
that the structure of the table is damaged  and cant be used. And I dont think it would be fair 
Ref: DRN44520569to ask Lloyds  to replace the table  if it can be repaired. So it follows  that I wont be asking 
Lloyds to replace  the table.
putting things right
Lloyds should  put things  right by:
Paying Miss A, a total of £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused to her less any amount already paid to her
Repairing the damage to the cooker, kitchen table or hall table
Lloyds should  check it has reimbursed Miss A the total amount for her removal  costs. 
If there  are any it hasnt reimbursed, then it should pay that amount to Miss A.
Reviewing the receipts its been provided to ensure  that it has reimbursed Miss A for 
her full electricity costs, specifically for the first three  weeks in alternative 
accommodation. If Lloyds  hasnt  reimbursed this amount, then it should do so.
If it hasnt  done  so already, Lloyds should  pay Miss A a total of £500 towards her 
petrol expenses less any amount it has already paid to her.
Reimbursing Miss A for the cost of replacing the two damaged kitchen cupboard  
doors if it is able to find ones that matched her existing kitchen. Alternatively  on 
receipt of a suitable invoice, Lloyds should reimburse  Miss A 50% of the cost of 
replacing the kitchen  doors.
In addition to this, Lloyds should  arrange for an independent report to be carried out to 
identify the source  of the damp issues. It should do this by providing Miss A with a list of 
three suitable experts and allowing her to choose  one. It should  ask for the report to 
comment on:
whether the property  is still damp   and if it is, whether this damp is an inherent  fault 
of the property or due to the damaged  front door
whether the damp proof membrane  Lloyds  installed is sufficient
why the floor is lifting so soon  after it was installed
whether any further works are required before repairing the tiles
Lloyds should  arrange for any additional repairs required  and recommended  by the expert to 
be carried out at its cost, if the expert  identifies that these repairs are required as the result 
of the damp proof membrane not being  sufficient. However, if the independent expert  
identifies that the issues to Miss As property are the result of an inherent damp issue with 
the property or the damaged front door then Lloyds  will not be required to carry out any 
additional work recommended.
Ref: DRN445205610my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint about Lloyds 
Bank General Insurance Limited. It should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4452056