K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about a one flex credit facility  Gain Credit  LLC (trading as Drafty) lent to 
him in October  2016. Mr B says the loan was irresponsibly lent.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this case where  I set out the reasons  why I was inclined to 
reach different conclusions from the adjudicator. Ive attached extracts from my provisional 
decision as an appendix at the end of this decision.  My provisional decision forms part of this 
final decision.
I gave both parties the opportunity to provide further comments  and evidence  before 
reaching a final decision  on this case. The deadline for responses  has now passed.
Mr B didnt provide  a response and Drafty hasnt disagreed with my provisional findings  in its 
response.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information,  I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  Drafty wasnt  wrong to lend Mr B the flex 
credit facility and from the available information, I dont think  it failed to act during the course 
of the credit  agreement, when it should have done.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  Mr Bs complaint 
and make no awards against  Gain Credit LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.  
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN44843282extract from provisional decision
complaint
Mr B complains about  a one flex credit facility Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) lent to him in 
October 2016. Mr B says the loan was irresponsibly lent.
background
Drafty lent Mr B a flex credit  account  with a limit of £700. The facility didnt have an end date and 
had Mr B drawn down the maximum at the start of the account, he would make equal payments of 
around £78 over 12 months.
One of our adjudicator looked at Mr Bs complaint and thought  Drafty did enough  before lending  
the loan facility  to Mr B. However, our adjudicator  thought that Drafty  shouldve stepped in to 
act during the term of the loan as Mr B had developed an unsustainable pattern in the way he 
used the facility.
Drafty didnt agree  with our adjudication  and so the complaint has come to me  an 
ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about  short-
term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  - on our 
website.
Drafty needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B could repay  the loan 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such 
as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure.
Drafty has told us what checks it carried  out. It said searched Mr Bs credit file, asked him about his 
income and normal living costs. From the information Drafty has provided, Mr B declared his income 
as £1,400  and his expenses  as £673.  And so he was left with a disposable income of £727. This was 
Mr Bs first loan and as the monthly repayment  amount was low compared  to Mr Bs declared 
income, I think Draftys  checks went far enough.
Mr B was due to repay around  £78 monthly for a 12 month period had he drawn down  the 
maximum at once. So given  his recorded  disposable  income I think  it was reasonable  for Drafty to 
believe he could sustainably afford to repay this loan at outset.
As it was an open ended  credit facility, Drafty  had a duty to monitor Mr Bs repayment record and 
step in when  there  were signs of repayment difficulties. So it was reasonable to expect Drafty to 
monitor how this facility was used over the term and so Ive considered Mr Bs repayment record and 
whether Drafty didnt act when it shouldve done.
I can see that within a few days of taking out this loan, Mr B drew down  up to his limit of £700.  And 
over the next four months, every time Mr B repaid  some of the capital, he borrowed the same amount 
which then took him back up to his limit.
So for example  in November and December  2016, Mr B repaid £35 of his capital and within  a short 
space of time he borrowed £35 again  taking  him back his limit.
Ref: DRN44843283In March  2017, Mr B missed a repayment and I can see from then he didnt make any further 
payments or drawdowns.  In August 2017, after Mr B complained to Drafty, it suspended his account  
and there  appears to still be outstanding balance  on the account.
I accept  that Mr B was repaying the minimum on his balance and then drawing it down again to the 
limit. But as that happened for four months,  I dont consider that this was long enough  to have 
alerted Drafty  that a pattern had formed and that Mr B was having difficulties  repaying his loan. 
Further, Mr B continued to meet the minimum repayment until around July 2017 and in that time he 
didnt make any drawdowns. Mr B had effectively been able to go for around 5 months without 
needing a drawdown.
These circumstances altogether wouldnt have reasonably alerted Drafty that Mr B may have been 
having financial difficulties  and I cant see that he made Drafty aware of any financial  difficulties. Even 
when Mr B complained about the loan in August 2017, I cant see that he told Drafty he had financial 
difficulties but I think  that as he had missed a number of payments by then, Drafty could reasonably  
believe that he was struggling  financially. I wouldnt expect that from that point it wouldve been 
reasonable for Drafty to continue lending to Mr B or for it to continue charging interest and I cant see 
that it did either.
Because of these factors, I cant conclude  that Drafty shouldve done more.  I think  it acted  
reasonably during the term of this facility. And so I dont think  Drafty has done anything  wrong.
As theres still an outstanding balance, Id remind Drafty of its duty to treat Mr B
sympathetically and positively.
end of extract.
Ref: DRN4484328