K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK plc closed his account  and logged information about  
him with CIFAS, the UKs fraud alert service.
background
Mr S had an account with Barclays.  Over several days  at the end of December 2017 and in 
early January 2018 the account  received  a large number of credits by way of bank  transfers 
from a number of different  sources.  At around the same time, cash  machine and assisted 
service device (or ASD) withdrawals were  made  from the account; these totalled over 
£4,300. But for the credits to the account, its balance would have been just a few pounds; 
those credits were however sufficient that the withdrawals were successful. After theyd been  
made, Mr Ss account balance was just a few pence. 
Barclays then received notification from a number  of other  banks, each saying that their 
customer had been the victim  of a fraud; in short, money had been transferred from their 
customers accounts to Mr Ss account with Barclays. Barclays accepted  what the other 
banks had said and wrote to Mr S to tell him his account would be closed in two months. In 
addition, it logged information with CIFAS. 
Mr S has explained that, some months later, he tried to open a new bank account with other 
providers. He was unable to do so because  of the information that Barclays had logged  
about him. He said he knew  nothing about the activity on his account in December 2017 and 
January 2018  and so felt hed been unfairly treated by Barclays.  The bank thought however 
that it had been justified  in acting as it did. 
Mr S referred the matter to this service,  and one of our investigators considered it. She 
broadly agreed  with Barclays, however,  and didnt recommend that it remove the CIFAS 
marker or compensate Mr S. He didnt accept her recommendations and asked that an 
ombudsman review them. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
I accept that the payments made to Mr Ss account  were fraudulent   in the sense that the 
holders of the accounts from which they were made either didnt authorise  them  or were  
tricked into making them. Their own banks would have investigated  them before reaching 
that conclusion  and contacting Barclays. Of itself, however, that doesnt  mean  that Mr S was 
involved or knew about them; its possible to make payments  to someones bank account 
without their knowledge and having only the accounts sort code and number. 
Its most  unlikely however  that someone would have fraudulently paid money into Mr Ss 
account unless  they were  confident that they would  then be able to withdraw it or transfer it 
to another account from which they could  withdraw it. Its likely therefore that the same 
person or group of people  were responsible for the payments to Mr Ss account and the 
withdrawals from it. Ive considered therefore how the money was withdrawn.  
The withdrawals were  all made using Mr Ss genuine card and PIN. In the case of the ASD 
withdrawals, its likely that Mr Ss date of birth would have been needed as well. Mr S says 
Ref: DRN43434732that his card was missing,  but that he hadnt  noticed  that until Barclays  contacted him about 
the account activity.  Even if I accept however that Mr S had lost his card, that doesnt  explain 
how anyone who found it or took it from him knew his PIN and date of birth. 
I note as well that Mr Ss account was accessed using the banks mobile banking app on 
several occasions while the transactions  were taking place. Mr S hasnt said that his mobile 
phone was missing,  and Im satisfied  he was the person  using the app. The movements on 
his account would have been  very obvious, especially given the low account balance  Mr S 
would have been expecting. 
Barclays was entitled to close Mr Ss account at any time on giving two months notice; in 
some circumstances it could do so without notice  including,  for example, allowing 
someone else to use the account. Im satisfied that Barclays treated Mr S fairly  in reaching 
its decision to close the account. 
In addition, Im satisfied that Barclays was justified in placing a CIFAS marker against Mr Ss 
name. I think  it more likely than not that he knew rather more about the account activity  than 
hes told the bank  or this service  even if he hasnt  directly  benefited  from that activity. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Ss complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept  or reject  my decision  before 11 June 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4343473