K821x#15complaint
In summary  Mrs P says that Barclays Bank UK Plc provided misinformation and poor service 
when dealing with her current account. And it applied charges to her account when it had 
agreed not to.
background 
In June 2018 Mrs P contacted Barclays financial assistance team  following advice from a 
Barclays staff member.  An informal payment arrangement was set up, which meant her 
account wouldnt incur  any charges from June 2018  to November 2018.
The complaint arose  because  Mrs P didnt think Barclays  followed  through on what  it had 
promised. It wrote to her saying the plan proposal  had been rejected and the account would 
be closed. This concerned her as she felt the letter suggested her credit file would be 
negatively affected.  
Mrs P said this impacted  on her overall  wellbeing  including  an incident when she lost her 
balance whilst not at home and her reluctance to use her debit card whilst on holiday 
through fear of having  transactions declined.
Barclays also applied charges to the account during the period it said it wouldnt.  Mrs P also 
said Barclays advised her to use funds from a savings account to settle her overdraft 
balance, which she feels was inappropriate.
Mrs P says these events caused confusion and great distress  to her during an already 
traumatic time.
Barclays upheld the complaint and apologised.  It also offered £150  compensation for the 
impact caused by the misinformation contained  in the account  closure  letter. Mrs P didnt 
accept this and referred  the complaint to our service.
During her assessment  of the complaint  our investigator pointed out to Barclays that it had 
taken charges when  it said it wouldnt do so. Barclays refunded  these in November 2018. 
Our investigator then went onto uphold the complaint. She recommended  that Barclays 
increase compensation for the upset caused to Mrs P by another  £150 (so £300 in total). 
Mrs P didnt accept and has requested a decision from an ombudsman.  So the complaint 
has been passed to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 August 2019. I explained why I thought Barclays  
needed to pay Mrs P more compensation than it had offered and more than the amount 
recommended by our investigator. 
Barclays accepted  my provisional decision  and Mrs P asked if the amount of compensation 
Barclays needed to pay could be clarified.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Barclays  has accepted  my provisional  
Ref: DRN44739762decision and neither party have made any further  submissions. So I still think  Mrs Ps 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ive set out my reasoning below.
Its clear to me from what  Mrs P has told us and Barclays; that she has been through a great  
deal over the last few years. And her interactions  with Barclays on this matter  havent always 
been helpful.
I also think Barclays mistakes caused Mrs P some concern  and upset. I can understand why 
she might  have been reluctant to use her debit  card on holiday.  
Ive listened to recordings of conversations between Mrs P and Barclays.  Theyre both quite 
lengthy. But Ive not heard anything which suggests to me that what Barclays said to her 
was inappropriate  or unreasonable about  the informal payment arrangement.  
Mrs Ps current account was in credit  at that the time she discussed her financial position 
with Barclays adviser  in its financial assistance  team. She explained  to the adviser that she 
had cleared the overdraft on her current account by making a lump sum payment from her 
sons savings account. But based  on her income and expenditure Barclays  adviser agreed 
to an assistance  plan being  put in place. 
So based  on the information  provided  by Mrs P, I dont  think  Barclays  necessarily did 
anything wrong  by offering to put her on a payment arrangement. I think it was right of it to 
agree to stop charges  on the account for five months and refund charges that had been 
applied. And it explained  that the plan would  last until 21 November  2018,  together with the 
consequences; those being  if it didnt hear from Mrs P after the plan ended, the account 
could close and this could impact her credit file at that time. Barclays  has said that the plan 
was subsequently cancelled but the no charges agreement was left in place.
I do understand that Mrs P feels very strongly  that Barclays advised her to use a child 
savings account  to settle the overdraft. Barclays hasnt been  able to find any calls where 
Mrs P says she was advised  to do this. I dont doubt  that what Mrs P has told us is her 
honest recollection of what  she was told. But I can see that payments had been  made into 
the current account from the child savings  account prior to June 2018.  I simply dont  have 
enough evidence  to conclude she was told by Barclays to transfer  funds from the child 
savings account.  And it would have been up to Mrs P to decide whether or not to make any 
payments from that account into her current account.
Its very unfortunate  that having agreed  to put in place an informal payment arrangement,  
Barclays then sent Mrs P an automated letter which told her that her proposal wasnt  
accepted and her account would be closed. It wasnt explained to Mrs P when the payment  
arrangement had been set up, that an automated letter would be sent even though the 
informal payment arrangement had been  agreed. 
Having listened  to the call when Mrs P phoned Barclays after receiving the letter,  I can hear 
how this came as a shock to her and how upset she was to have received it. And given her 
financial position and the information she had given to Barclays financial assistance  team  
about her personal  circumstances,  I accept what Mrs P has said about the impact this had 
on her. 
The impact  on Mrs P was further  compounded by Barclays when it continued to apply 
charges to her current account, after agreeing not to do so until 21 November 2018. So 
Mrs P had the additional upset and inconvenience  of having to try and resolve this issue.  
Ref: DRN44739763Barclays has accepted  that it made errors  in the way it dealt with Mrs P. And I think its right 
it offered her compensation for the upset  and inconvenience shes been caused by its 
mistakes. But given Mrs Ps circumstances  and the impact on her that Ive set out above, I 
dont think Barclays offer of £300 is sufficient to compensate Mrs P for the impact all of this 
has had on her. 
Given the particular  circumstances of this case and the impact Barclays  mistakes had on 
Mrs P, I think an award of £450 is more appropriate  to compensate  her for the distress  and 
inconvenience shes been caused.  If Barclays has already  paid Mrs P any compensation for 
the inconvenience it has caused her, then it should  pay her additional compensation to make  
the total compensation figure £450.  If it hasnt paid her any compensation yet in respect  of 
this complaint then it should pay her £450.
Barclays has told us that it has reimbursed Mrs P for the charges that were applied to her 
account until November  2018. And I think its right that it has done so. Barclays has also said 
that the informal arrangement didnt have any impact on her credit file. And I havent  seen 
any evidence that it did.
my final decision
My decision  is to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint and I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay her 
£450 in total for the upset  and inconvenience  shes been caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4473976