K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Zuto Limited carried out a check on her credit file having treated her 
enquiry as a loan application after she used its finance calculator.
background
In December 2018 Miss S visited Zutos website. She used its finance calculator which is a 
two-step process which gives an indication of how much she could borrow.  A following step 
is available to users  is to obtain a quote  and this requires  some personal details. It seems 
Miss S used this process, but she says that at point was she made aware that she was 
making an application for a loan.
A little over a week later she received an email from Zuto to say that her application was 
closed, but a couple of days later she received an email from another lender saying her loan 
had been approved. This lender told Miss S that it had received her details  from Zuto.
It rejected her complaint and so she brought the matter to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend it be upheld. He tested  the 
website and noted that after he had checked how much he could borrow  he was signposted  
to get your quote.  He said that this didnt  make it clear that an application for a loan was 
being made. However, it did ask for personal details and at the last one a pop up read: 
Great, were ready to complete your application and By completing your application you 
agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy.
He thought this made it clear at that stage an application was being made before the point of 
submission was reached. He also looked at Zutos  terms and conditions which are available  
on the website.  These  included:
We, potential lenders,  insurers, service  providers and agents may contact you by mail, 
telephone, email, SMS or other electronic messaging service with offers  of products  or 
services that may be of interest to you. By providing  us with your contact details, you agree 
to being contacted by the methods and for the purposes set out in, and in accordance with, 
our Privacy Policy.
He thought Zuto was entitled to share  the information Miss S had provided. He added that 
the reason Zuto closed  its application was that it was unable to make  contact with Miss S, 
but the details had already been  passed to the other lender.
He concluded  that he didnt believe Zuto take any action in regards to Miss Ss complaint. 
Although he thought it may not have been clear  at the outset that Miss S was applying  for a 
loan, he believed it was sufficiently clear before the process was concluded. He also thought 
that Zuto had acted within its terms and conditions in passing  on information to another  
lender. The application resulted in some  soft searches being shown on her credit file, but 
these wouldnt be available to other  potential lenders.
Miss S asked that her complaint be referred to an ombudsman  as she considered some of 
Zutos practices to be questionable and misleading.
Ref: DRN47840012my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Firstly I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service  is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award  redress where  appropriate.  I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have  the power to make rules for financial businesses  or 
to punish them.
Like the adjudicator  I too looked at the Zuto website and explore the options available to a 
browser. I can see that Miss S may not have appreciated she was making an application 
when she went down  the route  of getting a quote.  However, it does ask for a significant 
number of personal details and before it is finalised I believe the potential  applicant is made 
aware that they are making an application.  It is open to them to stop at that point. Therefore, 
I cannot conclude  that she was misled.  
Zutos terms and conditions are shown on the website, albeit after a few clicks and these say 
that an applicants  data may be shared.  As such I cannot say that Zuto did anything  wrong in 
sharing the data. 
I appreciate Miss S feels Zuto has misled her, but I am not so persuaded. It might be that the 
website could be a little clearer, but I cant say that I can uphold  her complaint. As I pointed  
out above I am not a regulator. Finally, I am not aware  that she suffered any financial loss as 
a result of what happened, nor will the soft searches harm  her credit status. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept  or reject my decision 
before 21 November 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4784001