K821x#15complaint
Mr J is complaining about how Aviva Insurance Limited settled  his travel insurance claim and 
surrounding issues.
Background
Earlier in October 2019 I issued a provisional decision saying that I was minded to uphold 
the complaint.  I invited  both parties  to let me have any further  submissions before I reached 
my final decision. Both parties have responded stating that theyve received my provisional  
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Aviva has agreed with the position  set out in my provisional decision. Mr J has responded 
and asked if the award could be increased. Hes also said that hed have booked cheaper 
flights if hed known  his flights wouldnt be covered.
Ive considered what Mr J has said. I see no reason to increase the award made as I think  it 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And when Mr J bought the flights  he hadnt been 
told his claim had been successful. Hed not even had it considered, and Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence  that Aviva  told him the flights would  be covered. Mr J chose to pay for 
those flights and thats his decision and as such hes responsible  for it.
I dont think Mr J has provided any persuasive  reasoning for why I should change my 
position. Accordingly I see no persuasive  reason to deviate from the position as set out in my 
provisional decision as copied below. Consequently I award the suggested settlement (which  
has already been  paid). So Aviva has nothing further to do.
my final decision
For the above reasons and those described in my provisional decision attached  I award the 
suggested settlement  in this complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited.  As this has already  
been paid there is nothing  left for the business to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN49093902COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr J is complaining about how Aviva  Insurance  Limited settled his travel insurance claim and 
surrounding issues.
background 
Mr J has a travel insurance  policy  provided  through his bank.  The insurer of this travel policy is Aviva.  
Mr J was in India with his family. He was due to fly back to England via an airport in mainland Europe 
but the airline  due to fly him ceased operations just before he was due to fly. In order to get back  to 
England he then had to arrange flights which took him firstly to via other airports in other countries  
than those on his planned route. This included  some extra costs such  has hotels and taxis and 
significant delay.
Mr J spoke to Aviva and put in a claim. Aviva  said they wouldnt pay for the flight  from India to 
mainland Europe  because it wasnt covered. But it did say it would  cover some  of his costs  under the 
missed connections part of its policy. So it paid Mr J for his hotel stay,  flights and a taxi on his route 
to England. Mr J queried this amount and Aviva paid a further amount for additional taxi costs. But Mr 
J was still unhappy so he complained to Aviva.
Aviva said it hadnt done anything wrong, so Mr J complained here. The investigator agreed with Mr J 
and decided  that Aviva should pay an additional £100 for distress and inconvenience. But Mr J 
remains unhappy with the overall position. So his complaint has come to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of their complaint.
I have decided to issue a provisional  decision at this stage which allows  both parties one final say on 
the matter as I dont think the reasons for Avivas position have been properly explained  to Mr J.
Ive considered the terms of the travel policy Mr J has. Originally it used a general exclusion in the 
policy not to pay his claim.  But latterly it has explained to this service  that it is using the exclusion 
regarding the airline not being able to carry out its duty to Mr J. I see that it has a general  exclusion 
(no 6) which says the following is excluded: 
Claims resulting from any tour operator, travel agent, airline or other service provider 
becoming insolvent  and not being able or willing to carry out any part of their duty to you.
I can see that the airline Mr J had tickets to fly back to England  with suspended its operations shortly 
before he was due to fly because it had huge debts and was unable to pay them. So I think  this fits 
the exclusion above. As a consequence I dont think Aviva has treated Mr J unfairly in applying  this 
exclusion and not paying for the cost of that flight. 
I think  its correct that if Mr J wants to recover costs of that flight  he should  approach the airline. 
However I do appreciate that might  not be successful considering  the situation  of the airline. But I 
should add that just because the airline might not be able to compensate  Mr J doesnt mean that 
Aviva has treated him unfairly.
I can see that Aviva has stated under its cover that it will cover missed connections.  Having  
considered Mr Js claim to Aviva its apparent that it has paid for taxis, flights and hotel costs that Mr J 
incurred in getting his family home. Its clear  that Aviva has covered  a number of costs which under a 
Ref: DRN49093903strict reading  of the terms it could have possibly avoided  to some degree.  So considering this I think 
Aviva has treated him fairly in the circumstances  in paying  these costs that Mr J has incurred.
I note that the Investigator said Aviva  should pay an additional £100 for the delay  in dealing with Mr 
Js situation. And I can see Aviva has said that this has been paid. I think  this is fair in the 
circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr J found himself in a very difficult position, stuck without flights in a country a great 
distance away  having  paid a lot of money for the flights from India back to England. And I also 
appreciate he had to then source, book and travel  back to England in an unexpected  manner via 
airports and countries he hadnt planned  to visit. Clearly the airline  suspending its operations caused 
Mr J these significant difficulties. This wasnt the fault of Aviva. And Aviva  can only be held 
responsible for things its responsible for. All in all I currently think Aviva has treated Mr J fairly  and 
reasonably in all the circumstances.
As Aviva has already  paid the claim for the missed connections and the extra £100 for delay it is my 
current position it doesnt  have to do anything further regarding this claim. 
my provisional  decision
I am currently minded to award  the suggested settlement  (which  has already been paid).  As such I 
now invite both parties to let me have their responses in line with the guidance at the beginning of this 
decision.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4909390