K820x#14complaint
Miss O has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds decision to settle a claim as a fault 
claim under her car insurance policy. Miss O is also unhappy that UKI failed to tell her about  
its decision. 
background
In March 2018 Miss O was involved in an incident  with another  car. Miss O reported it to her 
insurer, UKI. She said while she was stationary at traffic lights, another  driver attempted to 
overtake her car and caused  a collision. 
Miss O didnt  claim for repairs  to her car as she said they were  minimal. In May 2018  UKI 
closed the claim. It had chased the third party insurer (TPI) for information about a claim but 
hadnt heard  from them.  
In October  2018 UKI received a claim from the TPI. The other drivers version of events was 
different to Miss Os. They said Miss O had veered across into their lane and caused the 
collision. They claimed for repairs to their car. 
UKI decided  to settle the claim on a shared 50%50% liability basis.  So it paid half of the third 
party claim costs. But it didnt tell Miss O until March 2019.
Miss O was very upset  about UKIs decision. She said due to the length of time that had 
passed since the incident, the other driver  might  have  claimed  for damage  that had been  
caused since the incident in March 2018. She said she was denied the chance of obtaining  
CCTV footage  of the incident which could have made a difference. 
UKI apologised to Miss O for failing to tell her of its decision and for delays it caused in 
dealing with the claim. It paid Miss O £100  compensation.  
Miss O remained unhappy and so she asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our investigator thought UKI had reached  its decision  reasonably and in line with the policy.  
Miss O didnt  agree. She feels its very unfair  that she is paying the consequences for 
something she isnt at fault for. She said the other drivers version of events isnt true. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
We cannot decide liability as the investigator  explained. This is the role of the courts.  But we 
can look at whether an insurer has reached  its decision in a reasonable way and in line with 
the policy. 
Miss Os policy with UKI has a very common term which Ive seen in most motor insurance 
policies. This term allows UKI to take over the defence and settlement  of a claim in Miss Os 
name. 
Ref: DRN45803532This means  UKI might  make  a decision Miss O doesnt agree with but the policy allows  UKI 
to do this. Insurers deal with claims all the time and have experience  in negotiating and 
settling them. Inevitably this means an insurer has a good understanding  of what  its likely to 
be able to successfully  defend  and when to decide to settle a claim on the best terms 
possible.
UKI received a breakdown  of the invoiced costs from the TPI which included repairs to their 
car. This was dated May 2018, but sent to UKI in October 2018. 
In this case there were  no independent  witnesses or CCTV. I can understand Miss Os 
comment that the other drivers claim came  several months later.  From what we know, 
CCTV footage  is rarely available after 30 days. So even if it was available, I think its very 
unlikely it could have  been obtained  even if UKI had requested it in October  2018.  And 
because the other drivers claim was within the timescales allowed, UKI had to consider it.
In December 2018 UKI received a final notice from the third party  insurer to settle the claim 
as it held Miss O fully liable for the incident.  But UKI negotiated settling the claim on a 
shared 50%50% basis. 
Based on the information available to UKI, I think it reached its decision reasonably. This 
doesnt mean that UKI  or we  dont believe Miss Os version of events. Ultimately its for 
UKI to decide if the evidence it has is enough to defend the claim  or risk significant  costs in 
escalating a claim where there is a low chance of success. In this case, I think  a 50%50%  
shared fault claim  was the best outcome UKI could achieve.
I think UKI should have  let Miss O know when it received a claim from the other  drivers 
insurer. So I can understand her upset at finding  out a year after the incident that a claim 
had been made and settled as a part fault claim.  Even if UKI had informed  Miss O sooner, I 
dont think it would have  changed the outcome.  But for the distress  it caused Miss O, I think  
the compensation it paid of £100 is a fair sum and in line with awards we give for similar 
cases. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4580353