K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold them  two mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policies. 
Background
In 1998 and 2003, Halifax sold Mr and Mrs P two regular premium  PPI policies  each one 
protecting their joint mortgage repayments if either was unable to work because of disability 
or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint about  either policy should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs P 
disagreed, so the complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Halifax doesnt still have  all the paperwork that was completed at the time of these  sales.  
Thats not surprising,  especially given how long ago the PPI was sold. But its provided 
screenshots from its computer systems that show  Mr and Mrs P answered a number of 
questions in 2003 about their personal circumstances which  related to the sale of PPI. 
Overall, Ive seen nothing to indicate  Mr and Mrs P didnt agree to take PPI in 2003, or that 
they didnt know  it was optional. And, on balance, I think PPI was discussed with Mr and 
Mrs P because of the questions they were asked.  With that in mind, and from what  I know  of 
Halifaxs sales processes  back  then, I dont think its likely that it would have added this 
cover without getting their agreement  to take it.
I find the evidence  from 1998 even more  persuasive  since  Ive seen a copy of Mr and 
Mrs Ps mortgage application form in which  they signed to say they wanted  PPI in a section  
headed Accident, Sickness and Unemployment  Insurance. Theres also a separate, signed 
application form specifically for PPI. So I see no reason to uphold  the complaint on these 
grounds.
I think Halifax likely recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P. That meant Halifax needed to 
take steps to ensure its advice was right for them. Regardless of what  steps it took, I think  
the PPI it recommended  was right for them in any case. 
For example, Im satisfied  Mr and Mrs P were eligible  for the cover  and cant see that theyd 
have found the monthly  premiums unaffordable either. The policies  restricted claims for pre-
existing medical conditions which I note could have  affected Mr P in 1998 and, by the time of 
the sale in 2003, Mrs P as well.
However, based on the available  information, I cant fairly conclude their conditions  werent  
relatively well managed through medication and/or dietary changes or had led to much, if 
any, time off work. Overall, I dont  think the conditions would have given them too much  
Ref: DRN40342612cause for concern when deciding whether to take out the PPI, or would have  meant that the 
PPI wasnt suitable  for them. 
Mr and Mrs P say theyd have received generous sick pay from their public sector  employers 
which meant they didnt  need PPI. But the PPI benefits would have paid out on top of that 
and for up to 12 months per claim (up to 24 months  under  the 2003 policy)   and covered 
them for unemployment too. Given  Mr and Mrs P had taken out borrowing secured against 
their home  and the potentially serious consequences of them  defaulting on their 
repayments  I think  theyd have valued the extra security the PPI provided. 
Halifax also needed to ensure that it gave Mr and Mrs P enough information about  the PPI 
policies for them to decide for themselves if they were right.  Its possible that the information 
it gave them could have  been better than it was, both in 1998 and 2003. But, for much the 
same reasons that I dont think the PPI was unsuitable for them, I dont think better 
information would have changed their minds about taking it. I think they would still have 
thought the PPI offered  them useful  cover at an affordable cost.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr and Mrs P have lost out because  of how 
Halifax sold them either policy.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 November  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4034261