K821x#15complaint
Miss U has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC closed  her accounts and placed a fraud  
marker on her record.
background
Miss U brought  her complaint to the ombudsman  service  after Barclays had closed her 
accounts and lodged a CIFAS marker  against  her name. They  told her theyd closed her 
accounts as shed misused them.  They believed shed either  transferred money out of the 
account after fraudulent payments had been  made  into it or shed allowed someone else to 
use her account.
Barclays had noticed something was wrong when theyd received an alert from another 
bank. That customer had been a victim of fraud  and £14,043.31 of their money had been 
sent to Miss Us account. Barclays  had told Miss U she could access  £184.95 left after the 
fraudulent transactions.
Miss U had been in touch  with Barclays after shed realised she was blocked  from making  a 
payment.
Miss U told us shed allowed a friend to make a payment into her account and then had 
made payments out of her account  on their behalf.
Our adjudicator felt overall the evidence pointed to Miss U knowing about or having 
authorised herself  what happened.  However she didnt think  Miss U knew  exactly why this 
was happening and shed been  duped.  She didnt think it was right for Barclays to lodge  the 
CIFAS marker  as theyd not met the relevant tests.  She asked them to remove the CIFAS  
marker and pay Miss U £250  for the distress caused.
Barclays disagreed  with this outcome and asked  an ombudsman  to review this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, Ive reached  roughly the 
same conclusion as our adjudicator. I have recently  been in touch with Barclays to confirm  
this but they were unwilling to change their view.  Ill now explain my thinking in my final 
decision.
disputed transactions
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
that would  be specific to this type of case. So when  we look at whether a bank has acted 
fairly in closing an account because of fraud, one of the things we consider is whether the 
customer made the transactions themselves or allowed them  to be made. If they did, then 
we generally wouldnt  ask the bank  to do anything different.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions  
themselves, and what Miss U has told us.  
Ref: DRN45410802Miss U told us a friend shed known for a while had asked if they could transfer some money 
into her account. Then theyd asked her to transfer this out to two other accounts. As this 
was somebody she knew,  she didnt ask where the money was coming from. As far as she 
knew she had no reason to distrust this friend. This person lived abroad  and they didnt have 
a UK account so needed some help.
So theres no real dispute  that Miss U knew about  the money coming into her account and 
made three transfers  out. I believe she also may have transferred £300 on 24 August  the 
day the fraudulent  funds  were paid in  to her Barclays savings account. But she also sent 
£339.90 using  a money transfer service to pay the remaining  money from the fraudulent 
funds away. So Im satisfied she didnt benefit  from the fraudulent funds.
accounts closure
So that means as soon  as Barclays were told money that Miss U had received had been 
sent fraudulently,  they felt the evidence showed she knew what had happened.  They  
therefore closed  her accounts  as their terms and conditions allow  them to do if someone has 
misused their account. Although I cant see Barclays carried  out a thorough investigation,  I 
can see why they took the decision to close Miss Us accounts.  In the light of what  they 
thought they knew at the time, I dont think they did anything wrong.
CIFAS marker
The aspect concerning Miss U most is the CIFAS marker placed against  her name on the 
fraud industry database. This marker  will stay for six years and means that she will find it 
difficult to get another account  allowing more than the most  basic  activity.
So Ive looked  at whether  Barclays applied this fairly and in accordance with the best 
practice around applying  these markers.  A business cant apply a CIFAS marker because it 
simply suspects  fraud. Barclays needs  to have sufficient evidence  to back up what  its 
alleging with there being an identifiable criminal  offence. This means,  if needs  be, Barclays  
could have presented clear,  relevant  and rigorous evidence to report Miss U to the police.
Miss U shared with us copies of her WhatsApp  messages  with the friend whod asked to pay 
money into her account. We then shared  these with Barclays. Our adjudicator  felt this 
demonstrated Miss U was duped. And I agree. I dont doubt she knew she was getting  
money into her account and authorised  payments out. Im less sure shed have been  willing  
to do this if shed  known the money  was fraudulent. I dont believe these messages 
demonstrate Miss U knew what was going on nor was she complicit in a fraud.
I accept Miss U could have asked more  questions at the time this all happened but Ive not 
seen any evidence  presented by Barclays  which shows  Miss U wasnt  taken advantage 
of. Ive also noted at the time Barclays made no attempt to get to the bottom  of what  had 
happened. We asked Miss U about  these transactions and she was immediately upfront  but 
I cant see Barclays did a similar  investigation.
Ive looked at the consequences of Miss U not being able to open  a bank account. Theres 
no doubt shes had to rely on friends and her parents to use other accounts so she had 
money whilst  she was a student.  And shes had to get employers  to pay wages into other  
peoples accounts.  This has been  going on for more than two years. Ive also taken into 
account how embarrassing and difficult this must have been for her.
Ref: DRN45410803Barclays has known this services view on this complaint for more than a year since our 
adjudicator first asked  them whether theyd be prepared to accept the WhatsApp evidence. 
Theyve declined  to accept what we think. Theyve  recently shared with me what  CIFAS has 
thought of this case.  
Apparently CIFAS dont think the WhatsApp  messages substantiate Miss Us innocence. As 
far as Im aware CIFAS  has not undertaken any investigation into what  happened in this 
case, nor, unlike us, have they spoken  to Miss U. Nor have I seen any test which says that a 
customer must demonstrate innocence.  
Im satisfied Barclays have lodged a CIFAS marker  when they shouldnt. As they know I also 
believe  taking into account the impact  on Miss U  compensation of £500 should  be paid 
to Miss U.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Barclays  Bank UK PLC to:
Remove the CIFAS marker from Miss Us record; and
Pay her £500  for the inconvenience  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4541080