K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in September 2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms 
part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I wasnt intending on 
upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I asked  everyone to send me any further comments  
and information  before I reached a final decision.
Neither Mr and Mrs B nor RBS responded with anything further for me to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions  I 
reached in my provisional decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold      
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 November  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN46091062copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs B say The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold  them a mortgage payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about  the sale of PPI policy. The policy was first taken out in February  1999 to 
protect Mr and Mrs Bs existing mortgage  and provided cover for Mr B only.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
I currently dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
RBS has told us the sale took place during a meeting. Theres limited information available from the 
time the PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs B in February 1999, which isnt unusual  given the sale took place 
over 20 years ago. As a result, RBS hasnt been able to provide us with copies of Mr and Mrs Bs 
actual paperwork from the time of sale. 
Mr and Mrs B say they were told they had to have the PPI in order to have the mortgage. RBS on the 
other hand says they would have been given  choice about the PPI. As both parties dont agree on 
what happened, Ive come to my own conclusions as to what  was more likely to have happened  
using the limited available information provided by both parties.
RBS has provided  us with information about Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage. This shows that Mr and Mrs B 
applied for their mortgage  in September 1995. As the PPI was added to Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage 
account some  years  later, I think its unlikely  that Mr and Mrs B would have thought they had to take 
the PPI in order to have the mortgage. And I think its more likely that they agreed to it, knowing they 
had a choice.
RBS didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was right for them. But it 
did have to make sure Mr and Mrs B got the information they needed  to decide if it was right for them.
Its possible the information RBS gave  Mr and Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have 
been  particularly about the things it didnt  cover. But Mr and Mrs B chose to take out the PPI, so it 
looks like they wanted  this type of cover. Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like Mr B was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, such as pre-
existing medical conditions. So it would have been useful for them  if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mr and Mrs B have told us that Mr B would  have received six months full pay followed  by six months 
half pay from his employer if he was too unwell  to work. Theyve also told us Mr B had an income 
protection policy along  with life and critical  illness  cover which they could have used to help cover 
their repayments.
Ref: DRN46091063Having thought about what Mr and Mrs B have  said about Mr Bs sick pay, I dont think  this means  the 
PPI wasnt  useful for them. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in addition  to any sick pay 
Mr B would have received  from his employer and would have paid out for longer than he would 
receive full pay. Taking a mortgage is a large, long term financial commitment.  If repayments arent  
met borrowers stand  to lose their home. The PPI would have  covered the mortgage repayments for 
up to 12 months for each claim if Mr B was unable  to work  because of sickness or if he was ever 
made redundant.
Ive also thought  about  what Mr and Mrs B have said about Mr Bs income protection policy  and the 
life and critical  illness cover  they say he had in place. But I dont think this makes a difference  to the 
outcome of this complaint. Ive already concluded that RBS didnt recommend the PPI to                  
Mr and Mrs B, so it was up to them to decide if they wanted any additional  cover, bearing in mind 
what they knew they already  had in place.
So overall, I dont think that any better information would  have put them off from taking out the PPI. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4609106