K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr B says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think RBS made it clear that Mr B didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose  to 
take it. I say this because Ive been  given a copy  of the application form Mr B signed 
at the time. To get the policy a box had to be ticked and Mr B had a choice  about  
doing that or not. I note the box is ticked and Mr B has signed the form. So I think  Mr 
B should have  understood he had agreed to the policy and that it was something he 
could have declined.  
Ive noted  that the application contains the words , We strongly recommend you take 
out this cover. But Ive seen no evidence of a tailored recommendation being made 
in this case.  So I think it most likely  that RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B, so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr B got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him.   
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy  would cost.  But he chose to 
take out the PPI, so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover.  Based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time it seems  he was eligible for the policy and it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI 
cover. And Ive considered that Mr Bs sick pay was statutory sick pay. And Mr B told 
us he had no other means he could have relied  on in that instance,  or if he lost his 
job. This policy could  have paid out for up to 12 months if Mr B was too ill to work for 
a long time, or if Mr B lost his job. So, I think the policy would have been useful to 
him if something went wrong.  So I dont think better information  about the PPI and its 
cost would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
When the policy was sold, RBS expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr B about that. 
Because RBS didnt  tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN47625332what the business needs  to do
RBS has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  RBS should also pay back to Mr B any extra  interest Mr B paid because 
of that.
RBS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr B the difference between 
what Mr B owes and what he wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS should also pay Mr B 8%* simple  interest  if Mr B 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4762533