K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy because he says that Usay Business Limited mis-sold him a private 
medical insurance policy. 
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. Ive attached  a copy  
and it forms part of this, my final decision. In summary, I upheld  Mr Bs complaint  because I 
thought the policy had been mis-sold and I said I was intending to award £250 compensation 
to Mr B. 
Mr B added some further points. In summary  he said:  
He has a record in writing of what was said to him in the policy  documentation  
The information in writing should always outweigh what  is or isnt said in a sales  call 
He relied on the documents Usay  sent and having checked them was happy  that the 
local hospitals he wanted were on the list 
If hed  realised he might not be able to use local hospitals then hed have cancelled 
the policy 
The underwriter of the policy has told him that he shouldnt  have been sent a copy  of 
the hospital list 
The premium for the policy was approximately £163 and didnt provide him with the 
cover he wanted. This only became apparent when  he tried to claim
 
He has paid for a valueless  policy. 
Usay also responded with further points. In summary they said:  
There is no such thing as GP Select  cover and this wasnt  an option.  This was an 
administrative error
Mr B could  have been referred  to any of the hospitals on the list hed been given, the 
issue was that he wanted a specific consultant  the insurer  will not provide Usay  
with a list of the consultants covered
The list of hospitals sent to Mr B was a guide 
At no point was GP Select referenced  during  the call  Mr B could have contacted 
Usay for clarification if this caused him concern  
Mr B was told how the policy worked during  the call  theres  no reason why the 
documents sent after the sale should  outweigh  this
It was fair for Usay to recommend one insurer over the other as they were providing 
advice
Ref: DRN49557412Mr B could  have used his local hospital   it was the specific consultant  that wasnt  
covered. 
So I need to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken into account the detailed  comments made by both parties in response to my 
provisional decision. But Ill only refer to those  which I think  are central  to my decision.  
Having reviewed the further comments  from Mr B and Usay  I still think £250  compensation is 
fair and reasonable because: 
There was an error  on the documentation sent to Mr B. This was important 
information and it contained a reference  to a product which no longer  existed. So I 
still think Mr B was entitled to expect  better  service and to receive accurate 
information from Usay
Usay was selling the policy and giving  Mr B advice  so it was responsible  for 
ensuring that the right information  was given. It isnt for Mr B to have to check and 
query the meaning of GP Select versus  Consultant  Select.  This information was 
wrong and shouldnt have been on the documents in the first place
Im not making a finding on Usays sales process or criticising their general practice 
to provide copies  of the hospital  list to customers. But in this case there  was an 
administrative error which meant that the wrong  information appeared on the 
documents. Its my role to consider the particular  circumstances  of this case  and 
decide if and how Mr B was affected by the wrong information being given
As I explained in my provisional decision I think it was important to Mr B to be able to 
use certain local hospitals. He discounted another policy  with a different provider 
because his local hospitals werent  available  under that policy
Whilst Mr B was told how the policy worked in general terms I dont think the 
recommendation fully reflected what Mr B wanted. Thats because I dont think the 
advisors explanation would have  made  it clear  to Mr B what the impact of the 
consultant select  list was and how it might have limitations on using his local 
hospitals. For example,  Mr B was told by the advisor that the hospital  list was really 
good and included the hospitals  local to him 
Usay says that Mr B would have been  able to use the local hospital.  The issue  was 
that Mr B wanted to use a particular consultant who wasnt approved  by the 
consultant select panel. However, during the sales process, the advisor  didnt talk 
about how the consultant select process  connected to Mr Bs ability to use the local 
hospital. So I dont  think it wouldve  been  clear to Mr B what  would  happen in 
circumstances where  the panel  didnt approve  or couldnt offer a consultant there.  I 
think it would have  been reasonable to draw  this to Mr Bs attention  as I think hed 
indicated that local coverage was important  to him during the call 
Ref: DRN49557413I can see why Mr B formed  an expectation that hed be covered for treatment at his 
local hospital when  his GP referred him to a consultant there. I dont think  Mr B was 
given the full picture of how this policy worked. Ive found  Mr Bs testimony  to be 
consistent, credible and persuasive on this point. I think that if hed been aware he 
might not be able to access  treatment  at his local hospital  in certain circumstances 
its likely  hed have taken out a different policy, as he now has. 
However, I dont agree that the policy was valueless as Mr B could have still used his 
local hospital or sought treatment using an approved consultant from the consultant 
select panel. So I dont think its fair for his premiums to be refunded.  However, I can 
understand his disappointment at not being able to access  the treatment he expected  
to be able to at his local hospital.  And, for the reasons  Ive explained in my 
provisional decision, and above,  I do think compensation  of £250 adequately reflects  
the trouble and upset he experienced as a result. 
putting things right
Usay needs to put things  right by paying  £250 compensation for not giving Mr B clear  
information about the policy which led Mr B to take out a policy  which wasnt  right for him. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint  and direct Usay Business Limited to put things right by doing  what  
Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2020.
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN49557414COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr B is unhappy  because  he says that Usay Business Limited mis-sold him a private medical 
insurance policy. 
background
Usay contacted Mr B following a referral from a price comparison website. Usay  took down  details of 
Mr Bs circumstances and quoted for policies  from three different insurers, who Ill refer to as Insurers  
A, C and D. 
Mr B took out a policy with insurer C, on the recommendation of Usay. He says that when he went  to 
claim he discovered that his policy didnt  include GP selected consultants from an approved hospital  
list, even  though hed been given  the GP Select  Hospital  List during the sales process.  He says this 
meant that the recommended consultant wasnt covered by Insurer C and he couldnt  go ahead with 
the appointment.
Usay issued  a final response saying that the advisor checked that Mr B didnt have  a preference and 
was told that Mr B wanted good local coverage. They also highlighted  a section of the call where  Mr B 
was told that Insurer C worked with an independent body which,  following a GP referral, would  find 
the most suitable consultant for the specific condition  a policyholder was suffering from. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought Usay  gave 
Mr B the right information and that he didnt express any concerns about what was being  offered. She 
also referred to the post-sale documentation which she thought made  it clear  what  the policy  covered 
Mr B for. 
Mr B didnt agree.  In summary, he didnt  think the questions asked were clear and pointed  out that he 
was provided  with the list of hospitals he thought he could  choose from. He explained  that the hospital 
list is irrelevant to the Consultant Select Policy as he was referred to a hospital  on that list but still 
wasnt covered. So I need to make  a decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Usay provided  Mr B with advice about the policy. The relevant rules  and industry guidelines say that 
Usay has a responsibility  to take reasonable  steps to make sure the policy was right for him. And 
Usay should also provide Mr B with information that is clear, fair and non-misleading. 
The key issue in this case is whether Usay  was clear about the difference  between  GP Select cover 
and Consultant  Select cover.  GP select would allow Mr Bs GP to refer him to consultants on a list of 
hospitals. Consultant Select meant that Mr Bs GP would  authorise a referral  to an independent body 
who would find the most suitable consultant  for the specific condition  Mr B was suffering from. 
Im intending  to partly  uphold  this complaint  because: 
When Usay  asked  Mr B whether he had a preference about  certain  hospitals  he said he didnt 
particularly. But I dont think that represents  the full picture. Mr B talked about having used  a 
particular local hospital for tests within  the last two years. And he also disregarded a cheaper 
policy with Insurer A because it would prevent him from accessing two hospitals, including the 
hospital hed attended relatively  recently. So, I think the availability of certain local private  
hospitals was important  to Mr B
Ref: DRN49557415Ive looked at the list of private  hospitals  sent to Mr B during the sales process. I can see that 
the list is headed  GP Select and is dated on the same day as the sale.  Based on the evidence 
Ive seen I think Mr B was given the wrong information about what  hospitals  he could use. I 
think he was given the GP Select list rather than the Consultant  Select list
Usay also sent Mr B an illustration of benefits.  Under the section Hospital List it says GP 
Select Hospital List, which corresponds with the list of hospitals  Mr B was given. As Mr Bs 
policy was Consultant Select its unclear to me why the paperwork says something different
 
Usay did provide  Mr B with information about Consultant Select during the call. But the 
documents he was given referred to GP Select and he was provided with a list of hospitals. 
So, I can understand why Mr B formed the impression hed be able to attend hospitals  from 
that list if he took out the policy with Insurer C. I dont think this information was presented to 
Mr B in a clear, fair and non-misleading way 
The advisor  seemed strongly in favour of Insurer Cs policy, describing it as the clear winner.  
He also talked  about  Usay staff having  Insurer Cs policies and his own personal experiences  
of using  their services
I think Mr B would have acted differently if it had been made clear  to him that he wouldnt be 
able to use certain local hospitals. Hes explained that one hospital  in particular is convenient 
for him. I accept what hes said about this, particularly because  he discounted  Insurer  As 
policy for that reason.  I also note that Mr B has now cancelled the policy and taken out cover 
elsewhere. 
putting things  right
I think  that not being  given  enough clear  information about  the policy  has caused Mr B distress and 
inconvenience. When Mr B made a claim  he was told that he couldnt use the local hospital  that was 
convenient to him. As hes now bought another policy  thats no longer an issue. 
But I think Usay needs to put things right by paying £250 compensation  for not giving  Mr B clear 
information about the policy which lead Mr B to take out a policy which wasnt right for him. 
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Usay to pay him £250 compensation. 
Mr B and Usay have until 6 December  2019 to let me know  any further information  which they think  
may make a difference to the outcome of this complaint.  
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4955741