K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy. The bank cant confirm  where  or when the 
policy was taken out, the credit card was opened in 1982 but the banks records dont  show  
PPI being charged  on the account  until 2002. The policy gave Mr C protection against
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed so the complaint was passed to
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The bank doesnt  have  any paperwork 
from when the PPI was sold which isnt unreasonable as it was so long ago. 
As the evidence is incomplete Ive based my decision on the balance  of probabilities  so, on 
what I think is most likely  given the available evidence and what  we know about how Lloyds 
sold PPI at the time. Lloyds cant confirm the exact  price of Mr Cs policy  but it has given a 
range (from £0.59p to £0.79p per £100 of outstanding balance), and I have used  the higher 
cost for my analysis.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr Cs representative said - that at no point was it 
made clear to Mr C that the policy was optional. But I also have to consider how long 
ago the sale was and how that might affect  what he recalls. Lloyds says its more  
likely than not that the optional nature of the policy was verbally  explained to Mr C 
during the sale.  Without stronger evidence showing the bank didnt make clear  the 
PPI was optional,  I cant  fairly conclude  Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr C without giving 
him a choice, and him agreeing to take it.
Ref: DRN47862932Its most  likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C. This means Lloyds had to 
make sure it was right for him. Mr Cs representative says it wasnt  as Mr C was self-
employed, but given what we know  about  the likely policy  terms its most likely his 
policy covered  self-employed people, and didnt  make  it any harder for them to make 
a successful unemployment claim. His representative also says he would have had 
no difficulty making his payments if he was sick but I cant  agree based  on the 
available evidence. From what  Ive seen Mr C had limited savings. And the PPI 
would have allowed him to use these for other living expenses  or to keep them intact  
for his future needs. He told us he couldnt  recall if he would have received sick pay 
but as he was a contractor  I think this would be very unlikely. And even if he had 
some entitlement, the PPI would have  paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 
months for all accident and sickness claims. Mr C told us he had private health  
insurance, but that wouldnt  help with monthly  credit card repayments  in the same 
way as PPI. So, overall,  I think the PPI wouldve been useful to Mr C if he was sick or 
unemployed.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. However, it seems  he wouldnt  have been affected  by any of the 
exclusions or limitations. I note Mr C had a medical condition at the time of the sale 
but from what hes told us I dont think it was something he would have expected to 
make a related  claim for. So I dont think he would have  made a different decision 
with better information on the likely  exclusion  for pre-existing medical conditions. 
Even at the higher end of the likely price, the policy  wouldve been competitively 
priced, and it was apparently affordable. So, overall,  I think it unlikely Mr C wouldve 
made a different decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance I think 
he would  still have  taken out the policy.
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. But Lloyds
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr C, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank
plc does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4786293