K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.As (Mapfre) decision to decline his claim for lost valuables  under his travel  
insurance policy. 
Mr R purchased the travel insurance  policy through a broker. To keep  things simple,  I will 
refer to both Mapfre  and the broker  as Mapfre, unless stated otherwise. 
background
Mr R purchased travel insurance online in January  2019. He purchased the Black  policy  
and paid an additional premium to upgrade his cover to include  valuables extension cover  
with a limit of £2000.  
Prior to the purchase, he had contacted  a broker to ask whether valuable  items would be 
covered if stored in his checked in baggage.  On the first occasion, he was informed that 
valuables wouldnt be covered in this instance. However, he contacted the broker a further  
two times and was informed his valuable would be covered if lost whilst  stored  in his 
checked in baggage. 
Mr R said he purchased  the travel insurance  policy on this basis. 
Mr R lost his suitcase  whilst travelling, and so he made a claim.  Mapfre considered the claim 
and paid him £3000 to cover his personal  belongings that were  lost with the suitcase. But it 
didnt agree to cover  any valuables under the upgraded part of his cover and referred to an 
exclusion in the policy. 
Mr R complained about this. He said he was told he was covered for lost valuables when 
stored in checked  in baggage. Mapfre agreed  he was given incorrect  information but said Mr 
R was initially correctly  advised during the initial call with the broker  that he wouldnt be 
covered. So Mr R raised a complaint. 
Mapfre wrote to Mr R in April 2019  with its final response letter.  It said whilst it agreed Mr R 
had been given incorrect advice, he should have checked the policy documents and made 
more enquiries about  the advice hed received about being covered. This was because Mr R 
had said hed previously  checked with friends  he knew had taken the policy out and was told 
that lost valuables in checked in baggage wasnt covered. 
Mr R disputed this. He said he took the policy out based on the information provided  to him 
by two agents. He therefore remains that Mapfre should pay his claim for his lost valuables.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved to Mr Rs satisfaction, he brought his complaint  to our 
service.  
Our investigator looked into everything  and recommended the complaint should be upheld in 
part. He said it wasnt disputed that Mr R was given incorrect  advice,  but Mr Rs policy  didnt 
provide cover for lost valuables in checked in baggage. So he recommended  Mapfre should 
refund the premiums  Mr R paid for the additional  cover, plus £250  compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mapfre agreed, but Mr R didnt. He said he was incorrectly  informed  and thinks Mapfre 
should pay his claim because of this. So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN40542252my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whats not in dispute here is whether Mr R was given incorrect advice by the broker. What  is 
in dispute is whether Mapfre should  pay Mr Rs claim  as a result  of Mr R being given 
incorrect information. Having considered  everything, I dont agree that Mapfre  should pay Mr 
Rs claim for his valuables under section R. I will explain why. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy. In Special conditions  section  R 
there are several listed exclusions  that apply to Mr Rs policy. It says that Mapfre will not 
cover Any valuables that you lose or are stolen  or damaged whilst in your checked in 
baggage. 
Whilst I appreciate this will disappoint  Mr R, Im satisfied the policy  doesnt provide cover  in 
the event his valuables are lost whilst  stored in his checked in baggage.  The policy extract  
above clearly states this to be the case. And so I wont  be asking Mapfre  to pay the claim as 
this isnt something the policy  entitles Mr R to. 
I appreciate Mr Rs frustration here given  he was incorrectly informed that he would be 
covered in this instance. But that doesnt  mean  Mapfre should pay his claim because, as 
above, it isnt something the policy provides. But I do agree that hes experienced a level of 
distress and inconvenience, and a loss of expectation as a result. 
Mapfre said Mr R should have checked the terms and conditions of the policy and asked 
more questions about the information he was given. This was because  it said he was initially 
informed correctly that he wouldnt be. And Mr R had also explained he was told by friends  
who had previously held the policy that this type of scenario wouldnt be covered. 
I agree  to a certain degree  here,  however Mapfre also had a responsibility to provide Mr R 
with correct and accurate  information which it failed to do twice.  Therefore, Mapfre  is also 
responsible and should compensate Mr R for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Its important to explain that our awards for compensation are not intended to punish  or 
discipline a business  for an error it has made.  I appreciate  Mr R would have experienced 
frustration, inconvenience  and a loss of expectation given he was under the impression   
and rightly so  that his expensive valuables would be covered by the policy. 
Having taken all the information into account,  I think £250 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Im satisfied this recognises the distress and inconvenience Mapfre  has 
caused him. This is because, as above, Mr R was under the impression his valuables would 
be covered but later found he had received wrong information after he made a claim. His 
loss of expectation that his claim would be paid would have caused him to experience  a level 
of distress and inconvenience. 
I understand Mr Rs expectations  that the claim should be paid.  And I appreciate this will 
disappoint him but I hope he understands my reasons  why I cannot require Mapfre  to pay 
the claim for his lost valuables, which are set out above.
Ref: DRN40542253Mr R paid an additional premium to cover his valuables  with an upgrade  on the policy.  Our 
investigator recommended Mapfre should  refund these  premiums given Mr R said he 
purchased the upgrade on the basis of the information he provided was provided by the two 
agents  that wasnt  correct. 
The exclusion set out above that applies to section R of Mr Rs policy is common among 
most, if not all, travel insurance policies.  Therefore,  Im not persuaded that Mr R would have  
been able to obtain cover elsewhere  to provide  him cover for valuables  that were lost whilst  
stored in checked  in baggage. And so I dont think his position has been  prejudiced  here. 
But Im inclined to agree that he purchased the optional upgrade  based  on the incorrect 
information and so I agree that a refund  of premiums for the upgrade is fair and reasonable, 
plus 8% simple interest to recognise  that Mr R was without these funds for a period of time. 
This is something Mapfre has agreed  to do and so I wont  need  to comment on this further. 
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint in part. I require Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A to do the following: 
Refund the portion of the premiums Mr R paid to upgrade his cover  for valuables 
extension cover; and 
Include 8% simple interest  from the date Mr R paid his premium for this upgraded 
cover, to the date of settlement*; and 
Pay him £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Mapfre to deduct tax from this interest. Mapfre must 
give Mr R a certificate showing  how much  tax its deducted, if they ask for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Liam Hickey 
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN4054225