K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them  four 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr and Mrs N took out PPI with mortgages  that started in 1999,  2001, 2002 and 2004. 
Although they were  joint mortgages, the PPI on each occasion was set up just to cover  Mr N 
for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs N disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  . Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ns complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs N say they took out each of the mortgages and PPI policies during meetings in 
branch. Nationwide has confirmed that the first and last sales  were in branch but they dont 
have any information  about the sales channel for the middle  two sales.  However, as Mr and 
Mrs N have said that they all took place in branch, Im satisfied  that that is probably the case.
Looking at the paperwork for the 1999  mortgage, the PPI is mentioned on the mortgage 
application and also on the mortgage  offer,  where it states that the cost will be £17 per 
month. As previously mentioned, the policy was set up to cover  only Mr N, so that suggests 
there must have been some discussion about  the level and type of cover that Mr and Mrs N 
needed. From the evidence Ive seen, I think that that policy  was most likely presented as 
optional.
There isnt any available  paperwork for the policies  covering the mortgages that went  live in 
2001 and 2002. But from what we know of Nationwides sales processes at the time, I think  
its likely  that the PPI was also presented as optional.
The mortgage offer from 2004 makes it clear that the PPI isnt compulsory. The sales  
happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Ns recollection  of 
events has faded.  It seems to me that they probably decided  to buy the policies, knowing 
that they didnt  have  to, even if they no longer  remember doing  so.
Nationwide didnt advise  Mr and Mrs N to buy the policies, so it didnt need to ensure that the 
PPI met their needs. But it did need  to provide Mr and Mrs N with enough information for 
them to make an informed  choice about whether or not the insurance was right for them.
Although Mr N had various jobs during the period  in question, he has said that his level of 
sick pay remained consistent at between six and twelve months. But the policies would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr N would have received 
full pay for. Mr and Mrs N also had some savings. But having  the policies would have 
allowed them to retain these or use them  to cover other outgoings at what  would have been 
Ref: DRN43396932a difficult time. So I think that Mr and Mrs N had a need for the policies and could have 
benefitted from them.
Mr and Mrs N seem to have actively managed  the policies to ensure that they continued to 
meet their needs.  So for instance, in January 2001 and December 2004, they made  
amendments to the policies to provide an additional level of cover over and above their 
mortgage repayment amounts. This strongly  suggests that they wanted the insurance and 
that they understood what it was for.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide them with as much  information as it should  have 
about the PPI, particularly  about  the things that it didnt cover.  But Mr N wasnt  affected by 
any of those things.  As I think  they had an interest in the policies and understood what they 
were for (that they would cover the mortgage repayments if Mr N was unable  to work), I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  them to change  their minds about  buying 
PPI. So I do not consider  that the policies were mis-sold.
This means  that Nationwide doesnt  have  to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
N. But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs N because:  
In relation to the policy sold to cover the 2004  mortgage, Nationwide  expected to get a 
high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr and Mrs N about that. Because Nationwide  didnt tell Mr and Mrs N, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs N.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs N any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4339693