K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Lowell Financial  Ltd has recorded on her credit file an account which 
has nothing to do with her, and that this prejudiced  her mortgage application.
background
In 2018 Mrs P applied  to a third party for a mortgage, and this was agreed to in principle. But 
when the underwriter checked her credit file, the mortgage offer was cancelled. When  Mrs P 
looked at her credit file, she found  a mail order account listed there which  she did not 
recognise. Since that account was in Lowells  name, she complained  to Lowell  that the 
account had nothing to do with her and must be fraudulent. In support of that claim, she 
pointed out that her date of birth as recorded  on that entry  was wrong,  and that the account 
was in her married name even though it had been opened three  years  before she had even 
met her husband.
After the mortgage  application had been  granted in principle, Mrs P had told the landlord of 
her rented accommodation that she would be moving out. She says that when the mortgage 
offer was withdrawn, she and her child were  left homeless. She blames  Lowell for this, 
because she attributes the withdrawal of the mortgage offer to the account reported by 
Lowell. After she complained to Lowell, the account  was reported to have been defaulted, 
backdated to July 2017 (until then it been  reported  as active).  She says the default is making 
it impossible for her to rent a new home,  and so she is living  in hotels.
Lowell said it had bought the debt in good faith from a third party  at the end of 2016. It had 
sent a notice of assignment to Mrs P at the address recorded on the account  in February 
2017. Prior to this, payments  had been  made to the account for a period of about  eight 
years. Lowell argued that this did not suggest  that the account had been opened 
fraudulently. The address  on the account  matched  an address which Mrs P was linked to by 
other lenders. (Lowell also said, wrongly,  that the date of birth on the account also appeared 
on other loans recorded  on her credit file.)
Mrs P brought this complaint to our Service. She argued that if the debt had been hers, then 
it would  have been included in her bankruptcy back in 2011, but it hadnt  been. She provided 
the bankruptcy order as proof.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that Mrs P used to live at the address  
recorded on the account (she had moved  by the time Lowell bought the debt). He said the 
debt would not have been included in her bankruptcy order automatically, but only if she had 
declared it at the time, so the bankruptcy order didnt prove that this was not her debt. The 
fact that regular payments had been made  to the account between  2008 and 2017 was not 
consistent with fraud.  The fact that the wrong  year of birth had been  recorded (with the 
correct day and month) was not enough to persuade him that the account had been opened 
fraudulently, when weighed against all of the other evidence  in this case.
Mrs P asked for an ombudsman to review her case.  She re-iterated that the account had 
been opened in the wrong name (i.e. her married name). She also said that the account 
must have  been  defaulted before it was sold, so the default should  be backdated to 2016  if it 
could not be removed altogether.
Ref: DRN43395772my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I do not accept that the use of Mrs Ps married  name  proves that the account  was opened by 
a fraudster. It is too much of a coincidence to accept that a fraudster opened the account 
using the wrong  surname,  and that three years later Mrs P met a man with the same 
surname and married  him. I think it is more  likely  that the account was probably  opened  with 
her maiden  name  and then updated  when she told the original lender she had changed  it, 
and that no record  of this happening  was kept after the debt was sold to Lowell. The original 
lender no longer has the original paperwork, so the only record  it had to go on was its digital 
file.
The address  recorded on the Lowell account  is an old address that Mrs P used to live at until 
2015, according to the credit file she sent us. That address is linked  to her credit file by 
several other  third parties, so I am satisfied that she used to live there, although she had 
moved away by the time the notice of assignment  was sent, telling her that the debt had 
been sold to Lowell. However, that isnt Lowells  fault. It can only send correspondence to 
the latest known address.
That is not the address which was provided when the account was opened. But the original  
address is listed in Mrs Ps bankruptcy  order  as an old address she used to live at. 
The only discrepancy  is the wrong date of birth. Contrary to what  Lowell said, that date of 
birth does not appear anywhere else on Mrs Ps credit  file (except in the entry  corresponding 
to the same  debt before  Lowell bought it, where  it is still recorded under the name  of the 
original lender). That is evidence which  tends  to support Mrs Ps case, but I think it is 
outweighed by the other evidence in this case  especially by the fact that regular monthly 
payments were made  to the account  for eight and a half years  by standing order. If (for the 
sake of argument) a fraudster was making  all these payments  for so long, then there  would 
have been no benefit to him in opening  the account  in someone elses name.  If Mrs P was 
making them, and the account was not hers,  then I think its likely that she would  have 
noticed the payments and complained to the original lender long before the account  was 
sold to Lowell. So on balance,  I dont think it is likely  that this account was opened  by 
someone else, but that at some point Mrs P just forgot about it. The last purchase was in 
December 2014,  when she still lived at the address  recorded on the account. She moved  
away four months  later, so she didnt receive the arrears letters, notice of assignment or 
default notice.
The original  lender didnt necessarily have  to default the account before they sold it to 
Lowell. Theres no reason for me to tell Lowell to backdate the default to longer ago than 
July 2017. I dont know why the default  wasnt recorded on Mrs Ps credit file all along,  but it 
should have been, so I cant  say that Lowell was wrong to add it in 2018, backdated to 2017.
There was no prejudice caused to Mrs P by Lowells failure to record  the default  in 2017. 
Indeed, the failure to accurately report the status  of the account was to her advantage, in 
that it meant  that her credit score  was higher than it should have been until the default was 
added in 2018. That was after her mortgage offer was withdrawn, of course, so the default  
did not affect that.
Ref: DRN43395773It is unlikely that the Lowell  account  is what caused  the mortgage offer to be withdrawn. 
I think Mrs Ps poor credit score is likely  to be the result of her bankruptcy,  which  was only 
discharged less than six years before  her mortgage application. So even if this account  had 
not been on her credit  file, the outcome would certainly still have been the same.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4339577