K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Retail Money  Market Ltd trading as Rate  Setter  made a charge when he 
repaid his loan early.
background
Mr J took out the loan with Rate Setter  in 2018 and repaid the loan early in 2019.  He says he 
realised he had been charged just over £1,135 for a loan fee but that fee wasnt disclosed on 
the website when he took out the loan. Mr J says he has been misled  as he believed there 
was no early repayment fee. He says Rate Setter has breached  lending  rules and would like 
the fee refunded.
Rate Setter says details of the loan fee are included in the loan terms and conditions as well 
as the pre contract  information.  It says the loan fee is due if a loan is settled early or if the 
loan runs the full course and so doesnt  accept making a mistake.
Mr J brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt uphold  it. The investigator  thought  
both the loan agreement and the pre contract  information contained details of the charge 
and the amount. The investigator didnt think this was an early repayment  fee as it was due 
regardless of when  the loan was repaid.
Mr J doesnt accept that view and says he relied on information on the website and so had 
no reason to read the credit  agreement.  He says the website information is conflicting and 
says no recalculation is made of the fee if repaid early. Mr J says Rate  Setter has now 
changed the information it records on its website  and it was always his intention to repay  the 
loan early and that is why he checked what was said online.
The investigator looked again  at Mr Js points  but came to the same  overall  view and thought 
Mr J could have cancelled  the agreement if he was unhappy with it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for largely the same  reasons. I realise Mr J will be 
disappointed by my decision.
I have looked  at the loan agreement terms and conditions which  I can see Mr J agreed to 
including agreement about the loan fee. Im satisfied  that details of the loan fee are 
displayed prominently at the start of the document and make  clear  how much  the fee is and 
that it will be due if the loan is settled early. I dont think this was an early  repayment fee as 
it is clear the fee is due regardless  of when the loan is paid off. I am also satisfied  that similar 
information is contained within the pre contract  information which  Mr J would have seen.  So I 
dont think Rate Setter has made  a mistake or acted unfairly  by charging the fee when Mr J 
settled the loan early.
I appreciate Mr J says that information  contained  on Rate Setters website was different at 
the time.  But Im satisfied  that the relevant important information is what  is contained in the 
signed loan agreement. I can see that Mr J says this information was important  to him as he 
always anticipated repaying the loan early. But in those circumstances I would have 
expected him to have looked  closely at the information that was in the loan agreement  and 
not at what I think would have been limited information on the website. I also think Mr J had 
Ref: DRN45814452the usual 14 days  to look again at the contract  after it was agreed and cancel it if he thought 
it wasnt what he wanted. I dont  think it was reasonable of Mr J to simply rely on information 
on a website about a product and so conclude that there would  be no need  to read the 
actual terms and conditions about  something  that was important to him.
Overall Im satisfied Mr J agreed to the loan terms and conditions and so I cant fairly order 
Rate Setter to refund  the loan fee. I also cant look at the size of that fee for the same 
reasons and I have  not seen any evidence that the loan fee calculation  is incorrect.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4581445