K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained about investments  recommended by Chandler King (City) Ltd
(Chandler King) for his pension.
Mr K says £50,000 was invested in a high risk fund of which the adviser  was a director. Mr K
also says his pension  portfolio wasnt balanced and its value went down by about £100,000.
During our investigation Chandler King appointed solicitors to represent it. Ive just referred  
below to Chandler King which  should be taken to mean  its legal representative where 
appropriate. 
background
Chandler King advised Mr K in 2010.  He was already  a client of Chandler King. He had a 
phased retirement plan set up on advice from Chandler King in 2008. The funds in that plan 
included a number  of UCIS (unregulated  collective investment  schemes).
At the time of the advice in 2010  Mr K was 61, married and earning about £160,000  pa. He 
wanted to retire at age 65. His existing plan was valued at about £211,000 and he also had 
a personal pension plan with another  provider worth about £22,000. 
At a meeting  on 30 March 2010  Mr K completed  forms to transfer  his pension plans to a new 
self invested personal  pension  (SIPP). Some funds (£50,000) would be placed with a 
discretionary fund manager (DFM).  Mr K also completed documents to invest £50,000 of his 
SIPP fund in LMG1, an Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS). 
Chandler King sent a suitability letter to Mr K on 30 April 2010 confirming the advice given at 
the meeting. The letter  recorded that Mr K had a balanced attitude to risk and described a 
balanced investor as:
 .. looking for a balance of risk and reward, and whilst seeking higher returns  than might
be obtained from a deposit account, recognises  that this brings with it a higher level of risk
and that the value of their investment may fluctuate  in the short  term. They would feel
uncomfortable if the overall value of their investments were to fall significantly over a short
period and would not be happy to see their capital eroded.
The letter said Mr K was aware that market conditions werent normal and the fund
recommendations and asset allocation reflected that. The letter talked about asset allocation 
and said that usually a model asset allocation was recommended, adjusted  as required. But 
in Mr Ks case  the adviser was going to deviate  away from the norm and allocate a large 
proportion to cash and to funds that had performed well in all market conditions.
The letter included a section headed  Fund  Selection. The adviser said he would 
recommend the following investments and a list was set out. It included an investment of 
£50,000 to be made  via the DFM agreement, £50,000  to be invested  in LMG1 plus the 
following in specie transfers. 
Matrix Asset Based 2 (MAB2) 
Matrix Ascension
Brandeaux Sterling  (the Brandeaux Dual Asset Sterling Fund  which Ive referred to below 
as the Brandeaux Sterling  Fund) 
Ref: DRN45373202Thames River Warrior  
The adviser added:
You have  holdings in the Brandeaux Sterling, [MAB2], Matrix Ascension  and Thames  River 
Warrior funds that I recommend you retain. Therefore these funds will not be sold,  but 
transferred in specie
Mr K complained to Chandler King in February 2015. Amongst other things he said the 
investments recommended for his SIPP  werent  suitable for a balanced risk investor.  
Chandler King didnt  uphold  the complaint  which it treated as being  confined to the LMG1 
investment. 
Mr K referred his complaint to us. Our adjudicator partly upheld the complaint. She didnt 
think it was just about the LMG1 investment. She said the SIPP  portfolio represented a 
higher risk than Mr K was willing to take.  She agreed that the connection between the 
adviser and LMG1 was mentioned but she thought it would have been difficult to distinguish 
between advice and non-advice (in respect  of LMG1) and when the SIPP  had been  set up to 
allow that investment.  The adjudicator said the £50,000  under the DFM agreement shouldnt  
be included  in the redress calculations as Chandler  King wasnt  responsible  for how that 
money had been  invested
Chandler King maintained that the complaint was just about LMG1.  The adjudicator didnt 
agree. Her view was that it was about the SIPP portfolio overall (and which  included  the 
LMG1 investment).  
As agreement wasnt reached  the complaint was referred to me. Ive issued a number of 
decisions which Ive summarised  below.  
my provisional decision dated  2 March 2017
I considered a number  of issues.  In summary  my conclusions  were:
About  the scope  of the complaint I referred  to what  Mr K had said in his complaint 
form and his letter of complaint to Chandler King.  I said it was clear  his complaint 
wasnt just about the LMG1 investment.
I went on to consider that investment.  But I didnt  uphold the complaint about it. I 
considered in detail the documents Mr K had signed. On balance  I accepted  that 
Chandler Kings role was limited  to promoting  the investment.  Chandler  King didnt 
recommend that Mr K invest so I didnt think he could look to Chandler King to meet 
his losses. 
Chandler King wasnt responsible for the funds under the DFM.   
As to the other investments, when it recommended the transfer to the new SIPP,  
Chandler King should have reviewed Mr Ks existing investments and ensured they 
remained suitable for him. And Chandler  King had done that. But the funds, which in 
the main were UCIS,  didnt match Mr Ks balanced  attitude to risk. The portfolio 
wasnt suitable. Especially  as Mr K was also investing in LMG1.  Although Id said 
Chandler King didnt  recommend that investment it knew  about  it and should  have 
taken it into account in looking at the overall risk level of the SIPP portfolio. 
Mr K had changed advisers in 2012. Chandler King wasnt responsible for investment 
decisions after that and allowing  for a reasonable time for the new advisers to review  
Mr Ks investments and recommend any changes. 
Ref: DRN45373203There were  also some  loan notes or shares  in the SIPP provider. But the position 
and whether Chandler King had arranged  that investment wasnt  clear. 
I set out how Chandler King should redress Mr K. 
In response, Chandler King said the complaint had been made too late and we couldnt  
consider it. 
my provisional jurisdiction decision dated 20 October 2017  and my jurisdiction decision 
dated 2 May 2018
I dont repeat here all the arguments and my conclusions. But my view was that Mr K had 
complained within six years of the 2010 advice,  which included  a recommendation to retain 
funds that had originally been  selected in 2008.  His complaint, about the make up of his 
SIPP portfolio,  encompassed the original,  2008,  advice. He wasnt  too late to complain about 
that. His complaint  had been made within three  years of when  he became aware  in April 
2012 when he consulted new advisers   he had cause for complaint. I didnt think  he ought 
reasonably to have  become aware  earlier that he had cause for complaint. 
There was further  correspondence about jurisdiction and, in particular, the 2008 advice. Mr K 
didnt confirm that he was complaining about the 2008 advice. So, in the end, Ive only 
considered the 2010 advice. 
my letter of 26 June  2019
I set out where  we were with Mr Ks complaint  under the following headings.  In summary: 
scope of Mr Ks complaint
As he hadnt made a specific complaint about the 2008 advice, Id now only be looking at the 
2010 advice.
can we consider a complaint about  the 2010  advice?
My view remained that the 2010  advice was in jurisdiction and included  the recommendation 
to transfer existing funds in specie to a new SIPP.  Chandler King had made  a definite 
recommendation to retain the funds.  Mr Ks complaint had been  made  within six years of the 
event and so was in time.  
merits
The complaint should be upheld in part. The advice  to maintain the large number of 
unregulated funds was unsuitable for the reasons Id set out in my provisional decision of 2 
March 2017. In brief, the funds and the SIPP portfolio  didnt meet Mr Ks objectives as a 
balanced investor, especially taking into account that he was also investing  in LMG1.  But  I 
still didnt think his complaint so far as it related to that investment should be upheld. My 
view remained  that Mr K knew  or should  have known that Chandler King wasnt  
recommending the investment and wouldnt be responsible  for any losses  he might  incur.
redress
I wasnt including the money placed  with the DFM  or the shares/loan notes in the 
SIPP provider in the redress. 
Ref: DRN45373204I acknowledged that working out how Mr K should be redressed wasnt  
straightforward. But my starting  point was that Chandler King should  put him, as far 
as possible, in the positon hed be in if Chandler King had given him suitable advice. 
Chandler King should have recognised the SIPP portfolio was too high risk and 
advised Mr K to sell the unregulated  holdings and reinvest  in funds that were  suitable 
for a medium risk or balanced investor.  If some of the funds were suspended and 
couldnt be sold in 2010, Chandler King should have advised Mr K that consideration 
needed to be given to selling if and when that became  possible.  
But if an investment  was illiquid in 2010 and had remained so since that might  mean  
that no redress would be due  any failure  to advise to disinvest hadnt caused  any 
loss as the investment couldnt have  been sold in any event. But the position would 
be different in the investment could  have been sold in 2010. Or if it couldnt have 
been sold then but it later became possible to do so. 
I recognised that ascertaining the position for each of the investments wasnt easy.  I 
said that wed made enquiries  of the new advisers Mr K had appointed in 2012  to see 
what steps it might have been  open to Mr K to take and when to rebalance his SIPP 
portfolio. Wed also got a transaction history and annual statements from the SIPP  
provider. 
I set out the dates  of the in specie transfers, the values attributed and, if the 
investment had since been sold,  the date and the price.
I made a number of points. First it seemed that MAB2 was the only investment that 
couldnt have  been sold in 2010  or since. So no redress was due: even if Mr K had 
been told in 2010  it was too high risk and should  be sold he couldnt have done that 
then or since.
It looks like the Thames Warrior  S Class and Thames  Warrior H Class investments  
may have been illiquid in 2010  but later became  saleable. So redemption requests 
should have been  sent as soon as the funds could have  been sold.
Matrix Ascension wasnt suspended  in 2010.  So if Mr K had been advised to redeem 
his holding he could  have done  so.
Mr Ks new advisers had told us that the Brandeaux Sterling holding could have been 
sold if a redemption request was received  before 1 October 2010.
redress calculations
I included some redress  calculations.  I explained  that where the position wasnt clear  
Id made  some assumptions. I asked  Mr K and Chandler King,  if they disagreed with 
the calculations  and/or  the assumptions, to let us know  and provide evidence in 
support. 
Wed used the in specie transfer values and the dates the funds were transferred
to the new SIPP provider.
As Id explained, no redress  was due in respect  of MAB2. 
For the Thames Warrior Funds  we used the actual dates of sale and the prices 
achieved on the assumption those Funds were sold as soon as possible.
Wed compared  what they were  sold for with a benchmark that broadly represents 
the sort of return a medium  risk investor could expect on the value transferred. I said 
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index was an appropriate 
comparator.
If there  was a loss that had been  brought up to date using the same benchmark.
I said that Matrix Ascension was sold in March 2013 for £52,881.33. But on the basis  
it could have been sold in 2010 Mr Ks loss was the difference between that figure 
Ref: DRN45373205and what £49,590.91 would have  been worth in March 2013 using the benchmark. 
Again that loss has been brought up to date.
For the Brandeaux Sterling investment I said, if Mr K had made  a redemption request 
in 2010, he could have sold his holding before  the Fund was finally suspended on 1 
July 2013. But there may have been a waiting period. So Id assumed  hed have 
been able to sell by, say, the end of 2010  and at the same  price as the in specie 
transfer value.  Again  that loss had been updated.
I attached the supporting data for our calculations together  with extracts  from the 
SIPP statements.
further correspondence and comments 
Chandler King said it had found it difficult to locate accurate  information  about the relevant 
funds and periods  of suspension/illiquidity.  It asked us to share what  evidence wed had from 
Mr Ks new advisers about  being  able to liquidate the funds at the relevant times.  
It also said, if the Thames Warrior investments were illiquid when they were transferred in 
specie in 2010 and only became saleable later, redress  shouldnt be calculated  from the 
date of the 2010 transfers. 
It also said responsibility for advising on the investments passed to Mr Ks new advisers  in 
2012. The new advisers should  have  told Mr K to liquidate the investments. Had they done  
so the investments could and should have been  disinvested in 2012 or early 2013. Chandler 
King could  only be responsible for any loss caused  by the failure  to disinvest between 2010 
(or later depending on liquidity) and the point in 2012 (or early 2013) that the investments 
could have been liquidated. 
In response we explained that Id recognised the difficulty  in finding accurate information.  I 
said the position regarding the Brandeaux  Sterling Fund wasnt  straightforward and wed try 
and get some more  information about that. Wed make some  further  enquiries  with Mr Ks 
new advisers and wed share any further  information that we got. 
Id also thought again about redress for the Thames Warrior investments. If those funds 
were illiquid in 2010 then suitable advice  would have been to sell them as soon as that 
became possible.  Unless  there was any evidence to demonstrate otherwise, Id assume the 
dates on which they were actually sold were the earliest dates they could have been sold.  
On that basis there was no loss flowing from the 2010 advice: the advice should have been 
to sell as soon as possible and that was in fact done. So my view was now that no redress 
was due in respect  of those investments.
I identified an error  in what Id said about Mr Ks Matrix Ascension holding.  Id referred in my 
letter to it having  been sold on 8 March  2013  but the correct date of sale was 26 September  
2012 (as Id said elsewhere in my letter).  The holding had been sold within  three months or 
so of the new advisers appointment.  So, even if they had a responsibility to review the SIPP  
portfolio and take whatever steps  might be necessary  to rebalance  it (including  selling, 
where possible, any unsuitable  investments),  that was done.  
Chandler King asked  us to check the calculation  for Matrix Ascension.  We did that. 
Unfortunately we identified an error. The loss figure was correct but wed updated it from too 
early a date. We revised our calculation and shared it.
Ref: DRN45373206We also made further enquiries with the new adviser  that Mr K had appointed in 2012.  The 
adviser had since  changed firms and hadnt  been able to take any of Mr Ks files with her. So 
she was only able to let us know what she recalled. She said shed carried out research on 
the investments  and she thought shed  suggested  that there was a standing instruction to 
the SIPP provider  to sell at the first opportunity  although it seemed the Brandeaux Sterling 
Fund had been  suspended before that could  happen.
We also contacted  the firm and asked if it retained  any files for Mr K and, if so, if it had any 
evidence which might assist. It provided some  information which weve shared  with Chandler 
King. It included various updates from Brandeaux which had been sent to the SIPP  provider 
and forwarded  to Mr K, fund fact sheets and correspondence about some redemptions.  And 
there was an email from the firms  internal research department sent on 6 August 2012 to 
the adviser which said, about the Brandeaux  Sterling Fund:
50/50 split between two of Brandeaux's flagship funds, the Student Accommodation fund 
and the Ground Rent fund. Monthly dealing,  but 6 month notice period required (and in 
reality, redemptions take far longer  than that to fulfil due to high levels of redemptions  
mismatched against  the illiquidity  of the portfolio's assets). Friends  Provident in their July 
2012 update to investors, said that it had received money from Brandeaux that would allow it 
to pay redemption requests received on or before October 2010. Valuations should not be 
depended upon, and redemptions, even if submitted  now,  are likely to take years to 
execute.
We also accessed Friends  Providents  news archive and sent the link to Chandler King.
Chandler King asked  for details of all the distributions paid from the Brandeaux Sterling 
Fund. We provided a SIPP transaction history  showing those. 
Chandler King accepted the redress for Matrix Ascension. But it didnt agree with using an 
index to calculate redress. It said the FTSE Private  Investor  indices produced artificial results  
that were well above the likely returns an investor would have made and certainly a lower 
risk investor such as Mr K. It said we increasingly  used a 50/50 mix of the of the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income total return index and the Bank of England  average  return from 
fixed rate bonds  with 12  17 months maturity.  It suggested that would be more appropriate 
in Mr Ks case  for any redress ruled  due. 
And, given  the uncertainty about whether or not any redemption of the Brandeaux Sterling 
Fund would have been possible, either in 2011  or 2012/2013 (after Mr K had moved to new 
advisers), it wasnt safe to conclude that Chandler  King should be liable. There  was some 
information about some underlying funds but not others. What the redemption position would 
have been in respect of the overarching Brandeaux  Sterling Fund was anyones guess. 
Chandler King said liability would have attached to the original  2008  advice if that had been 
found unsuitable but that wasnt part of the complaint. We shouldnt, because  Mr K had left 
the 2008 advice out of his complaint, just give him (or his new advisers)  the benefit of the 
doubt about what could have been redeemed and when in 2011 or 2012/2013.
Weve kept Mr K up to date with developments. He hasnt added  anything other than to say 
that, given the length of time the matter has been ongoing, hed (understandably) like it 
resolved now.  
my findings
Ref: DRN45373207Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
I apologise to both parties for the length of time weve had this complaint. Ive set out above 
how our investigation  has developed. To summarise where weve  ended up: 
First, in so far as jurisdiction is concerned, Im not looking at the 2008 advice. I 
remain satisfied that we can consider a complaint about  the 2010 advice, which  
included a recommendation to retain  investments.
For the reasons  Ive set out elsewhere  I dont uphold the complaint about the LMG1  
investment.  Or the money  placed  with the DFM.  Or the loan notes/shares  in the 
SIPP provider. 
I do uphold the complaint  about the other  investments  that is MAB2, Matrix 
Ascension, Thames River Warrior and Brandeaux Sterling.  
Ive considered redress in respect  of each of those investments separately.  
No redress is due in respect of MAB2.  It seems it couldnt have been sold in 2010  or since.  
Even if Chandler King should have told Mr K in 2010 that it was too high risk and he should 
disinvest he couldnt  have done that then or since.
I also agree  that no redress  is due in respect  of the Thames Warrior Funds.  Thats on the 
basis Ive outlined above  that those funds were illiquid  in 2010 but subsequently became 
liquid and were  sold as soon that became possible.  
Redress for the Matrix  Ascension Fund is agreed (but the amount will need updating) and 
subject to the point about  the benchmark Ive selected. Ive thought about that but I dont 
agree that the FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index is inappropriate as a 
comparator.   
Where we say an investment isnt suitable  and were satisfied  that, with suitable advice, the 
consumer would have  invested differently, we often wont know  exactly what the consumer 
would have done. Where its not possible to say precisely what the consumer would have 
done instead, we use a return  based  on a benchmark to reflect what  the consumer might 
reasonably have made (or lost) if things hadn't  gone wrong. The investment the consumer 
would have made if things hadnt  gone wrong  might have done better or worse than this 
benchmark return. But the benchmark  is a broad brush measure that we think  is fair in the 
circumstances. 
Chandler King is right when it says we often use a combination of the FTSE UK Private  
Investors Income total return index and the Bank  of England average return from fixed  rate 
bonds with 12  17 months  maturity as a comparator. But it will depend on the particular 
circumstances, including  the investors risk profile.   
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure for someone who wanted to 
achieve a reasonable  return without risk to his capital. But we wouldnt usually use that for 
an investor who was prepared to take some risk in order  to get a higher return. The FTSE  
UK Private Investors Income total return index  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some  risk  so for an investor with a balanced attitude to risk.  
Ref: DRN45373208We might  use a 50/50 combination of that index and the monthly  average  rate for fixed  rate 
bonds if we thought the investors  risk profile was somewhere in between, in the sense that 
he was prepared to take a small  degree of risk. But I dont see that was Mr Ks position. 
Theres no dispute he was a balanced  or medium risk investor. He was someone  who was 
prepared to take some risk (that is more than just a small degree) in order to get a higher 
return. The index  Ive suggested  is the one wed usually use for that sort of investor profile.. 
The main  remaining area of contention is the Brandeaux Sterling Fund. It hasnt been 
possible to agree what, if any, redress is due. The recommendation to retain that Fund  was 
unsuitable. Mr K should have  been told to sell his holding. But the issues are, if Mr K had 
been told to sell his holding in March 2010 and a redemption request had been logged then, 
whether it would have  been met and, if so, when and what price would have been realised.  
  
Ive thought carefully about that. Ive recognise  theres considerable uncertainty.  And that its 
particularly difficult where, as here, a fund has had periods of suspensions and illiquidity and 
notice periods for redemptions, to find evidence, some years  after the event, which  shows  
what would  have happened, had a redemption request been made at a particular given time. 
Im mindful of the fact, that given the time thats elapsed,  evidence which it might have been 
able to locate  earlier is no longer  available.
But it wont  necessarily be right to say that simply because  the position  is difficult  I should 
assume the holding  couldnt have been  sold. What  I need to do is look at such evidence as 
there is and see if I can reach  a decision on the balance of probabilities   that is what I think 
is likely  to have happened. Ive done  that with the Thames Warrior Funds.  Ive said, and in 
the absence of evidence to show otherwise, that they were  sold as soon  it became  possible 
to do so (and which means that theres  no loss attributable to Chandler  King and the 
unsuitable advice  it gave in 2010). 
Id emphasise that Im only looking at what loss, if any, flowed from Chandler Kings 2010 
advice. As Ive said, Im not considering the earlier 2008 advice. So, it isnt the case that, in 
considering redress  for unsuitable advice in 2010,  Im trying  to put right any unsuitable 
advice in 2008. Ive approached the question  of what, if any, redress  is due just from the 
perspective of what happened  in 2010  that is Chandler Kings failure to identify that Mr Ks 
SIPP portfolio  was too risky and its failure to advise him to sell his holding  in the Brandeaux 
Sterling Fund (and other higher risk investments) to rebalance the portfolio.   
In deciding what is likely to have  happened in 2010  with the Brandeaux Sterling  Fund Ive 
borne in mind  that it (along with the other  Brandeaux Funds) wasnt  finally suspended until 
July 2013, over three years later. So, on the face of it at least, there  was a reasonable 
window to redeem  before then.
Ive also taken into account that redemptions  were subject to a notice or a waiting period. If 
Mr K had been advised in March 2010 to try to sell his holding,  his redemption  request  would  
have been made at around the time the Brandeaux Sterling Fund  (and other Brandeaux 
Funds) was being  relaunched. Fund  updates issued in March/April 2010  report the re-
opening of the Brandeaux Funds  (including  the Dual Asset  Funds). Existing (suspended) 
shares in the Funds were  to be converted to A shares. And the seven day redemption  
notice period was to be replaced with a six month  redemption notice period. 
Id assume that considerable resource,  attention  and planning had gone into the 
restructuring and relaunch of the Funds. And that the introduction of a six month redemption  
notice period (which  there was discretion to advance) was a realistic assessment of how 
Ref: DRN45373209long it should  take to redeem an investors  holding, the previous seven day period having 
proved unworkable. 
Against that background I dont think its unreasonable  to say (and in the absence  of any real 
contemporaneous evidence to the contrary) that a redemption request made in March  2010 
or thereabouts would  have been met by, say, the beginning of January 2011. Thats a nine 
month or so window  and allows some slippage on the six month  notice period.
I think theres some evidence to support a finding that a redemption  request made  in 2010 
would have been met. The research  undertaken by Mr Ks new advisers in August 2012  
indicates that redemption requests received before October 2010  were being met. I dont 
ignore what the email  said about  the Funds position generally. But I dont see that can be 
taken as indicative of the position  in March/April 2010, over two years earlier  and when, in 
the interim, the Funds position had deteriorated.   
The Friends  Life news archive contains some information about the Brandeaux  Ground  Rent 
Income Fund and the Brandeaux Student  Accommodation Fund and Friends  Lifes mirror 
funds  its own funds  which  invest in the relevant underlying  Brandeaux Fund. Theres  
nothing about  the Brandeaux Sterling Fund  as such. But I recognise,  as that Fund  invested  
exclusively in the Student Funds and the Ground Rent Funds, it would have relied on 
liquidity created by those  Funds to create liquidity for its own shareholders  and investors. So 
the liquidity of the Brandeaux Sterling Fund is likely  to reflect  that of the underlying Student  
and Ground Rent Funds. 
There are several redemption request updates. During 2012  Friends Life reported the 
receipt of several  payments from Brandeaux  which would enable Friends Life to progress 
redemption requests received in 2010. The January 2012 update refers to progressing  
requests logged in August 2010. So I think that supports a finding  that a redemption request 
made in, say, March/April 2010 would have been  met. 
It seems  there might have  been  a delay.  But I cant see anything  about redemption requests 
logged earlier than August 2010. So the timing isnt quite right. A redemption request made 
in March 2010 or soon thereafter  may have fared differently. I say that particularly taking into 
account the Funds reported position in the early  part of 2010 and what  Ive said about the 
introduction of a new six month waiting period aimed  at addressing  redemption  issues.  So I 
maintain the timing Ive suggested  isnt unreasonable. 
 
That still leaves the question as to what value  would have been realised. Ive used the May 
2010 in specie transfer values. Again I dont think thats unreasonable.  The SIPP provider 
undertook due diligence on the assets that were transferred in specie. Its told us that it 
wouldnt normally accept in specie  transfers  of assets that were  impaired. In the absence of 
any direct  evidence as to what might have  been realised on redemption  at the beginning of 
2011 I dont think  its unfair to use the May 2010  values. 
Lastly, Ive considered whether Mr Ks new advisers could have done anything when they 
were appointed which might have  mitigated  Mr Ks position and his losses.  Ive already 
referred to the research  those advisers  undertook and as recorded in the email dated 6 
August 2012.  It provides contemporaneous evidence as to the positon of the Fund at the 
time the new advisers were appointed. It seems any redemption  request made then would  
have been subject to a long delay  the email refers to redemptions being likely  to take 
years to execute. Im satisfied that any redemption request  made by the new advisers  would 
have been too late and couldnt have been  met before the Fund  was finally  suspended on 1 
Ref: DRN453732010July 2013 and later entered  into winding up. 
And it looks like attempts  to sell were  made.  The adviser recalls that the SIPP  provider was 
instructed to sell. And the SIPP providers  file includes a letter signed by Mr K on 30 August  
2012 headed disposal instructions. He asked the SIPP provider to accept the letter  as his 
instruction to dispose of the holdings  he goes on to list as soon as possible, with partial  
disposal if necessary. The list includes the Brandeaux Sterling Fund. So that supports what  
the adviser recalls  about a standing instruction to sell having  been given. Theres also an 
order confirmation sent by Brandeaux  to the SIPP provider. Its marked  cancelled but it looks  
like the SIPP  provider  lodged  a request to process  redemption  in respect of 100% of Mr Ks 
holding in the Brandeaux Sterling Fund  on 7 September  2012.   
So the new advisers did take what steps they could.  But it was too late in any event and it 
wasnt possible to redeem  Mr Ks holding before the Fund was finally  suspended  and then 
wound up. Im satisfied  that no responsibility attaches to the new advisers.    
For the reasons  Ive set out I uphold  the complaint in part and in so far as it relates  to the 
2010 recommendation to retain  Mr Ks MAB2, Matrix Ascension,  Thames Warrior  and 
Brandeaux Sterling  investments. 
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr K, as far as possible, in the position hed be in now if Chandler King had 
given him suitable  advice.  I think  Mr K would have invested differently. Its not possible to 
say precisely what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied  what  Ive set out below 
is fair and reasonable given Mr K's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
As Ive said,  Im only awarding  redress in respect of the Matrix Ascension  and Brandeaux 
Sterling investments. To compensate  Mr K fairly, Chandler King must:
Compare the performance of the investment with that of the benchmark.  
Pay the difference between the amount the investment was actually (or assumed to 
have been) sold for and the notional  value calculated by reference  to what  the 
amount invested  would have been  worth  as at the date of sale assuming the 
investment had produced a return using the benchmark  the FTSE Private  Investors 
Income total return index.  
Use the data set out in the table in my letter of 26 June 2019. So, for Matrix 
Ascension, the amount  invested  was £49,890.91 on 31 May 2010. The investment  
was sold on 26 September 2012  for £52,881.33. For Brandeaux Sterling the amount 
invested was £29,585.30 on 27 May 2010  and the (assumed) date of sale at the 
same price was 1 January 2011. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal,  
income or other  payment  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases  to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to 
keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Chandler  King totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
If theres a loss it should  be brought up to date using the same index to the end date 
 the date the redress payment  is made.   
If redress is due, this should be paid into Mr Ks pension plan. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. It shouldnt  be paid into the 
Ref: DRN453732011pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.
If the payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance  
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr K as a lump sum after making a 
deduction of 15%. The payment would otherwise have  been  used to provide pension 
benefits, 25% of which would be tax free and the rest would have been taxed 
according to his likely tax paying status  in retirement   presumed to be 20%. And so 
the 15% deduction adequately reflects this.
Pay to Mr K £200 for distress and inconvenience.
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr K wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017 the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of diversified indices 
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr K's circumstances and risk attitude.
Mr K hasnt  yet used his pension  plan to purchase an annuity.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint but only in part. Chandler  King (City) Ltd should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Chandler King (City) Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr K in a clear,  simple 
format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 January 2020. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4537320