K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1999. Ms W says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ws case.
And having done that, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold.
Ms W says she was told that she had to take PPI in order  to get the store card she wanted. 
I dont doubt the honesty  of this particular recollection. But the event in question did take 
place roughly 20 years ago and she hasnt told us much  which,  while not necessarily 
surprising, is something I have to consider when weighing up whats  likely to have 
happened.
I accept that its possible  Ms W was told that she had to take the policy  to get her store  card. 
But its also possible that she took PPI because she wanted the cover. 
I dont know which of these scenarios  represents  what actually happened because  I wasnt 
part of the conversation at the time. However, when events are in dispute, I have to base my 
decision on what I think is more likely to have happened given the information  available. 
FICL has provided us with a copy of Ms Ws store card application form. On the form there 
was a section  on PPI  or Account Cover as it was referred to at the time.  Ms W signed to 
take the policy just below the brief description  of it. So Im satisfied that she did agree to take 
the PPI. Theres nothing on the form to suggest she had to. Nor is there anything else 
especially compelling to indicate that was likely to have been  the case. So Im not persuaded 
theres the evidence  to argue she only took the policy  because  she was told she had to.
As a result, this leaves  me with the rest of the sale to consider. Ms W says the policy was 
recommended to her. FICL says it wasnt. So Ive thought about this. But having  looked at 
the available  evidence, and weighed up what both parties have said, theres nothing 
especially convincing to suggest the policy was recommended. And that means  FICL  didnt 
have ensure the policy was right for Ms W. However, FICL still did have to give her the 
information she needed to decide that for herself. 
With limited insight into what  happened  in 1999, its possible the information Ms W was 
given about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But, based on what  Ive seen of 
her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she was affected  by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover  which means it could have been useful for her if something  
went wrong. 
I know Ms W says she was entitled  to some  sick pay from her employer and had other  ways  
of meeting her repayments. But her sick pay does look like it would have fallen away after a 
reasonably short period  of time.  And as the policy would have met her monthly repayments 
Ref: DRN49258682in the event of a successful claim anyway  it freed up her sick pay and other  means to use 
elsewhere. 
Overall, therefore, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Ms W off 
taking out the cover.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4925868