K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Cash  On Go Limited (trading  as Peachy) was irresponsible to lend him 
money.
background
This complaint is about three loans Peachy provided  to Mr W.  
Heres a table showing  the loan details:  
Loan Date Taken Date  
repaid/refinancedInstalments Amount Highest  
Repayment
1 12/11/2017 29/11/2017 3 £300.00 £172.47
2 27/01/2018 10/05/2019 9 £550.00 £124.32
3
**01/06/2018 outstanding 8 £549.74 £118.97
(nb. Peachy  gave Mr W £160 in addition to the capital of £550 hed taken out when loan 2 
started  so to keep  things simpler Ill refer to this lending as loan 2 and loan 3).
Mr W complained  to Peachy that it mis-sold him these loans. And to resolve the complaint 
he wanted Peachy  to refund interest and remove information about the loans from his credit 
file. 
Peachy didnt uphold the complaint. So our adjudicator looked into what  happened when 
Mr W took out these loans.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ws complaint.  She felt she hadnt seen enough to say it 
was unfair  for Peachy  to provide loan 1 to Mr W - but that loans 2 and 3 shouldnt  have been 
lent to him. 
Peachy disagreed with our adjudicators view. It mainly said:  Mr W borrowed only two small 
loans and his income wasnt  low. He also provided us with detailed information about  his 
expenditure, the information seemed reliable and left him with sufficient disposable  income 
for his loan repayments, he also had only had one loan before and that loan had been  paid 
early and there wasnt anything in the information he provided or what we knew  based on his 
borrowing history that shouldve made us question the affordability or sustainability  of loan 2
So the complaint comes  to me to decide. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN40803302Peachy needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Peachy should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Peachy was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably  repay  his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
Peachy has described  the checks it did before lending to Mr W  and I think that those 
checks were proportionate for loan 1. The amount that Mr W needed to repay (three monthly 
repayments of around £173) wouldve seemed comfortably affordable compared with the 
disposable income hed declared  (around £1725). 
Given the repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ws circumstances  at the time, 
and his borrowing  history  with Peachy at that stage, I dont think it wouldve been  
proportionate for Peachy to ask Mr W for the amount  of information that would be needed to 
show the lending  was unsustainable  before agreeing the first loan.  
So Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint about  loan 1.  
Ref: DRN40803303Looking at loan 2, Ive taken into account that hed be making lower monthly repayments. 
And Ive noted  the two month gap between loans 1 and 2. But when thinking  about 
sustainability, Ive kept in mind  that loan 2 was a significantly bigger loan taken over a longer 
repayment term  Mr W applied  to borrow £550  and to pay the loan back by way of nine 
monthly repayments. And to my mind,  the two month gap wasnt long enough for Peachy 
reasonably to think his financial circumstances had significantly changed for the better 
during this short time. And Ive seen nothing else to suggest that actually happened. 
So I think Peachy  should  have considered if it could safely rely on the information he was 
providing about his finances. I dont think it was any longer  reasonable for Peachy to base its 
lending decision on the information Mr W was providing. I think  it wouldve been  
proportionate for Peachy to independently  check the true state of Mr Ws finances before 
agreeing to lend loan 2.
If Peachy  had looked in more depth at Mr Ws finances, it wouldve been able to see 
evidence that he was facing problems managing his money.
It wouldve  likely seen that hed already  taken  out another short  term high cost loan of £880 
elsewhere just 12 days  earlier. Hed yet to make  any repayments  towards  that when he 
applied to Peachy  for loan 2. He also took out a loan for £400 from another provider of high 
cost credit just 6 days before asking Peachy for loan 2  also, still all to be repaid with 
interest.
I agree,  as Peachy says,  that the regulations arent prescriptive  about exactly  what checks a 
lender must do. But I think if it had done the proportionate checks  it needed  to do, its likely  
Peachy wouldve been able to see that Mr W was borrowing such a substantial  amount of 
high cost credit that it wasnt reasonable to think that it was likely he would be able 
sustainably to afford to repay loan 2, or any subsequent loan.
And Ive noted  that Mr W took out some  additional capital  Ive called  this loan 3. So it 
seems clear  to me that he was finding it difficult to manage his finances in a well planned 
way and Ive seen nothing that suggests to me that his money  problems were  getting any 
easier to manage. 
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint  about loans 2 and 3.
putting things right  what Peachy needs to do 
Im not aware that Peachy has sold any of Mr Ws debt to a third party  but if it has, then it 
should either buy back the debt and carry out these directions or ask the debt purchaser  to 
do the same. 
remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance outstanding on the loan it 
provided on 27/1/2018 and the additional  capital  it provided on 1/6/2018 (loans  2 and 
3 in my table), and treat any repayments  made by Mr W as though they had been  
repayments towards capital sums loaned to him
if this results in Mr W having made  overpayments, then Peachy should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
Peachy should  then refund the amount owing to Mr W, or alternatively 
Ref: DRN40803304when Peachy works out what it owes Mr W, it can first apply this towards  offsetting  
any outstanding  capital balance Mr W still owes. And if there is still an outstanding 
capital balance then I remind  Peachy  that it should take a constructive and 
sympathetic view when seeking  to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr W
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ws credit  file in relation  to the loan 
it provided on 27/1/2018 and the additional  capital it provided on 1/6/2018 after 
repayment in full.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Peachy to take off tax from this interest. Peachy must 
give Mr W a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mr Ws complaint and Cash On Go Limited  (trading as Peachy)  should  put 
things right for Mr W as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4080330