K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2005 
alongside a credit card. Mr M says Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr M says the PPI was automatically added to his credit card account.  But based on the 
evidence Ive seen  I think Lloyds made  it clear  that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and 
he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this. I say this 
having seen a copy of his credit card application form which included a section  for PPI. In 
this there  are equally prominent  yes and no options to agree or decline the cover. An x 
has been written in the yes box and Mr M signed  this application form  so I think this 
reflected what he wanted at the time.  
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and Mr M says he didnt 
have any sick pay or savings which he couldve relied on, so he seems  to have had a need  
for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr M about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. But Lloyds 
will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr M any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Ref: DRN46040952Lloyds should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mr M the difference between 
what Mr M owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt  
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr M 8%* simple  interest  if he 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4604095