K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC rejected her claim under Section 75.
background
In April 2018 Mrs O booked a villa using  an online  booking website. She paid a deposit using 
her Tesco credit card. Mrs O received an email the same day confirming the booking, 
following which she booked flights. Later  that day Mrs O received an email  advising her that 
the booking had been cancelled. She managed to find another  villa to fit in with the flights  
she had booked but the cost was around £725  more.
Mrs O contacted Tesco to claim back the additional cost under Section 75. Tesco rejected 
the claim.  It said the transaction  hadnt been debited from her credit card account and that 
therefore there was no debtor-creditor-supplier agreement  in place.
Mrs O didnt agree with the response and complained  to this service. She said shed 
received an email from the booking website showing that a transaction had happened.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the transaction hadnt completed 
because the holiday  booking website hadnt taken  the funds and therefore no funds were 
sent to the supplier, which invalidated  the DCS chain. The investigator didnt think that Tesco 
had done anything wrong in declining the Section 75 claim.
Mrs O (through her representative) didnt  agree.  She didnt think  there was a requirement  for 
the creditor (Tesco) to have sent monies to the supplier (the holiday booking website) in 
order for there to be a DCS relationship. Mrs O felt that she had provided evidence to show 
that a transaction had taken place  and that the payment wouldve taken up to 48 hours to 
show on her credit card account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 makes a credit provider liable in the event that something goes wrong with a 
purchase. Where  a consumer buys something with a credit card and the goods arent 
supplied, or arent of satisfactory quality , the consumer can claim back  the money  from the 
credit card company. Section 75 only applies where  there is a relationship  between  the 
buyer, the creditor and the seller, known as a debtor-creditor-supplier or DCS relationship.
The specific  wording of section 75(1) says:
if a debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement . has, in relation to a transaction 
financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation 
or breach of contract, he shall, have a like claim against the creditor, who,  with the supplier, 
shall accordingly be jointly and severally  liable to the debtor.
In this case, the point of dispute  between Mrs O and Tesco  centres on whether there is a 
DCS relationship. Tesco has said that because no funds were debited  from Mrs Os credit  
card, there was no transaction  and therefore  no DCS link. Mrs O has said that she doesnt 
think theres a requirement for monies  to have been sent to the supplier in order  to establish 
Ref: DRN46726862a DCS  link. She also says that the confirmation  of booking which she received from the 
booking website confirms  that her payment  was accepted.
Ive had regard  to the wording of the relevant  legislation and the available  documentary 
evidence. In my analysis, the legislation requires a transaction to be financed  by the creditor 
(Tesco). By implication, this would require a transfer  of funds before the transaction could be 
said to have been completed.
In this case, I can see from Mrs Os credit card statement that no payment was taken. Im 
therefore of the view that no transaction took place and that no DCS link has been 
established.
I appreciate that Mrs O received a confirmation  of booking which states that her payment 
has been accepted. But on the evidence, Im satisfied that no payment was made by Tesco 
to the booking website. So I dont think the email is accurate  or reflective  of the factual 
position. It seems more likely that, having received Mrs Os payments details, the booking  
website accepted the details but didnt process  the payment because  the cancellation of the 
booking intervened.
Based on what Ive seen,  theres no evidence to suggest that a payment was debited  from 
Mrs Os Tesco account and no evidence  of any refund being processed.  Im not persuaded 
that a transaction completed or that there  was a DCS link. Because of this Im unable to say 
that Tesco acted  unfairly in rejecting  the section75 claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4672686