K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank Plc has treated him unfairly  by continuing  with possession 
proceedings and rejecting his offer to repay  the mortgage in full with the proceeds of the sale 
of another property.
background
Mr M had a mortgage with Lloyds  that was in arrears. Hed only made three  payments  to the 
mortgage since December 2014. One of the payments in 2017 was a lump  sum that cleared  
the arrears balance in full. But the mortgage fell back  into arrears  after that.
In 2018, Mr M asked Lloyds to put the possession action on hold. He said that he intended  to 
sell a close relatives home and use the proceeds of that to repay his mortgage.  But he also 
wanted Lloyds  to agree not to accept any payments during that time. He was prepared for 
Lloyds to take a charge over his close relatives  home.
Lloyds said that it needed details of Mr Ms income  and expenditure so it could  assess how 
much Mr M could  afford  to pay. Mr M declined to provide those details. Lloyds  wouldnt 
agree to suspend  action  until Mr Ms close relatives house was sold.
Our investigator didnt  think that Lloyds had acted  unreasonably. Mr M didnt accept what the 
investigator said.
Lloyds had recommenced its possession claim in court.  That hearing was adjourned until we 
could finish our consideration  of the complaint. But Mr M sold his late close  relatives house 
and repaid the mortgage. The claim was discontinued with no order as to costs.
I issued a provisional decision inviting both sides to make  further  submissions if they wished. 
My provisional findings form part of this decision. They  were:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so, I must take into account the  
law, relevant rules  and regulations, and what I consider to have been good  industry  practice 
at the relevant time.
It isnt in dispute that Mr M was in arrears  on his mortgage. The Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Mortgages  and Home Finance: Conduct  of Business sourcebook (MCOB)  sets 
out what lenders  must do to treat borrowers  who are in arrears fairly. It says lenders must 
make reasonable efforts to reach  an agreement over the method of repaying  any arrears. 
Where no reasonable  payment arrangement could be made they should  allow  the customer  
to remain in possession  for a reasonable period  to effect a sale.
MCOB goes on to say that to comply with the above, lenders must consider a range of 
options, including extending the mortgages  term, switching to interest  only,  deferring 
payments of interest,  adding the arrears  to the capital  balance.
The rules  say where no reasonable  payment arrangement can be made lenders  should 
give borrowers a reasonable period to conduct  a sale. It doesnt specify that the borrower 
must be selling  their own home or the home  secured against the mortgage. And it is good 
practice for lenders to consider each case individually and tailor its approach accordingly. So 
I can see some circumstances where it might be reasonable for a lender to accept proposals 
similar to Mr Bs.
Ref: DRN41127612The difficulty  here is that requirement  only exists where no reasonable payment can be 
made. We dont know if a reasonable payment arrangement was possible because  Mr M 
refused to give Lloyds  details  of his income and expenditure. That was his decision.  But it 
was a reasonable request  and in line with good industry practice for Lloyds to request this 
information. I consider  in this case that it was reasonable for Lloyds not to agree to anything  
without knowing more  about Mr Bs financial circumstances. 
I understand Mr Bs strength of feeling  at what was already a difficult time for him. I accept 
there might be circumstances where a lender should agree not to accept any payments  to a 
mortgage until a property it doesnt  hold as a security is sold. But I consider that would only 
be reasonable after an income  and expenditure exercise has been  carried  out. So I dont 
consider it was unfair for Lloyds to continue with the possession  action.  Mr M was in breach 
of the agreement he entered in to with Lloyds when he took the mortgage  and he hadnt 
given Lloyds enough information to consider  whether  to grant  a concession.
While the court has considered some matters between  Mr M and Lloyds, it didnt make a 
decision on the subject  matter of this complaint or whether Lloyds should be granted 
possession. I accept  it was within the courts  power to give Mr M time to sell the property. 
But it doesnt follow that Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably here  and I dont 
consider it has for the reasons set out above.
Mr M responded to make a number of points, which I addressed in an email to him. He made 
a number of further  points, including:
The background of my provisional decision omits a number  of important points.
The crux of his complaint is that Lloyds  did not treat him fairly when he made  a complaint 
to its chief executive and that the member of staff he dealt with didnt deal with his 
request for a moratorium in a fair way  all it did was brush him off.
It wasnt clear  to him whether Lloyds had given me a recording of the phone call in 
question, whether  I had listened to it and whether I had looked at his handwritten notes 
of the phone call made  at the time in question.
It was a misleading omission  to say that the possession claim was discontinued. The 
consent order from [the court] was not just that the proceedings were discontinued but 
also that there be no other order as to costs. This was to preserve the order  of [the 
judge] that the firm be ordered to pay all my costs of its flawed possession proceedings 
to be the subject of a detailed assessment. The claim  was not simply abandoned by the 
firm.
Lloyds didnt explore or seek proof  of the two options he put to it  all it did was insist that 
he provide details of his income and expenditure.
We had placed  too much  weight on obscure provisions of the MCOB sourcebook..
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  That includes all of the evidence provided 
Mr M, including  his handwritten notes  of his phone call with Lloyds of 26 March  2018 and all 
Ref: DRN41127613of the evidence provided by Lloyds. Ive also read everything that Mr M has said about the 
background to this complaint. My background is a summary and reflects  the informal nature 
of our process.
The phone call that Mr M of 26 March 2018 was resubmitted by Lloyds and listened to me 
before reaching  my provisional  decision.  My email to Mr M of 12 September 2019 confirmed 
I had asked Lloyds  for another  copy of the recording. My email of 13 November 2019 said 
The phone call that was resubmitted  by Lloyds and listened to [by] me before reaching my 
provisional decision.
The rules  I must follow are DISP Dispute  Resolution:  Complaints. DISP 3.6.1 says that I 
 will determine a complaint  by reference to what is, in [my] opinion, fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the case. 
DISP 3.6.4 goes  on to say In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case,  the Ombudsman  will take into account:
(1) relevant:
1. (a) law and regulations;
2. (b) regulators' rules, guidance  and standards;
3. (c) codes of practice; and
2. (2) (where appropriate) what he considers  to have been  good industry practice  at the 
relevant time.
I must take into account MCOB  as the relevant regulators rules  along with other things  
in determining what in my opinion is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
In my opinion, in the circumstances  of this case and taking  into account all of the above, I 
consider it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to ask for Mr M to provide details of his income 
and expenditure  before  it would decide whether to offer him a concession or not. I say this 
as this is in line with good industry practice  and the relevant  rules  at the time in question.
While I understand why Mr M considers that his proposals were  reasonable, he was not in a 
position where he could dictate to Lloyds that it must  change  the agreement it had with him. 
While Lloyds was required to treat Mr M fairly  to do that it needed to understand what  his 
financial position was. There may have been  other options  available to Mr M that he had not 
considered that would have left him and Lloyds in a better position overall than the proposals 
he had put forward.  So it was reasonable for Lloyds to ask for details  of his income and 
expenditure. As Mr M chose not to provide that information then I consider it was reasonable 
for Lloyds  to take the action it did. 
Ive listened again at the phone call of 26 March 2018. I consider that what  Lloyds said 
during that phone call was fair and reasonable. It offered Mr M help as long as it could 
understand what he could afford to pay each month and that it could see that the mortgage 
actually was unaffordable for Mr M. But Mr M was insistent that he would not provide that 
information. It was for Lloyds to decide  whether to agree to the proposals without the 
financial statement and it set out clearly why it was not prepared to do that. I think this was a 
reasonable position for it to take.  
Ref: DRN41127614I was sorry to hear of the difficult time that Mr M was going through and I dont doubt that it 
was very stressful. But as I consider that Lloyds  has acted fairly I cant  say that it should 
compensate him for the distress he suffered. I note that Lloyds did offer to speak  to Mr M at 
a different time, but he chose  to go ahead with the phone  call. 
I cant consider how Lloyds dealt with Mr Ms complaint as complaint handling isnt a 
regulated activity covered by our rules. In any case,  the complaint  is really about whether it 
was fair for Lloyds  to continue the possession claim unless Mr M provided details of his 
income and expenditure and that it didnt give proper  consideration to his proposals. For the 
reasons Ive explained, in the circumstances of this case I consider  that Lloyds has acted 
fairly and reasonably. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.  
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4112761