K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Mr S payment  protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mr S has said he was pressurised into taking  the PPI and was effectively  told he had to have 
the PPI if he wanted  his unusual mortgage requirements met. The problem I have, in making 
a decision on this, is that I couldnt  know the exact  words used  by the adviser  and the tone in 
which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to strongly advise someone to buy an 
insurance policy, even  if the adviser is partly motivated  by making a sale  as long as the 
policy is actually something  worth recommending. The closer it gets to making  someone  feel 
they have no real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I 
say, I cant be sure exactly what was said and that the PPI wasnt  offered as a genuine  
matter of choice. And it wouldnt  be fair to say Santander did something wrong unless I had 
stronger evidence of this. 
I think Santander recommended the PPI to Mr S, and this means it had a higher standard to 
reach during the sales process  it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for Mr Ss 
particular circumstances.  Finding yourself  unable to pay a mortgage  can lead to significant  
difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a suitable  one, 
based on what Ive seen of Mr Ss situation at the time:
Its likely  Mr S was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI covered only unemployment.  It would  have paid benefits at the same  time 
as Mr S received any redundancy pay. And it appears he didnt have other  significant  
means to fall back. So the PPI could  have put Mr S in a more secure position, if he 
still hadnt found employment when  his redundancy pay ran out.  
Ive not been told anything to suggest he couldnt afford  the PPI when he took it out. 
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Ref: DRN45455652Its hard to know how well Santander explained the costs and benefits of the policy.  But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have  affected  
whether Mr S took the PPI.
Its possible Santander didnt clearly point out the main restrictions in the policy. But its 
unlikely Mr S would  have been affected by any of these restrictions. And hed be paying for it 
monthly, so he could cancel it at any time without further cost if his situation changed.
Mr S has said he believed  he was sold cover for accident and sickness, and not just for 
unemployment. He says a claim he made for disability was turned down as the insurer  said 
he wasnt covered for it. Im here looking only at whether the PPI was mis-sold, and Mr S 
may want to make  a separate complaint  to the insurer about whether he was entitled to 
make his claim under the policy. Though I can see that there is a letter dated 24 November  
2000 from the insurer to Mr S, enclosing the policy schedule. This policy  schedule  says that 
it only provides unemployment  cover. This does suggest that at the time the insurer believed 
it wasnt providing sickness  and disability cover. 
But I dont see that a recommendation for just unemployment cover  (if indeed  that is all that 
was recommended)  would necessarily have been  an unsuitable recommendation. The 
unemployment cover  itself would have been  suitable for Mr S, and it would have  been  open 
to him to also ask for accident and sickness cover. I dont have any evidence  that Santander  
actually recommended against him taking such cover. 
So I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold. But Santander has paid back  some of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr S because:  
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mr S has expressed surprise at how little Santander has refunded  him. However this is 
because it is only refunding those amounts that went  over the 50% mark, over the lifetime of 
the policy. I see that, in its letter to Mr S, it said its current rate of commission is well below 
that level. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4545565