K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  
policy. 
background
neither party  can recall when the policy was sold so theyve assumed it was taken when the 
credit card started  in 1996. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  and Ive explained why below.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when there are no documents  available  
from the time of the sale. Its maybe not surprising that neither party  has been able to 
provide any documentation as these  events happened over 23 years  ago. 
But Lloyds has been able to provide a sample  of the sort of application form it says Mr M 
would have completed to get the credit. I think its most likely that this is the sort of form 
Mr M would have had to complete to get the credit  card. On this application I can see that to 
get the PPI Mr M had to tick a box. So I think Mr M ought to have understood this was 
something he could  choose. 
So having  considered all the submissions  I have received in this case, I think its more  likely  
that Lloyds wouldve made Mr M aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take 
it, even though he may not remember that now, many years later.
Lloyds told us it recommended  the PPI to Mr M. This meant Lloyds needed to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the policy was suitable for Mr M. Based on what Ive seen of 
his circumstances  at the time, I think the recommendation was right for him. I explain why 
below.
Mr M was eligible for the policy and he was not affected by any of the exclusions from or 
limits to the PPI policy. I say this whilst acknowledging that Mr M told us he was self 
employed at the time of the sale. Ive looked at the terms that are likely to have pertained to 
the PPI and I do not think that Mr M would have  found it harder to make  a successful claim 
for unemployment that an employed person. 
And I think Mr M had a need for the policy. Mr M told us he had no sick pay he could have 
relied on if things went  wrong.  Mr M said that he may have had some  modest savings  but 
they were set aside  for an eventual house  purchase. The PPI could have paid 10% of Mr Ms 
Ref: DRN47979002monthly repayment for up to 12 months in the event  he became too unwell  to work, or if he 
lost his job. So, I think the policy would have been  useful  to Mr M. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar  policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable (Mr M afforded the policy  for some  time).  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr M about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But its most likely that he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this 
type of cover. And for the same reasons I dont think the policy  was unsuitable  for Mr M, I 
dont think better information  would have  put him off taking out the cover.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4797900