K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Y say Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI)  mis-sold them two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background to and summary of complaint
1995 mortgage
Mr and Mrs Y took out a BoI mortgage in May 1995.  This mortgage was for around 
£80,000. PPI was added to their mortgage account. BoI cant  say exactly how or 
when the policy was sold. 
Mr and Mrs Y say the PPI was sold to them over the phone with their mortgage. 
They also say they were told that PPI was a prerequisite of the mortgage.  
The policy provided  cover  for accident,  sickness, and unemployment.  BoI cant say whether 
it was just one or both of them covered under  the policy. Mr and Mrs Y believe it was both of 
them, and I think its reasonable for me to assume  in this decision that theyre right.  BoI no 
longer has their paperwork from the time of sale,  so it also cant say how much benefit  the 
policy wouldve paid out.
1999 mortgage
In October  1999, Mr and Mrs Y paid off their 1995  mortgage and took out a further mortgage 
through BoI. Again, BoI cant say exactly when PPI was added,  or how it sold the policy to 
them. But I am assuming  in this decision that a new policy  was sold, rather  than the existing 
policy simply continuing. 
As before, Mr and Mrs Y have said that the policy was sold to them on the phone alongside 
their mortgage and they were told they had to have PPI. The amount of benefit  and whether 
the benefit was split between them is again not known.  Again, Im assuming  that it covered 
them both.  The policy provided  accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
This mortgage ended  in 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint about the sale of either of these 
policies. Mr and Mrs Y didnt accept our adjudicators view and so their complaint was 
passed to me for a decision. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Ys complaint  on 4 November 2019.  Although  I 
was minded to agree  with our adjudicator in not upholding  their complaint, I expanded on the 
adjudicators reasons  for reaching that conclusion. I also commented on HMRC  records 
Mr Y had obtained after our adjudicator issued her view.  In the circumstances, I wanted to 
give Mr and Mrs Y and BoI a further  opportunity to comment before I made a final decision.
BoI made no further representations.  
Mr and Mrs Y asked  to be able to discuss their case with me on the telephone.  They  
complained that they werent told they could ask for an oral hearing.
Ref: DRN44884952Mr and Mrs Ys written  representations on my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs Y made written representations  in response to my provisional  decision. These  
included the following:
1995 policy
They said they didnt  meet with a BoI adviser  to discuss the benefits and disadvantages of 
taking PPI. They said BoI didnt  have any branches  in the UK, confirming their recollection 
that the sales were  made by the phone.  They said again, they were told PPI was a 
stipulation of mortgage acceptance.
Mr and Mrs Y said they were both employed, with Mr Y earning around  £30,000  plus up to a 
100% bonus. Mr Y said he had work  related  benefits  including  health care, sick pay and 
terminal and critical illness cover. They said they had savings including in ISAs. Most 
recently, theyve said Mrs Y was earning  around  £17,000.  They  said Mrs Y was entitled to 
sick pay and they had pensions and life insurance cover.
Mr and Mrs Ys position is that they did not need  PPI.
1999 policy
Mr and Mrs Y said they moved  house  and transferred to a new BoI mortgage.  Again, they 
said they were told PPI was a stipulation of the mortgage. They mentioned  paying heavily 
into their savings and ISAs and being able to comfortably survive  a job loss or change whilst  
continuing to pay their mortgage.  They  said Mrs Y was still employed, earning around 
£18,000 and that Mr Ys salary had risen to £75,000 plus bonuses, and then further during 
the lifecycle of the mortgage.
They are adamant  they did not need  PPI.
bank records
Mr Y expressed concern that BoI originally told him it still held his records in May 2019.  In 
June 2019, he said he was told BoI didnt hold the data it had previously agreed  to send him.
evidence of earnings and circumstances at the time of the sales
Mr Y said he had tried to get as much information for us as he could  about  his circumstances 
at the time. But given  the length  of time this was patchy in places.
He said he had asked  the adjudicator whether it was necessary to obtain  information about 
his earnings from HMRC and pointed  out a directive  from the Financial Conduct Authority 
indicating that banks and credit card companies must not dismiss complaints purely because  
the consumer  does not have paperwork from the time of sale. He said he was informed that 
his case would be viewed  more favourably if he did obtain these records. He said the 
adjudicator had failed to come back to him after she received his HMRC records  and had 
simply referred the case on to me.
comments on my provisional decision
Ref: DRN44884953Mr and Mrs Y said I had got some facts  wrong, made some untrue and false observations 
and arrived at some judgments  which were  not correct. They said I had made an 
inappropriate comment regarding age, which I had failed to apologise for. 
Mr and Mrs Y were  dissatisfied that I and other senior members of our staff had refused a 
request to talk to them personally about their case after my provisional  decision was issued. 
misunderstanding the facts
Mr and Mrs Y said I had misunderstood various facts.  In summary, these were that:
(a)PPI was sold over the phone and presented as a pre-requisite of mortgage 
acceptance;
(b)Mr and Mrs Y were  earning good salaries;
(c)They were saving  regularly;
(d)They were not over-spending;
(e)They did not require  PPI, or the benefits  it offered;
(f)Mr and Mrs Y had supplied copious amounts of information to establish their position 
at the time of sale, despite being  hampered by data protection rules about how long 
businesses kept records. BoI had supplied nothing. And documents that did exist 
when Mr and Mrs Y complained to BoI appeared to have been lost by BoI;
(g)Bias was being shown against Mr and Mrs Y as we were  holding it against them that 
they couldnt provide information  from the time,  but BoI was not being treated in the 
same way;
(h)My conclusions  about earnings  were incorrect. Evidence had been supplied of Mr Y 
earning £30,000 plus bonuses in 1995  and in 1999 of £65-70,000  plus bonuses. 
Mrs Y was working too, and she earned  £17,000 (or £12,000) in 1995 and £18,000 in 
1999;
(i)Evidence of Mr and Mrs Ys earnings of itself was enough to show  these policies 
were not needed;
(j)Mr and Mrs Y had been asked to prove  that the policy  was mis-sold. BoI had not 
been asked to show that the policy was correctly sold;  and
(k)I should not be using age as a factor when deciding this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ys complaint comes  back  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive summarised Mr and Mrs Ys complaint and their main representations. I have  read and 
considered all the evidence and arguments available to me, including everything theyve 
sent in and said prior to and after the issue of my provisional decision, to decide what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ys case.
Where some  of the evidence is either  incomplete or contradictory, I have  to make a decision  
about what I think is most likely to have happened  based on whats available.
Having considered everything, Im not going to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ys complaint. I know they 
will be disappointed about  this. I will explain why. Where my view hasnt changed  from my 
Ref: DRN44884954provisional decision I will repeat those comments here. Ill also respond to the additional 
points Mr and Mrs Y have made.
request to speak to the ombudsman
Mr and Mrs Y asked  to speak directly with me after receiving my provisional decision. They 
disputed my findings and felt I had got a number of things wrong. They  also complained  that 
they had not been  told they could ask for a hearing. One of our managers  explained  to them  
that discussing a case over the telephone  with an ombudsman isnt considered  a hearing. A 
hearing is a formal face to face meeting where  both parties put forward their views and 
comments. It was explained that we dont usually need hearings to resolve  disputes  and that 
I didnt feel one was necessary  in this case.
Following my provisional decision, through one of our managers, I asked Mr Y one question, 
in writing, to clarify what he was saying about his earnings. I looked  at Mr Ys further written 
representations and didnt consider that any further information was then required to decide 
this complaint. 
Ombudsmens written decisions explain why we reach the conclusions we do. I was satisfied 
I had all the information I needed and didnt feel a phone call was necessary to resolve the 
case fairly. Mr and Mrs Y were given  an opportunity to provide oral representations by 
voicemail, which I would then listen to. They didnt take this up. 
did Mr and Mrs Y know they had a choice about PPI?
BoI had to make  it clear that the PPI policies were  optional and tell Mr and Mrs Y they had a 
choice about whether  to take PPI. Mr and Mrs Y say the sales were made over the phone.  I 
assumed in my provisional decision, as I do here,  that Mr and Mrs Y were  probably right 
about these being phone  sales.  As there are no records of those conversations  now, I cant 
know what was discussed when both of these  policies  were sold. 
Mr and Mrs Y say they remember being told that PPI was a condition of acceptance for the 
mortgages, and thats why PPI was added. They said,  in summary, they wouldnt have 
taken PPI otherwise,  because they didnt need  it.
Theres no paperwork from these sales now available. BoI hasnt been able to produce  call 
recordings or scripts going  back this far. Its not surprising that BoI no longer holds Mr and 
Mrs Ys sales paperwork. Under  data protection legislation businesses must  only hold on to 
information for as long as is necessary. The last mortgage was closed in 2004.
I can see that Mr and Mrs Y made  a subject access request requiring BoI to provide them  
with the information it held on them. BoI responded and said it no longer held their 
information because  their mortgage  accounts  were closed over 10 years ago. Banks often  
only hold on to records for six years. So, it wouldnt usually be fair for me to hold it against  
BoI in circumstances  like this. 
Mr and Mrs Y say that BoI still had their records in May 2019.  But, in response  to Mr and 
Mrs Ys subject  access request, BoI said it no longer held any documentation.  If Mr and Mrs 
Y have  concerns about BoIs handling of their data or subject  access  request, they can 
raise this with the Information Commissioner. It doesnt fall within this services  jurisdiction 
to determine whether  BoI has breached data protection  rules. For the purposes of deciding  
Ref: DRN44884955this complaint, BoI has been asked  to supply the paperwork  it holds from the time of the 
sales. It has indicated that it no longer holds any paperwork. Ive proceeded on this basis.
Ive carefully considered  what Mr and Mrs Y have said about what they remember  from 
1995 and 1999 about these sales. There are some  inconsistencies in the information Mr 
and Mrs Y have given us about their circumstances, and when compared to HMRC records. 
I think thats understandable given how far back in time this all goes. I wouldnt reasonably 
expect Mr and Mrs Y to remember every detail from over 20 years ago. I accept that when 
providing information to us they were under the genuine belief that the information  they 
were providing was correct. Whilst not wishing to offend Mr and Mrs Y, I still am of the view 
that these policies were  sold a long time ago and memories can fade over time about 
discussions or circumstances going  back over 20 years.  
This service has dealt with many  PPI complaints against businesses,  including against BoI. 
Im not aware of any systemic issues relating to the sale of BoI PPI policies from the time of 
these sales. To be clear,  Im not saying that that means Mr and Mrs Ys policies couldnt  
have been mis-sold. Each case is considered on its own set of facts and merits. Im simply 
saying Ive not seen anything that leads me to be concerned about BoIs  general  approach  
to selling PPI in 1995 and 1999.
Overall, I dont  consider  I have clear enough  information to be able fairly  to conclude that 
BoI went  so far as to tell them on either occasion that they had no choice but to take PPI, or 
that Mr and Mrs Y were misled  into believing that they had to take PPI to get their 
mortgages. On balance, I think its more likely they were given a fair choice  about  whether 
to have PPI and chose to do so.
did BoI provide advice?
As I said in my provisional decision,  I have  proceeded on the basis  that these were  advised 
sales. Given the limited information available, I cant know  if that was case. But, to be fair to 
Mr and Mrs Y, I have  worked  on that basis.  By doing so, it means I treat BoI as having  the 
added duty to consider  whether  each policy was right for Mr and Mrs Y before it 
recommended it to them. And whether it recommended these  policies  or not, BoI had to 
provide Mr and Mrs Y with information that was clear fair and not misleading  about the PPI, 
so they could make an informed choice and decide whether to buy it.
suitable advice
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Ys circumstances  at the time of each sale.  And having done so, I 
cant see that the policies were  clearly unsuitable for them. Ill explain why.
They said they were  both working,  and I think it likely that they wouldve been eligible 
to take out the cover  in one or both of their names. Mr and Mrs Y accept they were 
eligible;
I havent seen  anything that makes  me think the policies werent affordable  for them. 
Mr and Mrs Y accept  the policies were  affordable, but say they were not needed;
I cant see that they were affected by any of the likely main  limitations  or exclusions 
in cover,  so I dont  think this wouldve put them off taking out either policy. As they 
wouldve been able to benefit from everything each policy  offered,  I think  it couldve 
provided them with valuable protection in their circumstances;
Ref: DRN44884956sick pay
Both Mr and Mrs Y said they wouldve received sick pay through work  if they were  off 
sick. Mr and Mrs Y were  both in their early twenties  when the first policy  was taken 
out. Mr and Mrs Y were concerned about what  they described  as my ageist or 
discriminatory approach  to the consideration of their complaint. Im sorry the 
reference to their age linked  to career progression has offended  them. This was not 
my intention. My comments were  simply intended to reflect what  Id observed from 
Mr Ys HMRC  records from 1993  to 2008, from when he was in his early 20s, to his 
late 30s. 
I considered what Mr Y told me about his line of work, his progression to senior 
positions, his earnings and probable sick pay at that time of both of these sales.  I 
also considered  the amount Mr Y was earning  as set out in the HMRC records. From 
this, I could see that his salary increased  quite considerably over time, lending  
support to what he had said about progressing into senior roles. I could also see from 
Mr Ys HMRC  records when he changed  employers. Its not unusual for work related 
benefits to increase based on service and job role. 
Mr Y initially  said he was entitled to a minimum of 12 months  full sick pay and then it 
reduced to half pay after that, but he couldnt  remember how long for. They  said
Mrs Ys employer  wouldve paid her full sick pay for up to 12 months. In Mr Ys 
January 2020  response, he said: Both  of us were  entitled to a minimum of 6 month -
1 year sick pay. 
The PPI policies wouldve likely covered their mortgage in full for up to 12 months per 
successful claim. The policies wouldve anyway paid out on top of any work related  
benefits either of them  got (if they were both covered  under  the policies). It wouldve 
allowed them to use their work related benefits  to meet their other  household 
expenditure, knowing that their home  was protected. The PPI wouldve  also covered 
them for unemployment, on top of any redundancy payment.
Given these combined  factors mentioned  above, and what I observed  of Mr Ys 
circumstances from the documentation provided, I remain of the view that it was 
unlikely that they wouldve been  entitled to such a generous amount of work related  
benefits as initially  mentioned. So, I couldnt  see that this meant that PPI was 
unsuitable for them when they bought  each  of these policies. I also took into account 
that Mr Y accepted  he couldnt fully remember what his sick pay arrangements were.
savings
They said they had around six to twelve months  worth of savings they couldve fallen 
back on. Theyve said that they were saving  heavily and couldve withstood job 
losses or moves. Mr and Mrs Y sent us evidence of their savings from a later period 
of time, to show they had savings. 
I accepted in my provisional decision that it was likely they had savings at the times 
they took out the PPI. But I didnt  know whether  their savings were earmarked for any 
other purpose. I concluded that even if they werent, I thought it likely that it was 
important to them to hold on to these as they didnt use them to reduce their 
mortgage borrowing. I remain  of that view. 
I can see from the HMRC records that Mr Y changed jobs at the end of 1997  and left 
this later job in December 1999. He originally told us he left this job in October 1999. 
Ref: DRN44884957It may be that he stopped doing any work for his employer then, but was classed as 
being employed by it during his notice  period.  He took out the new mortgage  (and 
PPI at the same time they said) in October 1999  and seemingly moved home around 
that time.  He told us his savings would have  supported job changes. Overall, I cant  
see that Mr and Mrs Ys likely level of savings in 1995 and 1999 meant that the PPI 
was clearly unsuitable for them.
earnings
Ive carefully reconsidered the details of earnings Mr Y has provided.  I thanked  him in 
my provisional decision for the time and effort hed put into obtaining this information 
from HMRC.
There is some inconsistency  between  some of what has been  said about Mr and 
Mrs Ys earnings, both in general terms and from what I observed in the HMRC 
records. For example, Mr Y initially told us he was earning £100,000+  from 1997  and 
interchangeably said his wife was earning  £12,000 and £17,000 in 1995. That said, I 
think Mr and Mrs Y have  done their very best, under  difficult  circumstances due to 
the passage of time, to back up what theyre  saying  with documentation from the time 
of the sales. So, in the same way that I am not holding the lack of documentary  
evidence against  BoI, I am not holding it, or any minor inconsistencies in what  
theyve told us against Mr and Mrs Y. I think Mr and Mrs Y have been genuine in their 
attempts to provide  this service with as much  accurate information as they could.
1995 earnings
In 1995, the mortgage they took out was around  £80,000. Ive taken  into account that 
they said Mrs Y was working too, earning somewhere around £12-17,000.  I said in 
my provisional decision that it seemed that Mr Y was earning around £20,000 per 
year.
Mr Y said that the conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision about his earnings 
in 1995 was wrong. I clarified this with Mr Y. He said that as his bonuses  were 
retained by his employer,  they did not show on the taxable income for that year.  They 
were paid out at a later date.
I now understand why there is a clear discrepancy  of around £10,000 between the 
HMRC records  I looked at, and what Mr Y is saying about his income.  However, 
having taken this into consideration, I still cant see that in 1995 their joint earnings 
were at such a level that PPI was clearly unsuitable  in their particular circumstances. 
Mr Y didnt have access to the bonuses earned around this time,  so this doesnt  
change my view. And even if he had actually received £30,000  gross  pay that year,  
that wouldnt have  changed my view either. 
1999 earnings
I said in my provisional decision that by 1999,  Mr Y had changed employer and his 
salary had, it seemed,  increased  to around £25,000. I can now see that I had 
misread the information in the HMRC records and thought the two figures  in the table 
represented what Mr Y had earned in 1999/2000, when they related to the previous 
year. I thank Mr and Mrs Y for pointing out this misunderstanding. I can see this has 
caused some confusion and apologise  to Mr and Mrs Y for that. Thats one of the 
reasons why this service sometimes issues provisional decisions,  before a final 
Ref: DRN44884958decision is issued, as I did in this case.  This allows the parties  an opportunity to 
comment or to provide  new information to be considered.  
Mr Y said I was clearly wrong,  because he earned £75,000 in 1999. He later clarified 
this to say he earned £75,656 in 1998. And his annual salary was £65,500 plus 
bonuses in 1999-2001.  
Mr and Mrs Ys new mortgage and PPI was taken out in October  1999,  so the 
relevant HMRC records regarding earnings are those from April 1999  to April 2000. 
The annual salary  of £75,656 Mr Y refers to relates  to the previous tax year April 
1998 to April 1999. 
I can see from HMRCs records that Mr Y changed  job roles in 1999 and he ceased  
working for his employer  in December 1999.  Ill refer to this employer as E1. At the 
outset, Mr Y told us he ceased  working for E1 in October 1999. Its possible that he 
knew at the time he took out his mortgage  in October  1999  that he was changing 
employers, as he was moving house and taking out a new mortgage. He also told us 
that a lot of his jobs had 6 month notice periods. He earned around £45,000 from E1 
between April and December 1999.  He earned around £15,000 from his new 
employer (E2) in the remaining part of the tax year 1999/2000. He was still working 
for E2 in the 2000/2001 tax year,  when  he earned a salary in the region of £66,000.
I dont know how much Mr and Mrs Y borrowed in 1999 when they took out their new 
mortgage. But, I can see the last payment they made to clear this mortgage  was in 
excess of £145,000 in 2004.  So, I think they probably increased their borrowing when 
they took out their new mortgage  and moved home.
It seems  the crux of this dispute, as far as Mr and Mrs Y are concerned,  is that they 
feel they didnt  need this PPI and that their earnings  and savings in particular show  
this. But, even taking  into account Mr Ys higher  salary in 1999, I still dont think  that 
their level of income and their general  circumstances  at the time of these sales was 
such that these  policies were clearly  unsuitable  for them. I still think  PPI couldve 
provided them with valuable protection for their home, particularly during a period of 
transition on the home and work front.
Taking all of this into account,  I cant see that either  policy  was clearly unsuitable for them 
when it was sold or that it was unreasonable for BoI to recommend them,  if it did.
clear information
I cant know what was discussed with Mr and Mrs Y at the time of these  sales  or what, if 
any written information they got. Mr and Mrs Y say the PPI wasnt properly explained to 
them. Its possible that the information  BoI gave them couldve been  clearer about the 
terms, costs and benefits of the policies. So, Ive gone on to consider whether having 
better information wouldve led them to make a different decision and not take out PPI. I 
dont think that it would. I say that largely for the same reasons as set out above. The 
policies were in my view suitable in their circumstances,  I think they wouldve understood 
theyd be paying  something for them and I think they likely chose to have PPI. So, I cant 
see that Mr and Mrs Y have lost out because of anything that BoI couldve done better. 
I have taken into account everything that Mr and Mrs Y have said, including  that the 
decision not to uphold their complaint would be inconsistent with how other  businesses  
Ref: DRN44884959have responded  to their PPI complaints. However,  we consider each case on its own set 
of facts and merits. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Y feel strongly and will be disappointed at this outcome. And its 
difficult to decide  complaints  like this, where  theres so little information available about how 
the PPI was sold. But on balance, taking into account everything Ive read and been  told, I 
cant fairly and reasonably  say that either PPI policy was mis-sold.
my decision
For these reasons, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4488495