K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Skipton Building  Society  mis-sold Mrs E and Mr R payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1989. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs E disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mrs E and Mr Rs comments. However,  Ive decided not to uphold  
this complaint. I will explain  why.
I think Skipton made Mrs E and Mr R aware  that the PPI was optional,  but that they still 
chose to take it.
Skipton recommended  the PPI to Mrs E and Mr R, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable,  
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Mrs E has said her public  sector 
employment would have been  very secure and received good sickness benefits. She has 
said she would never have needed  to make a claim. But I dont think that is quite right. If she 
had been unwell for a long period, her full sick pay would have eventually run out.
Being unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid 
benefits at the same  time as Mrs E (the person covered)  received any employer sick pay, 
and potentially for longer than she received full pay. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when MRs E 
and Mr R would need to fall back on the family  help theyve said they could have called 
upon. So the PPI could  have put Mrs E and Mr R in a more  secure position, if they 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. So I think the 
recommendation that Mrs E take PPI wasnt an unsuitable one.
Mrs E has said that the PPI should have covered Mr R, as his employment  was more at risk. 
Its possible she might  be right on this. But that doesnt mean the actual  recommendation of 
cover for Mrs E herself was unsuitable, as Ive explained already. If Mr R had needed to 
make a claim at some point, then its possible this would have led to an unfairness arising 
from the recommendation.  But that didnt happened, and so Mrs E and Mr R havent lost out 
from this possible failing  in the advice Skipton gave. The premiums they paid would have 
been the same in total whether or not Mr R was included in the cover  they just would each 
have been entitled to only a proportion of the full benefit payable. 
The monthly price of the policy  was shown. So I think Mrs E and Mr R would have 
understood how much it would cost. 
Ref: DRN47175692Its possible Skipton didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs E and Mr R would have been  affected  by any of these.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4717569