K821x#15complaint
Mr O complained that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited wrongly  settled another drivers 
claim under his motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr O was involved in an incident with another car in 2015. He said that there was no impact 
and neither car was damaged. But years later he discovered that Admiral had settled the 
other drivers  claim against him and recorded  that on the insurance  database.  It was found 
there by his new insurer, who increased his premium because of it. 
Mr O complained that Admiral hadnt  done enough  to contact him and had settled without 
telling him. He was unhappy that having  a fault claim  against him would increase his 
premiums now and in future. 
Admiral accepted that they hadnt  done enough to contact Mr O before settling the claim. 
They offered  him compensation of £50 for this. But they thought  that their decision to settle 
as they did was correct on the evidence they had. 
The investigator recommended  that Mr Os complaint should be upheld. He thought that they 
could have defended Mr Os position more  firmly  against the claim and that their actions had 
prejudiced Mr O. He thought that they should increase their offer of compensation to £100 
and remove the record of the fault claim from the insurance database and make it incident  
only. Admiral were willing to increase the compensation but wouldnt  change the database  
and so the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  who is at fault for causing an accident, as this is the role of the courts.  
Instead, our role in complaints of this kind is simply to investigate whether an insurer has 
acted fairly  and reasonably, and in line with their policys terms and conditions  when they 
made their decision as regards who was responsible.  
Mr Os policy  confirms that Admiral have discretion to decide liability. This is a common  term 
in motor insurance policies, and it allows Admiral  to settle any claim against his policy  as 
they see fit, whether  Mr O agrees with it or not. Insurers are entitled to make a commercial  
decision about whether its reasonable for them to contest a claim or better for them  to settle  
it. This means that Admiral dont need Mr Os consent to decide  on liability,  but they do still 
need to show  that theyve  made a reasonable decision after reviewing the available  
evidence fully. 
Mr O said as follows. He almost  collided  with another  car but there  was no impact as Mr O 
braked in time. There was no damage  to his car or the other car. He notified  Admiral and 
they arranged  for an independent assessor to inspect Mr Os car. After  that he didnt hear 
from Admiral again and so he assumed that was the end of the matter.  But then in 2018,  
when renewing  his insurance,  his new insurer told him that theyd  found  on the insurance 
claims database a 2015  incident  he hadnt  told them about.  So they said theyd  need  to 
increase his premium.  
Ref: DRN45410322Mr O complained to Admiral. They said that, after they had his car inspected, they were 
unsuccessful in contacting him. So they settled the claim on a without prejudice basis. But 
Mr O said that if theyd  contacted him, he could have given them  the necessary information 
to refuse  the claim. 
Mr O was clearly  co-operating with Admiral as hed already reported the incident, given them 
his account of the incident, and had attended  the engineers inspection of his car. So I dont 
think that Admiral tried very hard to contact Mr O again after that. But as they accept that, I 
dont need to go into the details of it. I think the £100 suggested by the investigator does 
reflect the distress and inconvenience Mr O experienced  as result of Admirals  actions.
Admiral thought that their decision that Mr O was at fault was correct.  They  thought that they 
had enough evidence on which to fairly decide that Mr O was responsible  for the incident. 
They believed that there had been  an impact between the cars. This was because  their 
inspection showed  that Mr Os car had some damage. But Mr O said that this damage had 
been pre-existing. The inspector couldnt  confirm either way, as he couldnt tell how old the 
damage was. 
The other drivers insurer provided a report which said that the other  drivers car had 
damage which was consistent with his account  of events. But the independent assessors  
report Admiral  obtained  said that, although  Mr Os car did have some damage to it, the 
damage that the other driver claimed  to his car was not compatible  with contact by Mr Os 
car. The assessor said that the photos  of the other drivers car simply do not support the 
damages or repair methods detailed in the engineers report  on the other  drivers  car. The 
assessor said that there was only light damage  to Mr Os car, but even light contact  with the 
other car would be expected to create some marking on that other car, but there  wasnt  any 
visible. He recommended that Admiral have the other drivers car inspected  and obtain the 
heights of the damage to allow the damage  on both cars to be cross referenced. 
Alternatively, if the other driver had already  had his car repaired,  his insurers should  be 
asked to provide  additional images to support  the damage he claimed.
.
So essentially the independent assessor  suggested  that Admiral  get further information to 
challenge or establish the other drivers  claim that it was Mr Os car which  had caused the 
claimed damage to the other drivers  car. Our investigator asked Admiral  for evidence that 
theyd done more, but they didnt provide that. Instead they repeated  that, although there  
was a dispute between the experts about the extent  of the damage,  Admiral  believed the 
evidence supported that there had been  some damage and that this was Mr Os fault. 
But I think that, in the context  of Mr O being adamant  that there hadnt been a collision, the 
independent assessors evidence cast  doubt  about  not only the extent of the damage,  but 
about whether  there had been any impact at all. And so I think  that if Admiral had done  what  
the independent assessor had suggested, they could have more  effectively challenged the 
other drivers  account.  
I think that Admirals lack of investigation prejudiced Mr Os position.  So Im not persuaded 
that Admiral did act fairly and reasonably on the evidence available.  And so I think  that they 
should remove the fault claim record  against Mr O from internal and external insurance 
databases and instead record it as incident only.  They should also provide him with a letter  
confirming that they have  done this and that they recorded  it as fault in error. He can show 
this to his current insurers  and ask them to reassess his premium.  He can also show it to 
future insurers for clarification.
Ref: DRN45410323my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I uphold  this complaint and I  
require Admiral Insurance Company  Limited  to: 
pay Mr O  £100  in compensation  for his distress  and inconvenience  
remove from external and internal databases  the record  of the incident as fault and 
record it instead as an incident only rather than as a fault claim. 
provide Mr O with a letter confirming that they have done  so and that they made the  
fault claim record in error   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman 
Admiral must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we tell them Mr O 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Admiral consider that they are required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr O how much they have taken off, and give Mr O a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
Ref: DRN4541032