K820x#14complaint
Miss P says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Miss P bought  the policy  in 1997  at the same time as taking  out a credit  card.  Our 
adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion, so the complaint has been  passed to me. 
Although her representatives  asked us to issue a decision in this case they gave no 
explanation as to why they or Miss P disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ps complaint because:
 Miss P ticked a box on the credit agreement to confirm she wanted PPI. So I think  
FICL made Miss P aware that she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss P so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Miss P about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Miss P doesnt  appear  to have been affected by most of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. She had previously had an operation 
due to a medical condition.  And a recurrence of that condition may not have been 
covered. But the operation was around  seven years before she took out the PPI. She 
wasnt taking any medication or having  regular check-ups  relating to it. And shes  told 
us it did not affect her day to day working life. So I dont  think better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying  the PPI. 
Ive taken into account Miss Ps comments. But these points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4387618