K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs M took out on a store card account in October  1999.  
It was added  to her account when she applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain  why.
I think FICL  made Mrs M aware that she had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. I say this because FICL  has given  us a copy of the store  card application form 
from the time of sale. This shows there was a separate section for PPI and that it is presented 
as optional. It says under this section only sign if you want cover. Mrs M has then signed in this 
box on the application form to say she consented  to the information  contained  in it. So I think 
this reflected what she wanted.  Had Mrs M not wanted the PPI she could have completed the 
application and not signed a box in the separate section agreeing to have the cover.
I cant be sure what happened at the time of sale when this application  form was completed by 
the parties, but based on what I know of how sales were conducted  and without further 
information to support  what Mrs M is saying, I cannot safely  conclude  anything other than the 
form demonstrates a fair reflection of what Mrs M wanted at that time (and she signed  at the 
bottom of the application agreeing to have the card and PPI.)
So, on balance,  I think Mrs M was aware the policy was optional and she agreed to take it 
out, knowing  it was something she could say no to.
This application was made by Mrs M completing an application in a store. So because  of 
this, I dont think a recommendation was made by FICL. So FICL didnt have to check  if the 
policy was suitable  for her. But it still needed  to make sure it gave Mrs M enough information 
to make an informed choice whether the policy was right for her, taking into account her 
personal circumstances.
Its possible the information FICL  gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have  
been. So I need to consider if Mrs M would have acted differently and not bought the policy,  
if better information had been provided.  And on balance I dont think better  information  
wouldve led her to act differently.
Ref: DRN49069962I say this because  I think  the PPI could have been useful to Mrs M in that her store card 
payments would be met in addition to any other provisions she held. Mrs M initially said she 
was unsure what her sick pay would  have been due to the amount of time that had passed. 
But more  recently  says her sick pay would  have been between 6 and 12 months pay and 
that she had savings too. Our adjudicator has asked for further information about this but 
Mrs M has not been able to provide  anything  else to support what  she has said in this 
regard. So it has been difficult  for me to understand what Mrs M would have had to rely on at 
the time of sale if she was made  unemployed or was sick.
As it is not clear to me what  Mrs M would have been entitled to at the time of sale, I think the 
policy would have provided a useful benefit for her. I havent seen enough information that 
would suggest  to me she would have been  put off from having  it if she was given clearer  
information about it. I also couldnt  see any significant or limiting terms that would have 
affected Mrs Ms decision to take the policy out either.
Im not sure FICL gave clear information  on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think  this 
would have affected Mrs Ms decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have  already  
given. The policy seemed affordable and she could have cancelled it at any time. 
Ive taken into account all Mrs Ms comments,  but for the reasons mentioned above, these 
points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4906996