K820x#14complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is about the service provided  by British Gas Insurance Limited in relation 
to a central heating and gas appliance insurance  policy. 
background
Mrs H has held the policy with British Gas for several years. The policy includes an annual  
service of her gas fire. British Gas serviced Mrs Hs gas fire each year and there  were  never  
any problems with it. However, when it was serviced  on 4 December 2018,  the engineer said 
it had not been installed correctly making it unsafe  and so it had to be disconnected. 
Mrs H is unhappy that British Gas disconnected the fire. She said it was installed around 25 
years before and had been serviced for several years and always passed without any 
problem; nothing had changed to mean it would need to be disconnected this time. 
Mrs H also says British Gas came to her property  for a boiler  check and to install a smart 
meter shortly before the appointment on 4 December 2018  and both those engineers had 
also checked the fire. She asked British  Gas for details of whatever  legislation it has relied 
on to disconnect the fire but says she has not received this. 
British Gas sent a service  manager out to check the fire again after Mrs H complained. 
He confirmed its position that the fire had to be disconnected. British Gas says the fire 
appeared to have been secured into place with silicone but this had worn,  so the fire was 
now loose in its catchments area. It read the installation instructions and it says the fire 
should not have been installed/secured this way. The fire should be tight in its catchment 
area and it was now unsafe  and so had to be disconnected. 
British Gas did however,  agree to refund the part of the premium  for the year 2018 -2019 for 
the gas fire (i.e. £46.26). This was sent in two payments, as British Gas initially got the 
amount wrong.  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He didnt think  the complaint should be 
upheld. The investigator said the other engineers  that visited in 2018  had not checked  the 
fire. He also said he didnt think it was unreasonable for British Gas to have only noticed the 
fire wasnt installed correctly once the fire had come  loose in the catchment area and also 
that it could not be removed  for the engineer  to check behind  it and so he couldnt  service it 
properly. Overall, the investigator thought  British  Gas had acted reasonably. 
Mrs H doesnt accept  the investigators  assessment,  so the matter has been passed to me. 
She has made a number  of points, in her initial complaint and in response to the investigator.  
I have summarised these below: 
British Gas took seconds looking at the installation instructions before saying the fire 
had been installed  incorrectly. 
The fire is fitted  tightly  into position and there  is no way it has been secured in place with 
silicone. It has been there  for 25 years. 
The engineer didnt do any checks, he simply knelt down and looked at the fire. 
When she asked  when  the law came in that mean the had to disconnect  it, he told her 
about a year.  
If this engineer  is right,  then every  other  engineer that has serviced  the fire annually  for 
nine years,  and checked it on other  occasions  too, is wrong  which  is unlikely. 
Ref: DRN48634172The safety check left by the engineer  says there  is a problem with the flue but as he 
didnt light the fire he cant  have tested the flue.
It lied in the final response letter and said she had said she was left at risk when she didnt.
British Gas representative was rude to her on the phone. 
Mrs H wants her fire reconnected,  or a refund of the premium for the fire for all the years that 
it was not inspected properly (if that is the case). 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs H is extremely dissatisfied with the fact her gas fire has been  
deemed unsafe after it has been in situ for 25 years and, as far as she can tell, nothing has 
changed. Mrs H says it is still secure  in its position. 
While I have no reason to doubt anything Mrs H has said,  British  Gas is entitled to rely on its 
gas engineers  advice. There is no other qualified opinion  available  to me about the safety  of 
the fire, how it is secured and whether it is secure enough.  
British Gas could  have been clearer: it was on the one hand saying the fire was loose and 
therefore unsafe but also saying it could not be removed from its catchment area and so it 
couldnt service it properly. It also misrepresented the point made by Mrs H. However, it 
appears that the reason  it was deemed  unsafe  is that the engineer was able to move  it within  
its catchment area. This is something that they are required to test for when carrying out an 
annual service. And gas engineers then have to follow regulations (including the Gas Safety 
(Installation and Use) Regulations 1998) in order to make a gas appliance  safe, which is 
what was done  here.  
While I can understand all that Mrs H says, I am unable therefore, on the current evidence 
available to me, to conclude  that the gas engineer  is incorrect.  They  are qualified to assess  
the safety and operation of gas appliances.
my final decision
Despite my natural  sympathy for Mrs Hs position,  I do not uphold this complaint against 
British Gas Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4863417