K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
In 1997 Mr and Mrs V took out a PPI policy with their mortgage.  The policy covered Mr V 
only for accident, sickness and unemployment and would have provided a monthly benefit of 
£600. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs V disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Vs case.   
The PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs V during a meeting with Halifax,  when they were applying 
for a mortgage. Mr and Mrs V say they might have signed documents agreeing to the PPI, 
but they did so without  realising what they were  buying. They say they were completely 
unaware they had the PPI and that if theyd known they had it Mr V would have claimed  on 
the policy when  he was made  redundant  in 2000.  They also say that they didnt need the PPI 
as Mr V had generous  employment benefits and they had some savings. 
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mr and Mrs V and Halifax  when they 
were discussing  the mortgage  and PPI. But I can see that both Mr and Mrs V signed their 
mortgage application to say they wanted to apply for PPI. Mr V also signed a separate 
application form for the PPI which required him to answer questions about  his lifestyle and 
health. Because of the answers he gave he then went on to provide additional information 
about his health. So it does look to me as though there was a discussion about the PPI, 
even if Mr and Mrs V dont think, with hindsight, they knew  they were buying PPI.
Mr V says hed have claimed  on the policy if hed known he had it. Ive seen records that 
show Mr V did claim on the policy in 2002/2003, after hed been made redundant, although I 
understand he may have forgotten this as it was a long time ago.  
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs V. So it had to make sure it suited their needs. 
Im satisfied the policy was suitable  given Mr and Mrs Vs circumstances, because:
 
Mr V was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. Mrs V doesnt appear  to have been employed at the time, so wouldnt have 
been eligible.  That indicates some level of discussion  took place before the PPI was set 
up, and that it reflected Mr and Mrs Vs circumstances.
Mr V says he would  have received some work-related benefits if he couldnt work due to 
illness or accident. But the policy would  have paid out in addition to the occupational 
Ref: DRN42795262benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having  the policy in place would mean Mr 
and Mrs V could use any work-related benefits  and savings  to pay for other  expenses. 
I think Mr and Mrs V would have had some use for the policy despite their existing 
arrangements.
Mr V wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people. Mr V has told us about an operation hed had a 
few years before he and Mrs V bought the PPI  but it wasnt  something  he was still 
having treatment  and not a condition that would  re-occur,  so the exclusion for 
pre-existing medical conditions wouldnt have affected him. As Mr V could  have 
benefited from the full extent of the cover  I think it unlikely  Mr and Mrs V needed better  
advice or information  about the policys exclusions and limitations. 
Mr and Mrs V were  told the cost of the policy when they applied for it. Ive seen nothing  
to suggest it was unaffordable or that the benefit was insufficient to meet their total 
monthly mortgage repayments, nor have I seen that Mr and Mrs V queried  the payment 
over the years.
Its possible that some of the information  the society gave  Mr and Mrs V about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. I think they chose to take out the policy  and so 
appear to have wanted this type of cover,  and given their circumstances I dont think  better 
information would have affected  their decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
let me know  whether they accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4279526