K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained about a number of loans he took out through  a company called Elevate 
Credit International  Limited, trading at the time as Sunny. Mr J says he was lent to 
irresponsibly and the loans caused him financial problems.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer mainly to Sunny throughout this decision.
background
We now know that Mr J took out 4 instalment  loans  from Sunny; all were  in March 2017.  Ive 
enclosed a summary of Mr Js borrowing with Sunny,  based  on the information it provided to 
us. It can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision.  
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it should  be upheld  
in respect of loan number  4 only. Sunny made  an offer to settle the complaint but this wasnt  
agreed to by Mr J. Ive been asked to make an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice, on our website. Ive followed this approach when  thinking  about Mr Js 
complaint.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that Mr J could 
repay all the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These  checks  ought to have  taken 
into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total repayment  
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Sunny should  have  fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr J could sustainably repay the loans; not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN47622782Of course,  the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr J could 
sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt  automatically follow  that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define  sustainable as being  without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Sunny told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to 
Mr J including assessing his income,  expenditure and creditworthiness.  It says that at the 
time all this information showed  that he would be able to make the loan repayments he was 
committing to. Ive thought about this and also looked at the overall pattern of lending  history 
with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen  that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at some 
point, Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further  loans to Mr J. 
Ive taken account of what  Ive said above,  about the length of the lending relationship, and 
applied it to the circumstances of loans  1  3 in this case. And I dont think its clear  enough  
that what Sunny  would have seen, from its checks,  suggested loans 1  3 were  
unaffordable for Mr J. I accept that Mr J may have already been  finding managing money  
quite difficult at this point. However,  theres  no clear record that the type or depth of credit 
checks carried out at that time would have exposed these issues. So Im afraid I dont agree 
that Sunny knew its lending was unsustainable  for loans  1 - 3. I therefore dont uphold  this 
part of the complaint.
However, I think from the point of loan number 4, the situation was different and the types of 
checks Sunny ought to have carried out should  have been much more comprehensive and 
searching. Thats because by that point  hed been  borrowing  rapidly  hed asked for 4 loans 
in just 10 days. He was also applying  for this loan when the first 3 were all still outstanding;  
in fact he hadnt even started to make any payments on them.  So I think any reasonable 
assessment of Mr Js situation  would  have clearly shown that something wasnt  right.
Had Sunny  carried  out more diligent  financial checking, it would  have seen that as well as 
the existing Sunny loans, Mr J was indebted  to other  businesses  and he was having trouble 
with those debts.  It would have also been  easy to see that he was heavily gambling, 
confirming he was in an uncomfortable financial situation. Our experience of short-term 
lending tells us that consumers who have  difficulty managing their money  in this way are 
less likely to be able to sustainably repay  a loan. With this information,  I dont think  Sunny 
ought to have lent him the money  for the loan 4. I dont think it was responsible  to do so.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mr J, Sunny should:
Ref: DRN47622783refund  all interest and charges Mr J paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loans 1, 2 and 3, and treat any 
payments Mr J made towards these loan as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Mr Js loans 1, 2 and 3 accounts  as Ive directed results  in Mr J 
effectively having made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Sunny 
should refund these  overpayments  with 8% simple  interest  calculated  on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of 
settlement. 
if reworking Mr Js loans 1, 2 and 3 accounts  leaves  an amount of capital  still to be 
paid, then Sunny can use the total refund for any other outstanding loans to offset 
this. And if there is still an outstanding  capital balance then I would remind Sunny 
that it should take a sympathetic view when  seeking to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr J for the remaining capital;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Js credit file in relation to loan 4.
if any of the debts were sold then Sunny  must attempt buy back  the debt or otherwise 
ensure the above  is strictly complied with
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr J a certificate showing 
how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mr Js complaint and direct Elevate Credit International Limited to put things 
right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Taken  Out Repaid Instalments Amount Combined Monthly 
Repayment
Ref: DRN476227841 11/03/2017 Outstanding 6 £150.00 £45
2 15/03/2017 Outstanding 6 £100.00 £75
3 20/03/2017 Outstanding 6 £100.00 £104
4 21/03/2017 07/09/2018 6 £100.00 £134
Ref: DRN4762278