K821x#15complaint
Mr I has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc caused him financial loss as a 
result of delays that occurred to him being able to make claims on his credit  card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy because of mis-information it had given him.
background
I have attached the main body of the text from my provisional decision from March 2020,  
which forms part of this final decision.  In my provisional decision I set out why I was thinking 
of partly upholding Mr Is complaint. I invited  both parties to provide any further  submissions 
they may wish to make before I reached a final decision. Nat West responded to say that it 
accepted my provisional decision. Mr I made  some  further comments that I will address 
below.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I says that, in 2005, the Department  of Employment accepted  that he had been made 
redundant even  though he had signed a compromise agreement  with his former  employer.  
Ive thought very carefully about this, but the criteria required by the Department  of 
Employment may have  been different than that required under the insurance policy. Overall, 
it has not persuaded me to change  my view. Therefore,  the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision still stand.
Although the outcome is unchanged  from my provisional decision, the parties  should  note 
that I have  amended the redress slightly (I had originally  said interest should be paid until the 
date that Nat West pays the amount  to Mr I, when it should have said until the date that the 
insurer paid the claim).
putting things right
Nat West should:
pay Mr I simple interest on the amount of £2,592.96 from November 2008 until the 
date that his claim was paid. The interest  rate should be 8% a year.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Nat West to take off tax from this interest.  Nat West must 
give Mr I a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I partly  uphold Mr Is complaint and require National Westminster Bank 
Plc to pay compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Ref: DRN40065672Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN40065673COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr I has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc caused him financial loss as a result of 
delays that occurred to him being able to make claims on his credit card payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy because of mis-information it had given him.
background
Mr I has made a previous  complaint about how Nat West provided  incorrect advice about who the 
underwriter of the policy was, thereby  preventing him from making claims on the policy  when he was 
made redundant.
Another ombudsman  upheld that complaint and awarded £400 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr I. As Mr I had not made  his claims  retrospectively  at that time, the ombudsman was not 
in a position  to consider whether or not there had been any further detriment to Mr I.
In 2018 Mr I subsequently made retrospective claims  on the policy  for two periods of unemployment. 
His claim relating to 2005 was unsuccessful. However,  the insurer  did pay out on his second claim for 
unemployment in 2007.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr I disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  and so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
As another ombudsman has already determined  the level of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr 
I and made  an award for that, I cannot look at that issue again. Therefore this complaint is only 
looking at whether  Mr I suffered financial  loss as a result of the Nat Wests actions.
Re: 2005 claim
The insurer assessed Mr Is claim  for unemployment  for a period beginning 2 August 2005. However, 
it declined his claim on the basis  that Mr I had resigned  from his job and the policy did not cover 
voluntary unemployment.  Mr I had provided  a copy of a compromise agreement that hed entered into 
with his employer.
Mr I accepts the insurers  position in declining  the claim based on the available  evidence.  His 
complaint is that, if Nat West had correctly  signposted him to the insurer in 2005, the outcome would 
have been different.
Mr I says that he was forced to resign  and that the insurer has confirmed that he would be covered in 
that scenario. But that would depend  on Mr I providing supporting evidence showing  that he was 
forced to resign.  Mr I says that, if it hadnt been for Nat Wests errors,  he would have made the claim 
in 2005 and would have been able to provide the necessary information  required.  He says that, as his 
former-employer has ceased  trading, he is now not able to get that evidence.
Had Mr I been able to make  his claim for unemployment  in 2005  and provided  a copy of his 
compromise agreement, I find that his claim  would still have been declined  at that stage. Because, 
taking the evidence of the compromise  agreement at face value, it shows that Mr I resigned and 
received a lump sum payment in return.
Ref: DRN40065674Its reasonable  for an insurer to assess claims on the basis  of the information  that it is presented  with. 
We wouldnt normally expect  an insurer to take steps to look behind the reasons for a compromise 
agreement, unless there  was cause  for it to do so. It would therefore have been up to Mr I to present 
further evidence to persuade  the insurer  that he had been forced to resign. As Mr I says it is the fact 
that the company no longer exists that is preventing  him from getting  that evidence now, presumably 
it is his ex-employer who he would have approached  in 2005  to provide further information to 
corroborate his position.
I accept that circumstances  leading up a compromise  agreement can be complicated. A compromise 
agreement allows an employer and employee to part ways without any admission  of fault or liability  on 
either side. It would be unusual  for an employer to subsequently  say anything to undermine  the terms 
set out in a compromise  agreement.  On balance I find it unlikely  that Mr Is ex-employer would have 
been willing to provide  any information that would contradict the reasonable assumption that the 
agreement was entered into voluntarily by both parties. It follows that I am not persuaded that Mr Is 
claim for unemployment  would have succeeded even if he had been able to make  it in 2005.  
Therefore I am currently unable  to conclude that Mr I is any worse off as a result of Nat Wests 
failings.
Re: 2007 claim
As Ive already mentioned,  Mr Is retrospective claim for a period of unemployment in 2007 was 
successful.
According to information received from the insurer, Mr Is claim was for a period of unemployment 
from 27 December 2007 to 27 October 2008. Mr I became aware he was to be made  redundant on 29 
November 2007 and the insurer has taken the credit card balance on this date of £2,575.79,  as the 
starting point  for its claim calculation.
The policy benefit was 10% of the outstanding balance  for up to 12 months. Once 10 payments are 
made the balance at the incurred date is cleared  and the following two months cover the interest 
payments (should the claim still be running). The claim payment in this instance was made up of nine 
payments of £257.57,  one payment of £257.66  and an additional £17.17 payment for interest (pro-
rated to the day Mr I ceased to register as unemployed). So in total Mr I received £2,592.96. Had Mr I 
been in a position to make  the claim in 2007, assuming that Mr I didnt continue using the credit card 
(as is usual during a claim  period) the outstanding balance would  have reduced incrementally (even  
with the addition of monthly interest) until the balance was cleared.
What actually happened in 2007 is that Mr I continued to spend on the card.  However, he was paying 
off the balance  in full every month and therefore incurring  no interest.  Mr I says that his in-laws were 
providing the funds to pay off the full outstanding balance  each month.
Because Mr I was in the fortunate position  of being able to pay off the card every month, the situation 
he actually found himself in at the end of the claim period was the same as if hed been  able to make 
the claim at the time.  The only reason  that the balance wasnt  zero at that point is because  Mr I 
continued to spend on the card.
Mr I has said that he would like compensation based on the compounded credit card interest rate for 
the financial loss he suffered. However,  for the reasons explained above,  I am satisfied that Mr Is 
credit card balance wasnt adversely affected  at the time.
However, Mr I would have had to pay his in-laws back once he started  working again. Had the claim 
been actioned at the time,  he would have had to pay them  back  £2,592.96 less. So he has been  out 
of pocket for that amount since around November 2008. Mr I has lost the benefit of having  that 
amount of money available to him and therefore  I consider that Nat West should  compensate  him for 
loss of use of those funds.
Ref: DRN40065675my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I partly uphold Mr Is complaint and require National  Westminster Bank 
Plc to pay fair compensation as detailed above.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4006567