K821x#15complaint
Mr G says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial Insurance 
Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to FICL  in this decision, rather than any other  business.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 9 January  2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
this policy  had been mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
9 February 2019.  Mr Gs representative  accepted  the provisional decision,  whereas FICL 
didnt reply.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side has added any new evidence or arguments for me to consider. So having  
reviewed everything,  Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that if FICL  had given 
Mr G clear enough information about  the PPI, then its most likely  he wouldnt have bought it.
putting things right
FICL should put Mr G in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr G would  have  owed  when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr G owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him. Similarly, if Mr G has already received a refund 
of the commission  part of the PPI, then FICL can take that off of the amount it owes him, 
so that the same amount  is not refunded twice.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr G would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% simple  a year.
Ref: DRN49075702C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr G would have owed each month  without PPI  he 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr G paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when Mr G 
wouldve owed FICL  something on his store  card. The interest rate should again  be 8% 
simple a year.
D.FICL should tell Mr G what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Gs 
complaint about  Financial  Insurance  Company  Limited.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN49075703COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr G says he was mis-sold  a payment  protection insurance (PPI)  policy. Financial  Insurance 
Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale.  To keep  things simple, 
Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
This complaint is about  a store card PPI policy Mr G took out in 2000. It was added  to his account  
during a phone call. It covered Mr G in case  he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
FICL didnt recommend the policy to Mr G, so it didnt  have to check it was right for him. It did have to 
give Mr G information about the PPI that was clear, fair, and not misleading,  so he could check for 
himself whether it was right for him.
I cant  see that FICL gave Mr G clear enough information about how unemployment claims  worked. 
I think  this wouldve mattered to Mr G, as he had a second job. From what hes told us, he often 
worked enough  hours at the second job that in order  to claim for unemployment hed have to lose 
both of his jobs. And that was very unlikely to happen at the same time.  So it looks like it wouldve 
been much  more difficult for Mr G to have  claimed than he wouldve  reasonably expected.
So I think that if FICL had given Mr G clear enough information about  the PPI, then its most likely  he 
wouldnt have bought it. And so I think Mr G has probably  lost out because  of the failings at the sale.
what I think the business should do
I propose that FICL puts Mr G in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken  out PPI.
E. FICL should find out how much  Mr G would have owed when he closed his store  card account if 
the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges. 
FICL should then refund the difference between what Mr G owed when  he closed his account  
and what he would have  owed  if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr G made  a successful claim  under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for the claim 
from the amount  it owes him. Similarly,  if Mr G has already received a refund of the commission  
part of the PPI, then FICL can take that off of the amount it owes him, so that the same amount is 
not refunded twice.
Ref: DRN49075704F. FICL should add simple  interest on the difference between what  Mr G would have owed when he 
closed his account from when he closed  it until he gets the refund. The interest rate should be 
8% simple a year.
G. If  when  FICL works out what Mr G would have owed each month without PPI  he paid more 
than enough to clear his balance,  FICL should also pay simple interest on the extra  Mr G paid. 
And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr G wouldve  owed FICL something 
on his store  card. The interest rate should again be 8% simple a year.
H. FICL should tell Mr G what its done to work out E, F and G.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mr G a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I plan to uphold  Mr Gs complaint, and to direct Financial  Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right in the way I set out above.
Please could  FICL and Mr G send  me any more  information  or comments  to look at by 9 February 
2019. After that, Ill issue my final decision.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4907570