K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited no longer provides detailed  
information on his annual review letter about  minimum earnings information.
background
Mr A holds an income protection policy with Aviva. He has complained  that Aviva doesnt  
openly advise  the minimum earnings required to be able to gain the full benefit  from its 
income protection policies, if any policyholder were required or wanted to do so. He believes 
it stopped doing this after 2014. He considers this information is of particular  importance,  
because hes calculated  that the premium  and cover available rose by a lesser amount in 
2017 than the amount of minimum  earnings  required to gain the full benefit of the policy.  
Mr A considers Aviva no longer including this information on the annual  review letter  is 
unfair. He says that many policy holders will not be aware of the issues   as he believes that 
the minimum earnings are rising  in a way that means people  would  be overpaying for their 
policy. Mr A has complained to Aviva  about  this issue on more than one occasion.
Aviva has explained  that it made a commercial decision to stop including this information on 
its annual review letter. It explained that a number of factors  are unknown  until someone 
goes to claim and so claims assessment is a better time for this information  to be given. 
However, if Mr A felt he needed this information when he was completing his annual  review 
then he could speak  to Aviva and find out what he was asking for.
Mr A didnt agree and so brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold  
his complaint. She explained that our role was to look into individual  complaints and the 
impact of the issue on the consumer who has brought  the case. So we would only be looking 
into how this issue has affected  Mr A. And she said she couldnt that the removal  of this 
information from the letter has actually impacted him. 
Mr A provided further reasons as to why he considered Avivas actions were  unfair  and 
dishonest. However  our investigator didnt change  her view and said she didnt consider it 
onerous for Mr A to request this information  from Aviva annually if he considered  he needed  
it. Mr A disagreed that it wasnt onerous to get this information and said the truth was being 
hidden from customers.  So the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has set out to Mr A, our services  role is to look into individual complaints. 
So I will only be commenting on the way Avivas  change to its annual  review letter has 
impacted him. I wont be commenting on the hypothetical situations hes raised on how this 
issue could impact other customers. And as we arent the industry regulator, I also cant 
comment on legitimate commercial judgements Aviva makes   as its entitled  to do this. I 
can only look to see if a commercial judgement is a legitimate one.
Ref: DRN49317932I cant see that the decision to stop including this information isnt a legitimate  judgement.  
Aviva has explained  that it was concerned  about  the accuracy of the information when 
provided in this way  considering the other  factors that apply when a claim is made. So it 
seems it has made this call so it can provide better information to the customers  of this type 
of policy. And as this information is still available to these customers  in another  form, it also 
hasnt stopped or prevented customers from accessing this information.  So I dont think 
Aviva has acted unfairly.
Mr A has also provided another customers policy to show that some  customers do have  
access to this information on their annual updates. But again this is a judgement call Aviva 
has made for other  customers. And I have to consider how this decision has impacted him  
not another customer  or another type of policy.
I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mr A, but I cant  see how this change has 
actually had an impact  on him. I understand from his comments how it could have  had an 
impact on him  but I cant see that it has. And while I appreciate  there were some  delays 
previously in getting the information that is no longer  supplied on his annual  review letters,  
this isnt the complaint Im looking into. Aviva has informed Mr A of how he can access  the 
information he needs if he considers its an important part of his decision-making process. 
So while this information is no longer  provided  on the annual review  letters,  it seems he can 
access it. Especially  as Mr A complained about  this in 2017, so hes now aware the 
information wont be on his review letter  so he can ask for this in advance  of making his 
decision if he requires it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4931793