K820x#14Complaint
Mr W is complaining  that his account was suspended and that Next Retail  Limited reported 
some information to credit reference  agencies. 
Background
Mr W has a credit account with Next. He placed an order online and arranged to collect  this 
at a local store. He received a statement in February. This showed the transaction, and said 
the minimum payment  of £5 needed  paying  by 7 March. Mr W didnt make any payment.
Next sent another statement in March. This said that Mr W had failed to make  the minimum 
payment, which  could mean that he broke the terms of his credit agreement. Next also 
notified several credit reference agencies that the account was in arrears,  and it suspended 
the account.
Mr W complained  because  he didnt  receive  anything to tell him that the account was in 
arrears. He said he now has a 1 on his credit file that he doesnt think should be there.  He 
wants Next to correct this.
An investigator looked into this complaint and felt that Next acted correctly.  So she wasnt  
able to ask them to do anything. Mr W disagreed with this outcome and asked that the 
complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the account say that where there is a balance on the account at 
the time a statement  is generated  Mr W must pay Next a minimum monthly payment. They  
also say that Next will register  missed  payments with the credit reference agencies.
Given the terms of the account and the fact that Mr W didnt  make  the payment  by the 
required date (which  isnt in dispute), I think it was fair for Next to notify the credit reference 
agencies. I know Mr W has said he wasnt made  aware that his account was in arrears 
(something I touch  on in the next paragraph), but he did receive the February statement. So 
he was aware of the payment that was due. The payment  had already been  missed by the 
time the March statement  was sent.  So irrespective of whether or not Mr W received the 
March statement, or anything else about the arrears, Next was entitled to notify the credit 
reference agencies.
If the account fell into arrears, Id expect Next to tell Mr W. Ive seen a copy  of the March 
statement, which was correctly addressed. Ive also seen a copy of Nexts computer records,  
which shows that an EML22 email  was sent to Mr W 15 March.  Next has explained  to me 
that EML22 is one of a number  of codes it applies to emails  to show  which  email  was sent. 
Next has provided me with a copy of a sample EML22 email. This says its a reminder  that 
Next hadnt received all of the minimum monthly  payment requested  on the last statement, 
and outlines what  payment is needed  to bring  the account up to date.
Ref: DRN42573832I cant say definitively whether or not Mr W received the March statement or the email   only 
Mr W knows that. But Im persuaded on balance  that Next sent them,  and therefore made 
Mr W aware that the account  was in arrears and what payment was due.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.  
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4257383