K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that their home insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined  
their claim for a damaged water pipe at their home.
background
Mr and Mrs J discovered  a water leak. They called the number for their home emergency 
cover (not provided by UKI). The home emergency plumber couldnt fix the leak (on a lead 
mains pipe)  and told Mr and Mrs J to call UKI.
UKI said Mr and Mrs J needed to find their own plumber to fix the leak. It said it wouldnt 
cover the cost of repairing/replacing  the pipe because the damage was under their floor, not 
outside the house and underground. Mr and Mrs J found a plumber and he carried out a 
temporary repair but said the only guaranteed repair  would be to replace  the whole pipe.
Mr and Mrs J say the repair failed  shortly after it was completed and they then, after asking 
UKI to pay for the work again and being  refused, had the pipe replaced.
UKI did cover Mr and Mrs J for the trace, access and water damage  that had resulted from 
the leaking pipe but despite  many challenges from Mr and Mrs J, it wasnt  prepared  to pay 
for the cost of replacing the pipe. In summary it felt the pipe had reached the end of its 
natural life and there was no cover on the policy for its replacement.  Ive summarised the 
challenges here:
Historically, the trace and access cover on the policy included cover for repairing/replacing  
the pipe.
The policy wording  for trace and access had changed at some point (taking  away cover 
for the pipe itself) before this leak but UKI hadnt  told Mr and Mrs J about the change.
UKI say the pipe isnt underground but it is, by definition, an underground  pipe.
Replacement wasnt preventative, a long-lasting repair couldnt be achieved.
The plumber  said the policy should cover  the replacement cost.
UKI didnt examine the pipe so it cant know why it failed.
The damage must  be classed  as accidental under the policy because the leak was 
sudden, unintended  and resulted  in physical  damage.
UKI kept changing its position  every  time its previous position was challenged.
When Mr and Mrs J complained to us, our investigator felt the pipe could  be classed as an 
underground pipe.  Having noted  the policy documentation included the following:
youre covered  for  Service pipes  and cables. We will pay for physical damage to 
undergrounds drains, pipes, cables and tanks  which you are legally responsible  for and 
which provide services to or from your home.
She felt UKI was liable for the pipe. She also felt that as there was evidence which 
suggested the damage couldnt have been effectively repaired, UKI should  cover the 
replacement costs Mr and Mrs J had incurred.
Mr and Mrs J accepted  the findings. UKI didnt agree with them. UKI didnt think  it was fair to 
say this was an underground pipe because  the damaged part of it was under the floor.  It felt 
it was relevant that the plumber, when  asked, couldnt say what had caused the pipe to fail 
and that there didnt  seem to have been any sign, for example, of any physical impact to the 
pipe having occurred. It noted  the plumber had advised repair wasnt impossible but that 
Ref: DRN45252072replacement was a better  long-term option and it didnt  feel the policy  should  cover that.
I considered the complaint and issued  a provisional decision. I didnt think  UKI had acted  
unfairly when it had declined the claim,  but I felt it should pay £75 compensation as it could 
have dealt with the decline better. The parties responded, neither was happy with what  Id 
said and I reviewed matters. My overall view didnt  change  but, having  noted an important 
issue in respect of the policy  wording,  I issued  a further provisional  decision. My further  
provisional findings, which included reference  to what  Id said initially, were:
trace and access
I said provisionally:
The policy  wording for trace and access in previous years  was different to that which applied 
in the year of the claim. It isnt clear when the wording changed or how this was 
communicated by UKI. However,  the new wording is akin to that available  in all other cover 
Im aware of in the industry.  So whilst  I dont know if UKI clearly highlighted the change to 
Mr and Mrs J, Im not persuaded  any failure in this respect impacted their position.
To find any such failure impacted them Id first have to be satisfied that if Mr and Mrs J had 
been told about it theyd have done something  else. Im not persuaded theyd have noted 
such a change as being significant in terms of the rest of the cover they seem to have been 
generally happy with, which they renewed  each year for a number of years. Further,  even if I 
felt this cover, worded in this way as to cover the cost of replacing the pipe too, was 
important to them, Im not convinced  they could have found  such cover elsewhere.  I say that 
because its standard  in the industry  for trace and access to cover the cost of tracing and 
accessing the damaged pipe to allow for its repair  not the cost of repairing the pipe.
So, in summary,  the wording is clearly different. It isnt clear  if, when the wording was 
changed, UKI highlighted this to Mr and Mrs J as it should have done.  But, if it didnt, it 
doesnt seem that that failure prejudiced their current position in any way.
Mr and Mrs J said my reasoning doesnt  take account of basic contractual  principles; they 
couldnt have  agreed to the term if UKI didnt tell them  about  it. What I said in this respect 
though was I couldnt be sure UKI highlighted  the change to them.  The new wording was in 
later policy documents  and at each renewal Mr and Mrs J were  advised to check the policy  
suited them. By agreeing  to the renewal  Mr and Mrs J agreed  to the changes.
Mr and Mrs J said its clear that adequate  cover  for burst pipes would be important to them 
and that most comparison sites suggest  good  cover includes the repair  of burst  pipes. I dont 
doubt what Mr and Mrs J say in this respect.  But I wasnt  suggesting they wouldnt want  to be 
covered for damage to their pipes. Rather my comments here are made in relation to trace  
and access cover. Had they noted  the change to the trace  and access wording, Im not 
persuaded they would  have thought this generally  compromised  the level of cover  they had 
(because they did have cover for underground  pipes and general accidental  damage cover). 
And even  if they would have felt this was the case,  none of the trace and access cover 
available in the market that I have seen offers cover for repair of the pipe itself.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Js objections but they havent changed my view in this respect.  
My provisional findings remain unchanged.
escape of water
Ref: DRN45252073I explained provisionally that this section of the policy doesnt offer cover  for damage to the 
pipe. Mr and Mrs J accepted this.
service pipes and cables, accidental damage  and the wear  and tear exclusion
Provisionally I explained that whilst there  has been an existing debate  about  whether  the 
pipe can reasonably be classed as an underground  pipe,  consideration  also needed to be 
given as to whether the issue met the definition of accidental damage. My review  of the file 
though shows  that accidental damage  in reference to service  pipes and cables  is old 
wording. So the pipe,  if we are considering it to be an underground pipe, doesnt have to be 
suffering from accidental damage  for it to be covered, meaning the accidental damage 
definition isnt relevant if the pipe is accepted to be an underground pipe.
However, in considering whether the damage had happened suddenly (as required by the 
accidental damage  definition, which Mr and Mrs J do have cover for) I concluded the pipe 
had likely been affected over a long period. That the pipe,  according  to Mr and Mrs Js 
contractors, had effectively reached the end of its natural life; that now it had failed it was 
likely other failures would occur and more and more repairs would be needed.
Mr and Mrs J have objected to what I said in this respect. This aspect is still important 
because Mr and Mrs J do have optional accidental damage cover, but also because the 
policy is subject to a general exclusion for wear and tear.
In considering the cause of the damage, I said provisionally:
UKI spoke to Mr and Mrs Js plumber about  the leak. And the plumber also emailed UKI. In 
the call notes recorded by UKI the plumber  seems reluctant or unable to say what  might  
have caused the damage  to this pipe.  He does indicate that whilst repairing the first leak a 
second leak, along the same section of pipe, occurred. But I am aware that Mr and Mrs J say 
it wasnt a different leak, rather that the first repair  had failed.
When the plumber  emailed UKI he said:
Our professional opinion  is that there  is no way to know that the lead mains is at the end of 
its current life as in our local area.there are expected to still be 25% of all homes  fed from 
a lead water  mains.
He also said:
After our original visit and a repair made  to the water mains.  An additional leak appeared on 
the mains which  we have  also attended too.
The call notes also indicate  that once one leak has occurred on a lead pipe,  more  are sure to 
follow. The plumber notes  that generally starting  repairs isnt cost effective in the long run 
and it makes better sense  to replace a lead pipe that has started  leaking.
Im aware that lead pipes can last for 100 years. But also that it is generally  well known that 
towards the end of their life they can start to leak. That is because  chemicals  in the water  
react with the lead in the pipes and the pipes corrode from the inside. Mr and Mrs Js 
property was built in the 1930s, so its likely the pipe was installed then. That puts it at circa 
90 years  old.
Ref: DRN45252074I see that UKI didnt  have  any in-house technical advice on this claim. But, given what  Ive 
set out here  information that Im satisfied UKI had to hand  and/or was likely aware of 
I dont think it was necessary for it to do so. Firstly  Mr and Mrs J werent aware  of any event 
that had occurred that had likely  caused  the pipe to fail, such as something impacting the 
pipe. As the pipe was below Mr and Mrs Js floor UKI could reasonably  conclude  that nothing  
like that had occurred  (or theyd have known about  it). That left UKI to consider what  the 
plumber had said and the other available information. Having done  so UKI concluded that the 
pipe had likely failed  as it was reaching the end if its natural life and I dont think,  given 
everything Ive set out here, that was an unreasonable  conclusion. The detail above  also 
shows that the pipe was likely corroding (being damaged) for a long time.  Admittedly,  there 
came a point when that corrosion allowed sufficient water to escape which suddenly 
highlighted to Mr and Mrs J that there  was damage. But the damage itself (to the pipe, not 
that caused by the water  leak) wasnt sudden.
Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs J, this means that I dont  intend to uphold  their complaint by 
making UKI settle  their claim for the replaced pipe. I think  that whilst its decline in this respect 
wasnt executed  very well (see below),  the outcome was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs J said the pipe did not burst in a second place. Whilst I note what they believe in 
this respect that doesnt change what Im satisfied  UKI was told by their contractor.
Mr and Mrs J say the comment from the contractor about replacing the pipe is irrelevant 
because they didnt have the pipe replaced because  it would likely continue  needing  repair. 
They replaced it after an attempt  at repair had failed and on the advice  of the water authority 
as well as two plumbers  who all said that a repair couldnt be guaranteed and that the only 
satisfactory repair was to replace it. I understand that. But that means its relevant to 
consider why the expert plumbers recommended replacement. Mr and Mrs Js plumber said 
to UKI that an additional leak occurred  not that the repair  it had attempted  had failed 
(although it may well have  done). But also that they dont generally  recommend repair  
because once the pipe has failed once  it will continue to fail. The plumber didnt say to UKI 
the damaged part of the pipe couldnt be repaired because of its position. So whilst this 
information might well have been put forward to Mr and Mrs J during the course of the 
incident, it wasnt something Id say UKI should reasonably have taken into account when 
making its decision.
Mr and Mrs J feel UKI failed to investigate the cause of the damage to the pipe properly. 
Whilst they acknowledge there was no impact  to the pipe they surmise that as it failed  at a 
bend and there had been a period of dry, hot weather, the pipe may have been subject to 
movement. They think its likely as there was a lot of debris  around  the pipe.
I appreciate that UKI didnt ask Mr and Mrs J if theyd been aware of anything  occurring  that 
might have damaged  the pipe. But UKI didnt have to. Nor did it need, in my view,  to carry 
out tests on the pipe.  The evidence UKI gathered and the information Im satisfied it was 
likely aware  of (as explained provisionally,  copied  above) sufficiently evidences, in my view,  
that a finding that the pipe was most  likely damaged over time,  not suddenly,  but rather  as a 
result of wear and tear, was fair and reasonable. There may well be other possible causes of 
damage, such as movement. But UKI isnt bound  to rule out all possibilities, to be sure 
beyond doubt  what the cause was. If it satisfies that the accidental  definition hasnt been met 
and/or that its reasonable to rely on the policy exclusion, the onus falls back to Mr and Mrs J 
to show that it was wrong, that what UKI says isnt most likely the case, not just that it might  
not be.
Ref: DRN45252075Mr and Mrs J said that there was no evidence the pipe had been corroding for a long time  
that if this were the case no pipe would ever be covered. The family,  they say, would also 
likely have been suffering from illnesses related to lead poisoning,  which they werent.  And 
they also think my findings were  flawed because they suggest that water  may have been 
leaking before  the point  of the claim. They say there is no evidence  of this.
UKI accepted the water  damage claim and Im not suggesting it shouldnt  have done. But it 
isnt uncommon  for leaking concealed  pipes to let small  amounts of water out without being 
noticed  or indeed leaving  any trace, until such time as a more  catastrophic  failure occurs 
causing sufficient  water to be released  to both be noticed and cause damage.  But even if 
there was no water  getting out until the point the pipe completely failed, that doesnt  mean  
the pipe wasnt  being damaged overtime, getting weaker and weaker until the weakest part 
of the pipe was no longer able to contain  the water.
I realise that failing lead pipes can cause lead poisoning. But I dont think  that an absence  of 
noticed lead-related illnesses should  automatically  mean that the pipe was unlikely to have 
been suffering  from wear  and tear. I think there  are a lot of variables that might  affect  
whether people become sick  and whilst I know Mr and Mrs J have made  these comments  
having received  some  advice, I havent seen  any expert view which shows the pipe was 
unlikely to have  been corroding.  If Mr and Mrs J receive such advice they should send it to 
UKI to consider. It can then review its claim decision in light of that new evidence.
At this time, based on what Im satisfied  UKI was told and it likely knew, I think  its claims 
decision was fairly  and reasonably made.  Im not persuaded to make it change that.
claim handling
I said provisionally that I felt UKIs position  on the claim  kept evolving which frustrated 
Mr and Mrs J:
Whilst its often the case that an insurer will first consider  if any damage has happened that 
is covered by the policy, this shouldnt blinker it to other policy terms that might have 
relevance. An insurer wont want to act as though it is accepting a claim, and reliance on 
exclusions might  muddy  the water  in that respect. But an insurer  can comment whilst 
reserving rights and make  it clear it isnt accepting any liability by commenting on policy  
terms. It is the insurance expert and a policyholder shouldnt feel they have to chase every  
possibility down only to be knocked  back again  and again. I think that here UKI could  
reasonably have given a more holistic answer  at an early  stage  of the claim. Mr and Mrs J 
would still have been disappointed by the claim outcome but their frustration  and continued 
efforts to have the claim accepted would have been avoided.  Im prepared  to say UKI should 
pay them  £75 compensation to make  up for this.
UKI said it didnt think it handled things badly;  in its view it had responded appropriately and 
in a timely manner. That may be but misses the point  I made   that it should  have presented  
a holistic response  at the outset.
Mr and Mrs J said £75 compensation is quite insulting  because  UKI was intent from the 
outset on declining  this claim and theyve had to perform  the role of experts to try and get it 
to settle the matter. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs J have  gone to a lot of effort here.  But the 
fact remains that Im satisfied that UKIs decision  was fair and reasonable. I know
Mr and Mrs J dont agree with that and that the decline  is upsetting  for them. But I have to 
Ref: DRN45252076divorce that upset  from that which I think UKIs  failure to give a holistic answer  at the outset  
caused. Im satisfied that £75 is fair and reasonable in this respect.
Mr and Mrs J remained unhappy with my findings,  as did UKI.
In summary  Mr and Mrs J said:
Their previous response  and arguments still applied. 
My focus should be on the wording of the underground pipes cover,  and whether this 
applied, but I hadnt asked or answered  relevant  questions in this respect.
On analysis, their broken pipe is covered by the underground services section. 
It is for UKI to show it can reasonably  rely on the wear and tear exclusion to defeat its 
liability for the claim. 
I was wrong to have  said (and here I am quoting from Mr and Mrs Js response) If UKI 
(sic) is satisfied that..it is reasonable to rely on the policy exclusion, the onus  falls back 
to Mr and Mrs J to show  that it is wrong. 
The test isnt about what UKI thinks is reasonable,  but what it can show  on balance  
occurred.
On balance UKI hadnt shown the pipe failed due to wear and tear.
I had unfairly refused  to give weight to their evidence  all of which theyd  shared  with UKI, 
meaning it should have taken that into account when making  its decision.
I had made contradictory findings  saying at one point the pipe, according to 
Mr and Mrs Js contractors had effectively reached the end of its natural life, but also that 
the contractors told UKI that there is no way to know that the lead mains is at the end of 
its current life.
Photos and video  show  there was only one site of failure.
There cant have been a second leak elsewhere  along the pipe as the rest is all 
underground, and thered  been  no need  to dig up the dining room  and kitchen floors,  or 
the house foundations  to locate it.
The plumber has provided a further  statement about the work  carried out at the property, 
explaining there wasnt a second  leak.
Ive taken the plumbers reference to the pipe  likely now continuing to fail  out of 
context.
The damaged  part of the pipe was available for UKI to inspect if it had wished to.
I had wrongly inferred that the water damage  claim had included  long-standing water 
damage. This wasnt true.
UKI hasnt sought to argue the pipe was leaking over a prolonged period,  and I shouldnt  
create any arguments to support either side.
By discounting  their argument regarding  lead poisoning, on the basis Ive seen no expert 
evidence in this respect, Im expecting them to provide a higher  standard of proof than 
Ive asked for from UKI, which isnt fair.
My finding that UKI didnt have to establish  the cause of the damage to the pipe or carry 
out tests on it was unlawful and grossly  unfair.
My findings were based  on assumptions  and ideas about what  might have happened,  
and Id ignored photos and other  evidence which  showed  what did happen.
My findings demonstrate an intent to find in favour of UKI and to do so, as shown by their 
response, Id erred in law, made  irrelevant  considerations, placed weight on assumptions, 
and introduced my own evidence  as opposed  to limiting my comments  to the arguments 
and evidence put forward by the parties.
Ref: DRN45252077For its part UKI said its claim handling wasnt poor. It provided some  call recordings of 
conversations it had with Mrs J. It said the first call is clear and manages Mrs Js 
expectations regarding  what  assistance UKI can offer. Regarding the second call, which 
discusses cover for accidental damage, UKI said it explains that the pipe is worn  out so not 
covered and an agreement is made for a manager  to call Mrs J back.  UKI said the manager 
called back as promised  and the notes  from his call are on the file. UKI continued to object to 
my award of £75 compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered Mr and Mrs Js previous  arguments and responses when issuing my provisional 
and further provisional decisions. Ive copied my further provisional  findings above, which 
include relevant  parts from my provisional  findings. The findings copied above form part of 
my findings  of this my final decision.
We are an informal  dispute resolution service  which means we dont have to analyse every  
aspect of the cover and claim in question at the heart of the complaint. I explained previously 
why I dont need to reach a conclusion on the underground services cover. My view on that 
hasnt changed.
It is for UKI to show that it can reasonably rely on an exclusion to defeat a claim. Whilst 
I note Mr and Mrs Js concern that my further  provisional findings on this were wrong, I also 
note theyve misquoted me. I didnt say it was only necessary  for UKI to be satisfied that it 
could reasonably rely on the exclusion. What I said was:
If it satisfies that..its reasonable to rely on the policy  exclusion,  the onus falls back  to 
Mr and Mrs J.
I assess complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. If an insurer  shows  that, for example,  its 
most likely (i.e. on balance)  that damage occurred as a result of something which  is 
excluded, then I would say its reasonable for it to rely on the related  exclusion to defeat the 
claim.
I acknowledged in my previous decisions what Mr and Mrs J told UKI during the claim. For 
the most  part they were reporting what they said they were  told by third-parties. I didnt  
ignore this evidence,  but I didnt think it was reasonable to say UKI should  have  placed  
greater weight on what Mr and Mrs J told it others had said,  than on the evidence it had 
obtained directly  from the plumbers  that had carried out work. Based on the balance  of all the 
evidence UKI had received, I felt its decision to decline  the claim had been fair.
I havent made contradictory findings.  At one point I noted that the plumber, in one piece of 
correspondence, had said that there was no way to know if the pipe was at the end if its life 
because many properties in the area still have  lead pipes.  But, having considered another  
comment made by the plumber  that now the pipe had failed once it would keep failing, 
constantly requiring  further repair  I summarised  that the plumber had said the pipe had 
effectively reached the end of its natural life. I remain of the view that when an item loses  its 
ability to function  without being  constantly  repaired, and, in the professional  view of an 
expert, really  requires replacing, that its fair to say it has effectively reached the end of its 
natural life. 
Ref: DRN45252078The photos  show that there  was initially one leak. I didnt suggest there were multiple failures 
of the pipe initially. But the plumber  did say that once this type of pipe fails, it is likely further 
leaks will occur. I appreciate that the rest of the floor wasnt  dug up but Im not persuaded 
that likely  means the second leak must  have  resulted from the first repair  failing. Even on 
photos submitted  by Mr and Mrs J there is lead pipe visible (and accessible)  between  the 
area of replaced  pipe and the edge of the nearest  floorboard.  
Furthermore, Ive seen the new comments provider by the plumber about the further  repair 
completed. The plumber says Mr and Mrs J told him, after the first repair,  that the pipe had 
burst again  at the joint (where the new section of pipe meets the old one). He says he 
attended and repaired the problem by cutting the lead back a bit further. So it isnt clear to 
me if the further  burst was from a failed connection  completed as part of the initial repair, or 
if there was a failure of the remaining  lead piping.  The plumber does go on to say, in his 
recent email  that we have not attended  at any point to repair a second  separate  leak in the 
pipe. But Im mindful that in previous correspondence with UKI the plumber  told it he 
attended to resolve  an additional leak. So Im still not persuaded that there wasnt  a second 
leak from the lead pipe, that rather its most likely that the repair failed.   
Im not persuaded Ive taken the plumbers comments out of context. Or that UKI should 
reasonably have viewed them as not being  relevant to the likely cause of failure of the pipe.
My view remains that UKI didnt have  to inspect the pipe. I might have criticised  it for not 
doing so if its refusal  to cover the cost of replacing  the pipe seemed to have been unfair or 
unreasonable in light of other evidence available to it. But that isnt the case here.
I didnt infer the damage claim involved long-standing water  damage. What I said was:
.Im not suggesting  [UKI] shouldnt  have [accepted the water damage  claim]. But it isnt 
uncommon for leaking concealed  pipes  to let small amounts of water  out without being  
noticed  or indeed leaving  any trace, until such time as a more  catastrophic  failure occurs 
causing sufficient  water to be released  to both be noticed and cause damage.
I havent created  an argument for UKI. What Ive done is looked  at the facts and arguments 
and determined whether or not I think UKIs decision was fairly  and reasonably made.
I am not placing any unfair burden  on Mr and Mrs J in respect of evidence.  Mr and Mr J have 
put forward a hypothesis.  Its a theory,  and Im not suggesting  it isnt a possibility. But for 
their argument to succeed, they have to persuade  me its most likely. Their  view as 
lay-persons in this respect,  even given what they say theyve been told by experts, simply 
isnt persuasive enough  evidence.
Ive explained  why I think the extent  of UKIs actions and the decisions it came to were  fair 
and reasonable.  I realise that Mr and Mrs J disagree  with those findings and that they feel 
theyre based on assumptions  and ideas. But I can assure Mr and Mrs J that I have 
considered everything  and Im satisfied that the findings Ive made  are fair and reasonable 
and have been made in-line with the requirements of my role. 
Turning to UKIs response, Ive considered the evidence provided, but it doesnt change  my 
view. Not least because  the calls referred  to arent  the only calls/discussions between UKI 
and Mrs J. I also note that whilst  a managers call back was promised and did occur,  it was 
promised for that morning  and didnt occur until the very end of the day and only after three  
Ref: DRN45252079chaser calls from Mrs J in which she explained  that the contact was urgently required.  
I remain satisfied that UKI should  pay Mr and Mrs J £75 compensation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  U K Insurance  Limited to pay Mr and Mrs J £75 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4525207