K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan Mr R holds with Blemain Finance Limited.  The 
security is the premises from which he runs his business. Hes unhappy with how Blemain 
treated him when  he was in long-term financial difficulties. Here, Mr R is represented by his 
brother, whom Ill refer to as Mr D.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding the numbers  involved. No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont  mention  
something, it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr R when my decision is 
published.
Mr R took the loan out in 2003  and has struggled financially for most of the time he has had 
it. In 2012 he brought a detailed complaint through his MP about  how Blemain had managed  
the loan and treated him. Blemain rejected  most of the complaint but agreed to refund  
around £3,800-worth of fees, charges and interest that had been  levied on the account up to 
that time,  as a gesture  of goodwill. 
Unfortunately, Mr Rs financial  difficulties  havent  gone away, and hes continued  to struggle 
since 2012. This has prompted  Blemain to commence litigation many times, only to place a 
halt to proceedings  when  Mr R made a lump sum payment. In 2017,  Blemain suspended all 
future interest on the debt. In 2018, Mr R complained to us about how hed been treated. 
We began  by explaining to Mr R that we would only be able to consider events since 
April 2007, when the business  came  under our jurisdiction for consumer credit activity.  The 
adjudicator looking  at the case  at that stage  thought  Blemain should review the charges it 
had applied  over the years  and consider refunding  those that had been applied unfairly. 
When that adjudicator  left the service in the summer  of 2019, it was passed to a different 
investigator who took a different view. 
She explained that in reality, we would  only be able to consider  events  since  
September 2012. Thats because everything before that had been addressed  by Blemain in 
the response to Mr Rs first complaint. Blemain  had given  Mr R the option of referring  that 
complaint to us at the time, but he needed to have done so within six months;  that is, no later 
than March 2013. 
Focussing on what had happened  since, broadly speaking, the investigator wasnt 
persuaded that Blemain had treated Mr R unfairly. Mr D, on his brothers behalf,  has asked 
that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN44502912my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Having reviewed the transaction history since September 2012  when  Blemain made the 
substantial refund of fees, charges and interest, I dont think it needs to go any further than 
that. Im satisfied the remaining  fees and charges were reasonable in the circumstances. 
I say this because  they were charged  in accordance with the terms and conditions  of the 
loan and were  based  on the account conduct. The account has been  in arrears for much of 
the time its been  in force, and legal action has taken place.
The figures set out on a loan agreement at the outset  (weve not had sight  of Mr Rs specific 
agreement as neither  party has retained a copy) are based on a person paying  all of the 
contractual monthly repayments in full and on time and no fees or charges being added. 
Clearly that hasnt happened  here as Mr R was in arrears for a long time (albeit  the arrears 
were cleared  every so often, but would immediately build back  up). The contract Mr R 
entered into required the contractual monthly payment to be made in the month  it was due. 
But for much of the term Mr R didnt  pay on time but and then paid a lump sum to catch  up 
some of the missed payments.
As interest  is constantly  being charged  this means  its not as simple as making  up a missed 
payment, theres  also the extra interest  incurred  for every day that payment is overdue. This 
interest can add up significantly as Mr R has found.  Thats not to say Blemain was charging 
interest on interest, its just a simple fact that for each delayed  payment extra  interest will be 
charged on the unpaid capital for every day it is late. Then  there are the fees for the arrears 
management and charges  for legal action  and cancelled evictions added onto the debt, and 
then interest on those fees.
We dont provide an auditing service  or carry out a forensic analysis of loan records. But Ive 
looked at the transaction history and theres  nothing on there  that appears unusual  or 
incorrect. Of course, its open to Mr R to instruct an independent and suitably-qualified  
professional to audit  his account. But that would  have  to be at his expense   though if errors 
were found  to his financial  detriment, he could  make a fresh complaint about them and his 
costs in discovering them could be taken into account in putting matters  right.  But as things 
stand, Im not persuaded that Blemain has mis-managed his account.
Its a common misconception  that lenders  are required to provide forbearance. What they 
are required  to do is consider each  set of individual circumstances fairly to decide if 
forbearance should be provided; the two things arent  the same. Wed expect a lender to 
consider offering help to consumers going  through a temporary problem, especially in 
Ref: DRN44502913situations where it can be seen their situation  is likely to improve. The difficulty here is that 
Mr Rs difficulty  in getting on top of his arrears  has been anything but temporary.
The pressure to maintain his payments against  a backdrop of sustained financial hardship 
must have  been  immense for Mr R, and Im not unsympathetic towards  him in that regard. 
But my impartiality means  I must  also have  regard for Blemains point of view.  Overall, its 
shown Mr R a lot of patience over a long time.  Its not required to be patient  indefinitely. 
Mr D has suggested that instead of backing off from litigation each  time Mr R made a lump  
sum, hed have been better off if it had continued to enforce  its security. Even if it resulted in 
Mr R being made bankrupt, his problems would  now be over. Thats  a point of view, and I 
have to say, not one that I often see put forward to support an argument of unfair treatment 
towards someone in hardship. But I think I understand  Mr Ds logic; if Mr R had to face the 
prospect of eviction from his business premises, better that it had been sooner than later. 
Its not always easy for lenders to judge  when and when not to enforce  security. Either  way, 
there is the potential for criticism, and they have  to make a commercial  judgement  each 
time, based on the circumstances  at the time.  Generally, speaking, we dont second-guess 
or otherwise interfere  with a lenders commercial  judgement, and Im not sure it would be 
right for me to do that here. 
With hindsight, its possible to question  whether  Blemain was right to fall back from 
enforcement each time Mr R paid a lump sum. But it could equally be argued that Mr R 
might have called a halt to the cycle himself by selling the security and repaying the loan if 
he considered  his situation unsustainable and unfixable. I think both parties  reluctance  to 
force the issue might  have stemmed from the fact that Mr R needed the premises  for his 
livelihood, and thats perfectly understandable,  and not unreasonable  on eithers part. 
Of course,  the situation is still ongoing,  and Mr R is looking to reach some form of agreement 
with Blemain. Hes offered a full and final settlement of £5,000, which  Blemain hasnt 
accepted. It would be wrong  of me to say it should  accept that offer,  or some other 
alternative proposal. But I stress that both parties  do need to engage,  without recrimination 
over what  has gone before, and try to negotiate  an arrangement that both can live with. But 
unfortunately thats not something  we can intercede in as it doesnt fall within our remit. 
Mr R needs to contact  Blemain to discuss his options, either  directly,  or through Mr D, or 
maybe with the help of someone  qualified  to give him free debt advice - such as Shelter, 
StepChange or Citizens Advice. If he was unhappy  with the outcome of those discussions 
with Blemain then that too could be a new complaint he could  refer to us at the time (subject 
to our rules, of course). But we cant get involved unless Blemain has had a chance to 
discuss the options with Mr R (or his chosen intermediary), and then had the opportunity to 
deal with a complaint from Mr R about  those discussions.
Id encourage  Mr R to contact Blemain (either directly, or via an intermediary as Ive 
explained above) and have an open  and honest  conversation about his current  
circumstances and his worries about  both now and the future. Theyll need to work  together  
and that means  Mr R will need to be frank about  his situation. And Blemain will need to listen 
to what he has to say and, fairly and sympathetically, see if theres a way to work with him to 
agree a way forward.  
Ref: DRN44502914my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R, or Mr D on 
his behalf, to accept or reject my decision before  10 January 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4450291