K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds  (UKI)  service  when he asked it to attend  
to his motorhome  under  the terms of his vehicle rescue policy.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
background
Mr P has a motorhome which is covered by his rescue policy.  Mr P stores the vehicle in a 
secure off-road compound when hes not using  it. And he declares  it as off road to DVLA 
(known as SORN) so he doesn't have to pay the road fund licence (tax).
While the vehicle was in storage Mr P called UKI because its battery was flat. A flat battery is 
an insured event under the policy terms, but UKI refused to attend. It said the vehicle wasn't  
covered because it wasn't taxed. Mr P complained. UKI thought  it had dealt with Mr P fairly 
but paid him £10 to cover  phone-call costs. 
Mr P brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didn't think UKI had dealt with Mr P fairly; 
so she said it should pay him £50 compensation.
UKI didn't agree so the complaint's  been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint and in UKIs response  to it both parties have made  some  detailed 
points. Ive considered  everything theyve said carefully. But in this decision  I will focus on 
what I see as the key outstanding issues.
Initially UKI gave Mr P various different reasons  for not answering his request for help. But, 
in the complaints process it agreed that some  of those weren't relevant to his situation. 
However, it said it had made  the right decision not to attend to Mr Ps vehicle. It said the 
policy specifically excludes  it attending  a vehicle which  doesn't have tax or MOT. It also 
referred to the reasonable care section of the policy.  That says Mr P must comply  with all 
laws and codes and keep  his vehicle safe and fit to drive. So I've thought about whether it 
was fair and reasonable for UKI to rely on those  policy terms.
I think its worth noting that at the time of Mr Ps call to UKI his vehicle did have an MOT. 
And, apart from a flat battery, it was fit to drive mechanically. So any question  about what the 
policy says about  an MOT  isn't relevant here.
UKI argued  that the policy  didnt cover  Mr Ps vehicle because  - as it wasnt taxed - it didn't 
comply with the laws and so wasnt fit to drive. But I don't agree. Mr Ps car did comply  with 
the law as hed declared it SORN. It would only need to be taxed once he put it back on the 
road. UKI also implied that his car was unfit or unsafe to drive  because it wasn't taxed. But I 
don't agree. The policy doesnt define what either unfit or unsafe  mean. But in the context 
of a motor vehicle I think the everyday  understanding is that they refer to whether or not the 
vehicle was mechanically sound. That the vehicle was untaxed didnt make his vehicle  
unsafe or unfit to drive as taxing it wouldnt affect how it operates mechanically. So I dont 
Ref: DRN41706482think it was reasonable  for UKI to refuse  to attend Mr Ps car on the grounds that it didnt 
comply with the law, or was unfit or unsafe.  
Also I dont think the policy does specifically  exclude UKI attending where  a vehicle isnt 
currently taxed. What  the policy actually says is that it wont  cover a breakdown:
if the vehicle doesnt meet the legal requirements and driving laws that apply  for 
example, it may [emphasis added] need to be taxed and have a valid MOT  
certificate. 
But in the specific  circumstances of this case Mr Ps vehicle was off-road and declared as 
such; so it didnt need to be taxed in order to meet the legal  requirements  and driving  laws 
applying to it. And the policy  doesnt say that in order to be covered a vehicle must be taxed; 
it says it may need to be. So the policy implies  that there are occasions  where  it will cover  
a vehicle that isnt currently taxed. And I think Mr Ps situation was one such  occasion. If 
thats not the case and the policy intention is to only ever cover  vehicles that can be legally 
driven on the highways then I dont think its clear  on that point. And, as Mr P wasnt involved 
in drafting the policy, and its ambiguous, Id have to interpret it in Mr Ps favour. So I dont 
think it was fair that UKI has relied on the policy terms its referred to in order to refuse to 
attend when Mr P called.  And Im aware that this was a source of distress and 
inconvenience for him. So I think it should pay him £50 compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited  to pay 
Mr P £50 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience. It should pay the 
compensation within 28 days of us telling  it that Mr P has accepted my final decision. If it 
pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman  
1 If UKI pays  interest  and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN4170648