K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that MBNA Limited wont reimburse him for the costs  that hes claimed in 
connection with his purchase of a flywheel for his car. 
background
Mr T used  his MBNA credit card in July 2018  to pay £249.99 for a replacement flywheel and 
clutch kit for his car. He says that the flywheel was advertised as being  compatible with his 
car but that he received  a single mass flywheel rather than the dual mass flywheel that had 
been on his car. And he said that the single mass flywheel  didnt  work  correctly. He 
contacted MBNA about the payment and it made a chargeback  for the £249.99 which was 
credited back to his account. But Mr T also made  a claim to MBNA  under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  for the consequential losses  that he said hed incurred.
It said that he hadnt provided a proof  of purchase for the flywheel and clutch  kit and without 
that it was unable to establish that thered been a misrepresentation  by the supplier. Mr T 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He didnt  think  that 
there was sufficient evidence to conclude that the single  mass flywheel wasnt compatible 
with Mr Ts car and he didnt feel that an incorrect part was provided  to him. So he didnt 
think that MBNA was responsible for any of the consequential  losses  that Mr T had incurred.
Mr T has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr T has referred  to the unrelated  injury 
that hes suffered  and I sympathise with him for that.
He paid £249.99 for a replacement flywheel and clutch kit for his car in July 2018 and hes 
provided evidence  to show that it was advertised as being compatible  with his car. But he 
says that he received a single mass flywheel rather than the dual mass flywheel that had 
been on his car. He paid a mechanic £360  for the single mass flywheel to be fitted but says 
that it didnt work correctly. He paid another mechanic £1,115 to strip down the assembly 
and supply and fit a dual mass flywheel and clutch kit. He says that he also paid £21.59  to 
return the single mass  flywheel to the supplier  and £300 to hire a car. 
He contacted MBNA about the payment  to the supplier and it made a chargeback for the 
£249.99 which was credited back to his account.  But he then made a claim to MBNA under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 for the consequential losses that he said hed 
incurred  and he then complained to this service.  On his complaint form he said that he was 
claiming a total of £2,209.99 which included the £249.99 that hed paid for the flywheel, £360 
for the payment to the first mechanic and £1,600 for the payment to the second mechanic 
(but the payment  to the second  mechanic  was £1,115  not £1,600).
Ref: DRN43127932In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr Ts complaint about MBNA, I 
must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
of the flywheel and that MBNAs response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or 
reasonable. Im not determining the outcome  of Mr Ts claim under section  75 as only a court 
would be able to do that.
Mr T bought  the flywheel  from an online  marketplace.  The advert for the part says that its a 
new flywheel and complete  clutch kit with bolts for Mr Ts model of car. The advert doesnt 
say that it was a dual mass flywheel.
Its clear that Mr T had issues with the single mass flywheel after hed paid for it to be fitted 
to his car and that he then paid a mechanic  to strip down the assembly and supply and fit a 
dual mass  flywheel and clutch  kit which solved those issues.  But MBNA would only be liable 
for the consequential  losses that hes claimed  if there was a breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the single mass flywheel.
The investigations that have been made  by MBNA and the supplier show that Mr Ts model  
of car can run with either a single  mass  flywheel or a dual mass flywheel. And the research 
that Ive done  has confirmed  that. A single mass  flywheel is significantly less expensive  than 
a dual mass flywheel  and its performance  isnt as good. I consider  that the price paid by 
Mr T is consistent  with the price  of a single mass flywheel and that a dual mass flywheel 
wouldve been more  expensive.
I consider that Mr T received the flywheel that hed ordered which  was compatible with his 
model of car. Hes received a refund of the £249.99 that he paid to the supplier as a 
chargeback which has been credited to his account. But Im not persuaded that theres  been  
a breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to require MBNA  to reimburse Mr T for the consequential  losses that hes 
claimed - or to take any other action in response  to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4312793