K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say The Co-operative Bank  Plc, trading as Britannia (TCB) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs P bought the policy  in 2001 sometime after taking out a mortgage. They applied 
for the PPI policy through the post.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr P for unemployment only  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £451 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage balance  in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £13.55 a month although it was free for the 
first 12 months. 
At the time,  Mr P was employed as a software engineer. He has told us he was entitled to 
sick pay, death in service  benefit and redundancy pay through his employer. He also said he 
had accident and sickness cover with an alternative provider. Mr P has said he was in good 
health at the time of the sale. 
Although the mortgage was jointly held, Mrs P was not covered by the policy.  
TCB has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2003. 
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ps representative  says:
TCB failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs P 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Ps representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means TCB should have told 
Mr and Mrs P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means TCB should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs P and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
Ref: DRN46943872The information Mr and Mrs P received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs P disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ps. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
TCB, selling  insurance  at this time:
Ref: DRN46943873The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like TCB at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Ps case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so TCB 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If TCB gave  advice,  whether it advised Mr and Mrs P with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether TCB gave Mr and Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs P, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs P 
Ref: DRN46943874suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs P 
and TCB, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs P know they had a choice?
TCB had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
TCB has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage application  form which was completed 
in October 2001.  I can see they were offered PPI at this time, but they declined  cover and 
signed a declaration confirming they did not require PPI. 
Their mortgage  then began in November  2001  without PPI cover in place. 
In December 2001, Mr P completed a postal application form for PPI, requesting cover for 
himself only. He chose unemployment cover  only (when  he could alternatively have 
requested cover for accident  sickness only, or full accident, sickness  and unemployment  
cover). He also selected a deferral period of 60 days,  and a benefit period of 12 month (there 
were other options available  for these selections too). So, Mr P seems to have made  a 
series of choices independently  and exercised  a degree of consideration. The PPI 
application form was also completed, after their mortgage had already started. 
The PPI started after TCB processed  the application form, although TCB backdated  cover  to 
the start of their mortgage, which was November  2001. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs P knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did TCB provide advice?
TCB says it didnt provide  advice during  this sale. Mr and Mrs P havent said if they agree. 
Looking at what happened when TCB sold Mr and Mrs P the PPI, Im not persuaded that it 
provided advice.  I say this because I havent  seen any evidence that TCB sought details of 
Mr and Mrs Ps wider  circumstances  to assess the suitability of the policy or that it gave  
them any form of tailored recommendation to take the PPI. 
This means  TCB didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs P. Instead, it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs P were  given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr P 
was unable to work  through unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr and Mrs P would  have taken out the policy  without 
any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might  be.
Ref: DRN46943875But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  TCB gave  sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs P agreed  to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think TCB gave  Mr and Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ps representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ps. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ps representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs P about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ps representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs P have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that TCB ought to have done either. 
what effect did TCBs  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs P? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs P suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that TCB didnt  do all it should have done  when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs P. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs P would have still taken out the policy, had TCB done  things properly.  
Mr and Mrs P say they would not have taken it out and believe I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs P had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr P being  unable to work. 
Ref: DRN46943876As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs P chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs P thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs P have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
The information about the aspects  of the policy, such as the cost, benefit,  limitations  and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs P knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear TCB told them the exact premium at the point 
they applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs P would  have been  
told the cost before the policy started  and they paid for the policy for a number of years, so if 
the costs were significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible 
they might  have raised that with TCB at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs P would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure before  they applied for the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  TCB made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs P would get back  in 
return in the event Mr P made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ps 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs P thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr P 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs P pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs P from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr P was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr P 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr P was in permanent 
employment. And they didnt take cover  for accident and sickness  (i.e. disability)  so he 
wouldnt be affected by any of the exclusions and limitations related  to disability cover.  So, I 
still think they had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
Ref: DRN46943877P might reasonably have expected. But as I explained above,  they did not take cover  for 
disability, so Mr P couldnt have  claim for disability in any event. 
Under this policy, to make a disability claim,  customers  needed to be totally unable  to do 
their normal  jobs. I dont  think this is likely  to be too different to what  Mr P would have  
expected to make a claim if hed bought disability cover. But again, as explained above, Mr 
P did not purchase  cover for disability, so he wouldnt have been able to make  a claim for 
disability in any event.  
I think TCB told Mr and Mrs P that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-month  
period. Mr P selected  a benefit period of 12 months  in the PPI application form, and this was 
also confirmed in the insurance schedule  they were sent after TCB received the application 
form. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs P would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr P was made redundant. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not that Mr and Mrs P would have taken out the policy in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ps representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs P would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Ps circumstances  as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr 
and Mrs P found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would  
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs P believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs P in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN46943878That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude TCB should pay Mr and Mrs P compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs P think TCB misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of TCBs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why TCB failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  TCB gave Mr and Mrs P, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2001  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ps representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find TCB negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs P and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that TCB had been  in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs P in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 June  2021.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4694387