K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Tesco  Underwriting Limited hasnt made a fair settlement for a 
claim made under their home  insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C made  a claim following an escape of water. This included  damage to their 
wooden flooring. 
Tesco agreed to cover the damage  to the flooring caused by the escape of water.  However, 
as the flooring was continuous  throughout the property, Mr and Mrs C wanted Tesco to 
cover the full cost of replacing this. Tesco refused and said it would only cover  50% of the 
cost of replacing the undamaged flooring. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs C brought  a 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought  Tescos decision  
had been reasonable.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept our investigators  findings, so the matter has been passed to me 
to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy says:
We will not pay for the cost of replacing  any undamaged items  solely  because they form 
part of a set, suite, group  or collection of items of a uniform design,  nature or colour.
Only part of the wooden flooring has been  damaged by the escape of water.
However, Mr and Mrs C have explained  the wooden  flooring is continuous throughout their 
property, without any thresholds.  
Although the policy doesnt allow for the cost of replacing undamaged items, I think  it would 
be fair for Tesco to recognise that by only replacing the damaged  part of the flooring, this 
would leave Mr and Mrs C with flooring that no longer matches.
Given how much of the flooring was damaged, I think the loss of match would be quite 
significant. Consequently, I find it would be fair for Tesco to pay a contribution towards the 
undamaged flooring. 
Tesco has offered to pay 50% towards  the cost of the undamaged flooring, which  I find to be 
reasonable and in line with the amount I would have  awarded.
Although I appreciate Mr and Mrs C would  like Tesco to pay the full cost of replacing the 
entire flooring, I dont  think that would be a fair outcome given that not all the flooring was 
damaged by the escape of water. 
Ref: DRN44275362Tesco had initially led Mr and Mrs C to think it would pay 100% of the cost of the undamaged 
flooring. It then advised them this was an error and it would only pay 50% of the cost of the 
undamaged flooring. Mr and Mrs C say this happened twice.  
Tesco apologised for giving Mr and Mrs C inconsistent information about  their claim. It 
offered to reduce the excess payable  by Mr and Mrs C by £200 to recognise this.
As the investigator  has pointed out, we wouldnt usually require an insurer to make  a 
payment it has led a consumer to believe  would  be paid, if this was done in error.  Having 
said that, I recognise Mr and Mrs C would have been disappointed to learn that Tesco  
wouldnt be covering  100%  of the undamaged flooring, as theyd been  told.  
I think £200 is a reasonable amount of compensation  for the loss of expectation that Mr and 
Mrs C experienced as a result of Tescos error. I therefore dont require Tesco  to do anything 
further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied Tesco  has made a fair 
offer. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 July 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4427536