K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out to protect a 
loan in 2008. Mr G says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make Mr G aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before 
adding it to his loan. I cant be certain what  was said at the time Mr G applied for his loan 
and PPI but Nationwide has provided a copy of the available paperwork. Mr Gs loan 
agreement had a separate section for PPI titled I wish to purchase optional credit  
insurance. Mr G signed this section in agreement to take the PPI in addition to signing  
separately to the loan itself. There was also a box within  the PPI section to take the policy 
that wasnt completed, but I think its clear from the document that the policy  was optional 
and Mr G signed in agreement with taking it.
In addition to signing for the PPI Nationwide has sent us evidence  to show  that a call took 
place when it received Mr Gs signed agreement  and it confirmed that Mr G wanted  to take 
the policy.
Having considered all of the available  evidence I think Nationwide  made  it clear  that Mr G 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose  to take it out  although I can understand 
why he may not remember  this.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr G got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means he had of making 
his repayments  which included sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
Mr Gs sick pay, and for longer. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Gs circumstances at the time 
it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so 
it would  have been useful for him if something  went wrong. So I dont think better  information  
about the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  Nationwide  didnt tell Mr G, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN46807302To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said - including  what he has said about  the policy not 
being suitable as he took the loan to consolidate other debt, and that he was pressured into 
taking the PPI. But I still think Mr G would have found the policy useful, and it would have  
given him peace  of mind that his loan repayments  would be covered if he found  himself 
unable to work. 
For me to uphold this complaint on the basis that Mr G was pressured into taking the policy I 
would need to see persuasive  evidence  that this is likely to be what happened,  which  I 
havent seen.  So these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr G any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr G any extra interest  
he paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr G the extra he paid each month on the loan because  the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mr G paid if the loan was paid off early.  Nationwide should also pay Mr G 8%* simple 
interest on the extra paid each month. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr G can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4680730