K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr S took out the PPI in November 2005 at the same time as he arranged  the credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr Ss representative has made  reference to a case study where the complaint  was upheld. 
But complaints are looked at on a case by case basis, using the available evidence.
Mr S says he had no idea that PPI had been added to the credit card account,  therefore it 
must have  been  added without his knowledge or consent. Looking  at the paperwork from the 
sale, I think there would  have been some  discussion about the policy  in particular BoS has 
provided a demands  and needs statement which indicates that the suitability of the policy 
was discussed.  The credit card application  form has a separate  section for PPI  and Mr S 
has ticked the box in that section, and then signed,  to request the policy. He could have left 
that section blank if he didnt want the policy.
The sale happened a long time ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ss recollection  of the 
sale has faded. And in fact Mr S has said that he cant  remember how the policy was sold to 
him. Ive thought  very carefully about  what Mr S has said,  but looking at the evidence, I think  
Mr S would have understood that the PPI was optional. It seems to me that he probably 
decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even  if he no longer remembers doing so.
BoS advised Mr S to buy the policy. Therefore in recommending the PPI to Mr S it needed to 
ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Ss circumstances at the time,  it 
was suitable for him.
Mr S would only have received statutory sick pay if he was unable to work due to accident or 
illness. Although  Mr S has said that he had private health insurance and a critical illness  
policy, these provide cover for different things than the PPI and so did not make  the PPI an 
unsuitable recommendation. Mr S has also said that he could have sold some assets 
(although he hasnt said what these were), but selling possessions would presumably have 
been a last resort.  Finally  Mr S has said that his wife would have covered his credit  card 
payments. But other people cant always  be relied upon as their circumstances can change. 
Besides, if Mr S wasnt  working, his wifes income  would have had to cover  other  household  
outgoings at what  would  have been  a difficult time.  So I think the policy  could have provided 
Mr S with a useful benefit at what would have been  a difficult time.
Ref: DRN49632852Its possible that BoS didnt provide as much  information as it should have about the policy,  
particularly about  the things it didnt  cover. But Mr S wasnt affected by any of those  things. 
As I think  that Mr S had an interest  in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think  that further 
information would have caused  him to change his mind.
This means  that I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt 
have to refund everything Mr S paid for it. But Bank of Scotland  plc has already offered to 
give Mr S back  some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more.
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mr S now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4963285