K820x#14Complaint
After Mr F took a loan from Provident Personal  Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma)  he 
wanted to repay it via cash repayments  following problems with his bank account. He says 
Satsuma wouldnt accept  cash  payments and it reported a default on his credit file.  
Background
In response to Mr Fs complaint Satsuma told him that after his first payment  was missed 
there were numerous telephone calls between Satsuma and Mr F where hed been given the 
correct advice  that being Mr F couldnt  make  repayments via cash  and he was given  
information about alternative payment methods. And, as no repayments  were made, 
Satsuma was correct  to default the account. Mr F was unhappy with this response so 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator reviewed  Mr Fs complaint and she thought that Satsuma hadnt made an 
error. She said wed asked Satsuma  for copies of the calls between it and Mr F. But, these 
werent provided. However,  based on the call notes  that we did have, she was satisfied  that 
Satsuma told Mr F that it wouldnt accept cash repayments and it had provided alternative 
repayment methods.  So she thought Mr F had been  treated fairly. 
Mr F didnt  agree with the adjudicators assessment. In response Mr Fs father said that Mr F 
had the funds to pay the loan but because of fraudulent activity on his bank account  he had 
no other means to pay  other than cash directly into Satsumas bank account. Which he 
says Satsuma wouldnt accept. He also says Mr F shouldnt have been prevented from 
repaying the debt and by not doing so this led to further interest being added. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to issue  a final 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
To begin with, Mr F has not complained about  whether  Satsuma was right or wrong to have 
granted him the loan.  Instead, the complaint  focuses  on whether Satsuma shouldve 
accepted a cash payment to settle  the account  and whether it did anything  wrong  when it 
defaulted the account.
Repaying the account
Mr Fs father  has told us that they have a log of all the calls between  Mr F and Satsuma, 
which can only be posted to us. Ive made reference  to certain  phone  calls below that 
Satsuma has provided me details  of. But Im satisfied that the call logs it has provided 
provides an overview  of what has happened between Mr F and Satsuma. 
Mr F took a loan of £640 to be repaid over three monthly repayments of £314.88 and the first 
payment was due on 17 July 2018. However,  this payment wasnt  made  and Mr F later 
informed Satsuma (on 20 July 2018) that hed been away  and there had been fraudulent 
Ref: DRN48489212activity on his bank  account  so he was waiting for a new bank card.  But the call notes 
suggest that Mr F agreed to make the payment via bank transfer. 
On 26 July 2018 I can see from the notes from another  call between Satsuma and Mr F that, 
again at this point Mr F told Satsuma  about the fraudulent activity  on his account and the 
notes indicate  that hed instruct  his bank to make a transfer. 
Over the course of the next six weeks there were at least three telephone calls between 
Mr F and Satsuma.  It seems Satsuma made enquiries about  why it hadnt received the 
repayment. Mr F said he was going  to open a new bank account but said hed arrange a 
bank transfer. But by the end of August he told Satsuma that he had the funds available to 
repay the loan but wanted to pay cash. 
Based on Satsumas call notes, there doesnt  appear to be any contact between the parties 
in September  but there were calls in October. Mr F says he needs  to pay via cash. At this 
point, the notes suggest that Satsuma provided  Mr F with its accounts  details (to enable a 
third party to pay) and it also seems that it confirmed a postal order could be made. 
There were then at least a couple of further  calls in November 2018. By this point,  it seems  
that Mr F was becoming frustrated because he was receiving text messages from Satsuma 
requesting payment and Mr F reiterates that he can only pay cash.  Following these calls
Mr F appears to have raised  his complaint. 
Based on the call notes  that Ive seen, these  do suggest Satsuma has been  consistent in 
saying that the loan repayments cant be made  via cash. But even if Satsuma had suggested  
at some point that payments could be made via cash deposit,   Im satisfied that generally  
its response has been consistent  that this isnt one of the payment methods it accepts. 
So while I appreciate Mr F wants to make his loan repayments via cash, Im satisfied that 
Satsuma has been clear in outlining that it wont accept this payment method. In any event, 
the matter of how loan repayments are made is a matter for Satsuma. It seems to have 
taken a decision that it doesnt  wish to accept  repayments by cash and this service doesnt  
have the power  to compel a business to amend its practices in order  to accept a cash 
payment.  
It also seems  from the telephone calls that Satsuma provided Mr F with alternative payments 
methods  such as a bank transfer  or postal order. In the circumstances, that was the 
correct thing to do given it was aware of some problems Mr F was having  with his bank.  And 
it seems, at least early  on, that Mr F was willing to use a different method. Albeit, it seems 
this couldve been  complicated by the fact he worked abroad. 
Ultimately, Mr F borrowed money  from Satsuma, and this has to be repaid. Although Mr F 
wants to pay with cash, Satsuma says this isnt possible, so another repayment method will 
need to be found. And it did provide alternative payments means  which I consider to be 
reasonable. It is now the responsibility of Mr F to ensure that any outstanding balance is 
repaid. 
Credit file
Satsuma says that as a result of it not receiving any scheduled repayments  it issued  the 
notice of default on 28 October 2018.  The default  date likely being  recorded with the credit 
reference agencies  would  have been  around 28 days later.  
Ref: DRN48489213I do understand that Mr F told Satsuma that he was having problems with his bank  account,  
but that doesnt mean that Satsuma was wrong to have defaulted the account. Mr Fs first 
payment was due in July 2018  and this wasnt made. Indeed,  it doesnt  appear that any 
repayments have  been made in the intervening  two years. 
The Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO)  is the body who has responsibility for making 
sure information reported to credit reference agencies is correct  released a document  called 
Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference  
Agencies.  This explains to lenders what and how information should be recorded  and 
how and when defaults should be applied. 
Satsuma is entitled  to default an account  when at a minimum the account is at least three 
months in arrears (principle 4 of the ICO guidance). So given the date the default notice was 
issued  that being more  than three months after the first repayment was due - I cant  say 
that an error has been made here. 
Equally, the relationship between the parties  needs  to have broken down. In this case, while 
I accept that Mr F and Satsuma were  in regular contact the fact is that alternative payment 
methods had been provided and no payments were made. So I dont think its unreasonable  
for Satsuma  to have  believed there  was a breakdown in the relationship.  
Indeed, the default notice wouldve also provided  Mr F with a final chance to make a 
payment in order to stop the account being  defaulted. Given this payment wasnt  made  and 
the account was sufficiently  in arrears, Im not able to conclude that an error  was made. 
Overall, as I think  Satsuma treated Mr F fairly,  Im not going  to be directing  it to do anything  
else. However, an outstanding balance appears  to remain, which will need to be repaid. So 
Mr F and Satsuma  should try and work  together to agree a mutually  agreeable way forward.   
Id remind Satsuma that it has an obligation  to treat Mr F fairly. 
I appreciate that this decision  will come as a disappointment to Mr F but I hope he 
understands that Ive thought about all the evidence provided. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint and I make no award against 
Provident Personal Credit Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2020.
Robert Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4848921