K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays).  Hes unhappy Barclays changed his 
account from a Current  Account  Plus to a Barclays Bank  Account  with Tech  Pack. He says 
this isnt something he requested or agreed  to and would  like the monthly  fees hes been  
paying for this refunded.
background
Mr S opened  a Current Account Plus with Barclays  in 2009.
On 24 February 2016 Barclays  wrote  to Mr S at an address Ill refer to as his G address. It 
said Mr Ss Current  Account Plus would soon become a Barclays  Bank Account with Tech 
Pack. To summarise it said:
Mr Ss Current Account Plus, for which he paid a monthly fee, was designed to meet 
his banking needs and help him look after things such as his mobile phone and 
gadgets. But having reviewed the cost of providing cover it had decided  to remove  
the Current Account  Plus on 13 May 2016 
Mr Ss Current Account Plus would become a Barclays Bank  Account with added 
Tech Pack and he would be charged a new monthly fee of £9.50 for the Tech Pack
the Barclays Bank Account had no monthly fee but so he could still receive a similar 
level of insurance  cover it would automatically  add the Tech Pack  to Mr Ss account  
for which hed pay a monthly fee
the Tech Pack was optional and asked Mr S to consider what he wanted to do 
the first Tech Pack  fee would be taken  from Mr Ss account  on 1 June 2016
Mr Ss options were:
1.to do nothing and accept the changes
2.to let Barclays know before 12 May 2016 if he didnt want  the Tech Pack. In 
which case Mr Ss account would still change to a Barclays Bank  Account but 
with no monthly account fee. His insurance benefits would also end. If Mr S 
wanted to remove  the Tech Pack after it had been added  on 13 May 2016,  as 
long as he told it before  23 May 2016,  he wouldnt pay the monthly fee
3.to consider alternative insurance packs
4.to decide he no longer  wanted his account
Barclays wrote to Mr S again  on 13 May 2016 at his G' address. It confirmed his Current  
Account Plus had become  a Barclays  Bank  Account and that the Tech Pack  had been  
added. Again it said the monthly  fee for this was £9.50 and would begin  to be taken  on 1 
June 2016. 
Following this the monthly Tech Pack  fee began to be taken from Mr Ss Barclays  Bank 
Account.
On 3 March 2018 Mr S complained to Barclays. He said hed never been informed of the 
changes made to his account and hadnt  agreed  to them.  He asked for the fees deducted 
from his account  since  the changes were  made  to be refunded.
Barclays sent its final response to Mr Ss complaint  on 23 April 2018.  In summary it said:
Ref: DRN43422272it had sent him two letters  regarding changes to is account and the Tech  Pack
its February 2016 letter confirmed that if Mr S was happy  for the change  to go ahead 
he didnt need  to do anything, however,  if he didnt want the product or wanted to talk 
about the Tech Pack he should contact it before  12 May 2016
it had explained  that Mr S could request the removal of the Tech  Pack after it was 
added on 13 May 2016, and as long as he told Barclays before 23 May 2016, he 
wouldnt be charged the monthly fee
as it gave Mr S prior notification of the changes to his account and what  to do if he 
didnt want the Tech Pack  it wouldnt  be offering any refund of the fees hed paid
the Tech Pack had been successfully removed from Mr Ss account as hed 
requested on 5 April 2018 
Unhappy with Barclays response Mr S referred his complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators  considered the matter and didnt think  Barclays had acted unfairly. 
He said Barclays letters to Mr S had made him aware of the upcoming changes to his 
account and what  action needed  to be taken to avoid the Tech Pack  being added  and a 
monthly fee charged. Our investigator  acknowledged Mr S had said he didnt receive 
Barclays letters however  he was satisfied they were sent.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator  so the matter was passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive first considered whether Barclays was entitled to change  Mr Ss account from a Current  
Account Plus to a Barclays Bank  Account. Im satisfied it was. 
Barclays is entitled to choose what products it wishes to offer its customers  as this is a 
legitimate exercise  of its commercial judgement. So Barclays was allowed to choose to stop 
offering its Current Account Plus and instead offer add on packs. Im unable to conclude  that 
Barclays did anything wrong by choosing to do this. 
Barclays did however  have a duty to inform its account holders of the changes  it was 
intending to make with reasonable notice  and a clear outline  the options  available to them.
Barclays has provided copies of letters it sent to Mr S in February and May 2016. These 
letters explained that Mr Ss account was being changed to a Barclays  Bank Account with a 
Tech Pack, as the Current Account  Plus was being discontinued. These letters  were  sent to 
the G address  Barclays held for Mr S at the time. 
Im aware Mr S has said the address Barclays sent its letters to was his fathers address and 
that hes never seen  the letters. But this doesnt  automatically mean  Mr S wasnt  sufficiently  
notified of the upcoming change to his account. 
Ref: DRN43422273Its not clear to me why Mr S provided Barclays with his fathers address for his 
correspondence. But having carefully considered the available evidence Im satisfied that 
from 6 October 2015 Mr S advised  Barclays that his address was indeed  the G address. 
Barclays updated its records accordingly and so its February and May 2016 letters were sent 
to the G address. Mr S didnt update Barclays with his new and current address until April 
2018.
From what  Ive seen Barclays took reasonable steps  to notify Mr S of the change to his 
account. And as most correctly addressed mail is delivered, I think  its likely that Barclays 
letters were delivered  correctly. Theres no requirement for the bank to have done more than 
it did in the circumstances. 
Overall I think  Barclays took reasonable steps to make  Mr S aware of the changes  that were  
due to take place on his account and gave him enough time to take action before the 
changes occurred.
Mr S never got in touch with Barclays following its letters so I think  it was fair for it to assume 
he was satisfied with the change and understood and accepted it. I cant reasonably say 
Barclays acted unfairly  in this respect.  
I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed but having carefully considered  everything  Im unable  
to uphold his complaint.  I havent seen anything which  persuades me that Barclays  has 
acted inappropriately  or failed to treat Mr S fairly  regarding his Barclays  Bank Account and 
the Tech Pack. Ive also reviewed Mr Ss statements and I cant see any of the fees have 
been applied  incorrectly  so I wont be asking Barclays  to refund any of these. 
I understand that Barclays has now removed the Tech  Pack from Mr Ss account.
I should say that I can appreciate Mr Ss frustration  with what has happened here. And I 
certainly dont doubt his sincerity in referring  the matter to us but as Ive said,  taking 
everything into account, I havent been  able to conclude that Barclays  has done anything  
wrong regarding  the issues  Mr S has raised.  So Im afraid  I wont be asking it to do anything  
further.
Ref: DRN43422274my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4342227