K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland plc, (trading  as Halifax), mis-sold  him a mortgage 
payment protection insurance, (MPPI),  policy.
background
Mr B took out the MPPI during a meeting in 1991,  at the same  time as taking out a 
mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Halifax had done  anything wrong. As Mr B disagreed  with 
this view the matter has come to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in making my decision.
Because of the time that has passed, neither  Mr B nor Halifax has been  able to send us 
copies of the paperwork signed  by Mr B or the terms and conditions  of the actual policy  that 
was in use at the time. Halifax has told us that the sale took place in branch  and that it 
recommended the MPPI to Mr B. But other  than that Ive very little detail on how the policy 
was sold. So Ive made my decision on the basis of what we know  generally about the sale 
of MPPI policies and on the information that I do have. I have also looked  at the terms and 
conditions of the oldest MPPI policy that Halifax has been able to show  us. This was in use 
some two years after the sale. I have  no reason  to conclude that the policy  sold to Mr B 
would have differed  substantially  from this. And Ive therefore based my decision on the 
likelihood that his MPPI was in a substantially similar form.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint because:
Mr B has said that he thought that the MPPI  was part of the mortgage  agreement and that 
he was told that it would have helped him if he had been made redundant. But 
understandably, because the sale was over 25 years ago, he hasnt given us any detail 
about what Halifax actually said to him in the meeting.  And, in the absence  of more 
persuasive evidence,  I dont find that I can fairly  and reasonably say that Halifax didnt  make  
it clear to Mr B that the MPPI was optional or that he didnt choose  to take it. 
As Halifax advised Mr B to take out the insurance  it ought to have taken reasonable steps to 
ensure that it was suitable for his needs.  I dont know  what  steps Halifax took, if any, but I 
find that the MPPI was suitable in any event. I say this because, knowing what  I do about 
Mr Bs circumstances at the time and the terms and conditions of the policy that Ive referred  
to above:
Mr B was likely  to have been eligible for the policy;
Mr B was unlikely to have been  caught by any of the MPPIs main restrictions and 
limitations  such as those affecting someone  with a pre-existing medical condition;
Ref: DRN49758892Mr B has told us that he was entitled to sick pay from his employer and he had savings  
to help him make his mortgage repayments  had he not been working. However, following 
a successful claim the policy would have paid out monthly in addition to this. I dont know  
the actual amount  of these payments. But by reference to the policy to which Ive 
referred, it seems these would have  been at least the amount of his monthly mortgage 
repayments. In the case of Mr B being  off work  because of accident or sickness,  these  
payments would probably have been  made for up to 24 months.  And, in the case of him 
having been made redundant, they would have  probably been made for up to 12 months. 
So I think that the MPPI  could  have been  of use to Mr B;
The policy was reasonably priced by reference  to other  similar polices available in the 
market at the time;
 Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr B couldnt afford the insurance.  In any event,  as it 
was paid for monthly, he could  have cancelled the policy  at any time had he later felt that 
it was unaffordable or he no longer required it;
Its possible that Halifax didnt give Mr B all the information about the MPPI that it ought to 
have so that he could make  a fully informed decision whether to take it or not. But in view of 
what Ive concluded  above I dont think that clearer information would have stopped  him 
buying it. I reach this conclusion particularly taking into account the possible serious 
consequences that could have arisen  had Mr B not been able to keep up his mortgage  
repayments, which were  secured on his home.
This means  I dont  think that Mr B has lost out because of anything  Halifax may have done 
wrong, or omitted to do, during the sale. So theres  nothing I require it to put right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4975889