K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has declined  part of 
their claim for damage to some internal rooms of their property,  which they believe was 
caused by a storm and should be covered  under  their home insurance policy.
background
Lloyds declined part of Mr and Mrs Js claim on the basis that the damage wasnt consistent  
with a one off storm event. It accepted that a storm had caused  external damage to the felt 
roof covering  of a dormer  window in late December 2017. But it rejected the claim for 
internal damage  as it said it had been  ongoing for a much longer period and pre-dated the 
storm. It pointed to black mould spotting and cracks  to the plaster, which it said wouldnt 
have happened  in such a short space of time.
Our investigator said there was no dispute thered been a storm. But he agreed with Lloyds 
that the storm had brought existing  problems to the surface and the damage pre-dated  the 
storm. As such, he thought the conclusion  reached  by Lloyds was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree and said that there  hadnt been any cracking or damp spores  
before the storm. They asked for their complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs J think their property was damaged  during a storm and, as their policy  covers  
storm damage, they think they should  be covered  for this type of claim. So Ive considered 
this, taking into account the policy terms and conditions.
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three  main questions:
1.Were there  storm conditions  on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
2.Is the damage claimed  for consistent with damage a storm typically  causes?
3.Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If the answer  to all of these questions is yes then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of above questions is no the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
There was a storm. That has been  accepted by all parties and there is no need for me to 
comment any further on that issue. So I can answer  yes to issue  one.
The surveyor appointed  by Lloyds to investigate the claim decided that the external damage 
had been caused by a storm and Lloyds accepted that part of the claim. However, the 
surveyor didnt think the internal damage had been caused by the storm. It was the 
surveyors view that the damage present in the bedroom had been ongoing for much longer 
than the storm event of late December 2017.  He said this was evident from the black mould  
Ref: DRN41081562spotting on the insulation and surface  of the artex, cracking on the wall and ceiling and 
sodium present  on the surface  of the plaster  and artex. He concluded that this could only be 
the result  of ingress  over a period of time, which would be attributable to poor maintenance 
of the roof pitch  and dormer. 
Ive reviewed the evidence from the surveyor and Im persuaded by his findings. He took a 
number of photographs of the damaged  area and the issues  hes highlighted are easily  
identifiable. For example,  I can see the mould  spotting on the walls and the cracking  on the 
surface of the plaster and artex. I recognise that Mr and Mrs J have said that these were not 
present before the storm but Lloyds have said that this type of damage wouldnt have 
happened in such  a short space of time. 
The surveyor visited the property and took the photographs less than a week  after the storm 
event. And mould  is something which typically happens over time and is not consistent  with 
damage caused by a storm. So Im persuaded that the damage I can see in the photographs  
wouldnt have happened that quickly. Its possible that the storm may have highlighted the 
problem with Mr and Mrs Js plaster, but Im not persuaded  it was the main  cause of the 
damage. 
Mr and Mrs Js insurance policy doesnt cover damage caused by a gradually operating 
cause and goes  on to clarify that this is something that happens gradually over a period of 
time, for example corrosion, damp, condensation, decay or decomposition. With all of this in 
mind, Im unable to answer  yes to storm issues two and three.
Im sorry  to hear about  the problems Mr and Mrs J have experienced at their property. But 
for the reasons Ive given,  I think  it was reasonable for Lloyds to refuse  this part of their 
claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019.
Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4108156