K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained about Allianz  Insurance Plc. He isnt happy about  the way it dealt with 
a claim against his commercial motor  insurance policy.  
background
In April 2017 a third party made a claim against  him and Allianz looked into it. Mr D made  it 
clear that he wasnt involved in an accident  and Allianz looked to defend  him. It inspected  
both vehicles and appointed a solicitor when the third party  instructed their own solicitors.
Liability was eventually  settled, and it was established that Mr D wasnt involved  in the 
accident. But Mr D wasnt happy as this incident had impacted upon his premium. This was 
because this had affected his no claims discount (NCD) and was an open  claim at this stage. 
Mr D said this affected his premiums to such an extent that he couldnt insure his other 
vehicles. Allianz acknowledged some delay  and offered Mr D £250 compensation.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr D and partly upheld  his complaint. He was of the 
view Allianz had delayed  things unnecessarily and thought it should pay Mr D £750 
compensation (total)  in acknowledgement of this. But he didnt think it should  be held 
responsible for Mr Ds consequential  costs.
As Mr D didnt  agree the matter has been  passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree the complaint 
should be partly upheld. Ill explain why.
I agree  Allianz  had to consider the third partys claim and unfortunately consideration of such 
claims can take a period  of time. But I agree  that Allianz could have finalised things more 
quickly which would have  allowed Mr D to get insurance at a cheaper price quicker.
Allianz has accepted  this and agreed  with our investigator that it should pay £750 
compensation which I think is reasonable.
I know Mr D would like a lot more compensation and says he wasnt able to insure his 
vehicles because of this delay. This meant  they have been  left standing and fallen into a 
state of disrepair. I know Mr D feels this should  be factored in to the level of compensation. 
But this service has a long-standing approach that customers should look to mitigate their 
position. And so, I think Mr D should  have taken steps to stem the deterioration of his 
vehicles. Mr D could have  looked  to sell them for their market  value  if he wasnt  able to 
insure them at that time, or simply kept them ticking over and not stored outside. I note Mr D 
didnt look to shop  around for other  quotes and it is quite likely that he couldve got insurance 
far cheaper  had he done so.
Similarly, I know Mr D feels Allianz  should  pay the costs incurred when he didnt  declare  his 
vehicle off-road and he was fined. But he could have simply told the relevant  government 
agency that his vehicle  was off-road, which it was, and filled in the appropriate 
documentation. This would have meant he didnt need the vehicle insured and he wouldnt 
have been fined. So, I dont think it would be fair to hold Allianz responsible  for this.
Ref: DRN49098282As such,  although  I can understand why Mr D didnt get his vehicles insured (because of the 
increase costs caused by the third party making  a claim against him). But he still didnt 
insure them and look to make them roadworthy even when it was clear  Allianz  had marked 
its systems showing  that he wasnt involved in the accident. This meant  the vehicles were 
still left in poorly stored conditions unnecessary even after Mr D couldve got them insured. 
So, I dont think I can fairly say that Allianz  is responsible for the consequential costs  he has 
faced. 
But I do agree  that Allianz took too long to mark the claim as information  only. And so, I 
partly uphold this complaint and require Allianz  to increase the level of compensation from 
£250 to £750.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I partly  uphold this complaint.  I require  Allianz 
Insurance Plc to pay Mr D £750  compensation (total).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4909828