K821x#15complaint
Mr R and Mrs F complain  about how QIC Europe Ltd handled  their claim for an escape  of 
water made under their home insurance  policy. 
Reference to QIC includes parties  acting  on its behalf. 
background
Mr R and Mrs F discovered a leak from one of their pipes  on 9 April 2018. They  managed to 
turn off the water at the mains which meant they were without water and heating during that 
time. Mrs F contacted QIC to make a claim. She also wanted to confirm  they would arrange  
alternative accommodation. Although QIC indicated this would be covered this was never  
confirmed. 
Mrs F followed up the matter with QIC on an almost daily basis. She also went to live with 
friends while waiting  for a repair  to be carried out. On 20 April 2018  QIC agreed to send out 
a field surveyor to assess the damage. On 23 April 2018 the surveyor arranged an 
appointment to carrying out an inspection on 1 May 2018. 
On 10 May 2018 QIC offered a settlement  of £564.47 for the claim. But Mrs F didnt agree to 
this sum  as she had a £500  excess leaving her with £64.47.  She was also unhappy that no 
consideration had been  given to the delays, to it not providing alternative  accommodation  
nor did it provide a breakdown of how it had arrived at that figure. The leak was fixed  and 
water turned back on, on 18 May 2018.
Mrs F complained and said she would be sending her own quotes for the work. And she sent 
invoices in June  2018. QIC issued a final response  to Mrs F explaining that it was happy to 
reimburse her invoices less the excess  leaving a final payment of £430.  But it didnt agree 
to waive  any excess as it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She concluded QIC should have done  more to find 
Mrs F alternative accommodation and she was left without a habitable home  for a number of 
weeks. So she asked it to pay £300  compensation. But she didnt ask it to waive the excess. 
Mrs F accepted the outcome. But QIC didnt. It explained it couldnt do any repair work until 
the leak had been fixed (and that wasnt covered under the policy) and so it didnt think £300 
was warranted  but it agreed  to pay £150  compensation.
Mrs F didnt  accept the counter offer and so the matter has been  referred  to me. In the 
meantime Mrs F accepted the settlement  made for the claim and £430 has since  been paid. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. I 
explain why below. 
QIC and Mrs F have  now agreed a settlement for the damage  caused  as a result  of the 
escape of water. So I dont need to make any finding about  that. What  is left for me to 
consider is whether or not QIC progressed the claim appropriately. 
Ref: DRN40012182Mrs F initially made her claim on 9 April 2018.  But it was 11 days  before QIC confirmed it 
would send out a surveyor to review  the damage. I understand  Mrs F had only recently 
made a different claim  for escape water that had been declined and it wanted to review the 
matter. But the best way to do that was to send out the surveyor to assess the damage.  
Given Mrs F was without  water, I think  QIC should  have treated this with more  urgency.
Mrs F also said she asked  for alternative  accommodation and she was told on the phone 
she could have this. QIC said it told her she could submit receipts  if she stayed elsewhere. 
But when she asked  for confirmation  that wasnt provided. I can understand why, without  
confirmation, Mrs F would  have been reluctant  to pay for accommodation without being 
certain she would be reimbursed.  Because of that she opted to stay with friends, putting her 
to some inconvenience and embarrassment, particularly as one of her friends was going 
through a difficult  personal time. 
The damage was assessed on 1 May and an offer made on 10 May 2018.  But there was no 
breakdown as to what the settlement offer was for. I would  expect this to be provided so a 
policyholder could check they were  being  offered a fair settlement. Because of that Mrs F 
complained and was put to the trouble  of obtaining her own quotes and arranging the work 
herself. 
Overall, I think QIC should have progressed the claim with more  urgency and with more  
understanding for the situation  in which Mrs F found  herself. Although it has offered £150 
compensation I dont  think that goes far enough for the trouble she was put to. In all the 
circumstances I think £300  is a fairer reflection of the impact QICs handling of this claim has 
had. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Mr 
R and Mrs F £300 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4001218