K820x#14complaint
In 1998, Miss M took out a personal  loan with Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide). In 
1999 she then took out an additional  top up loan.  On both occasions,  Nationwide  also sold 
Miss M a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  alongside the loans. Miss M thinks that 
Nationwide mis-sold these policies to her and she wants it to give her back  the premiums  
she paid for them, plus interest. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator didnt think  
that Nationwide had mis-sold the policies to Miss M and didnt recommend that it should  give 
her any money back. Miss M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her case, so 
it has come  to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do in Miss Ms case. Ive looked into everything that Miss M and Nationwide  have 
sent us or told us about the complaint  and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Miss M has told us that when she took the loans she specifically told Nationwide  that she 
didnt need PPI. Shes said that she was in jobs which provided sick pay, so she didnt need 
it. However, Nationwide has told us that it let Miss M know that PPI was optional  and that 
she chose to buy it.
Nationwide has sent us copies of the forms which Miss M filled in to apply for the loans. In 
1999, Nationwide called  its PPI policy Loancare cover, and the form Miss M filled in was 
called a Guaranteed Loan  Acceptance Form . It offered customers the chance to take PPI in 
a section called Protecting your repayments.  This section was separate from information 
about the loan itself.  It gave customers the chance  to take or decline PPI by ticking  Yes  or 
No boxes. The text alongside the Yes box said:
Yes, I would like to take advantaged of the peace  of mind offered by Loancare  
cover.
And the text alongside the No box said: 
No, I do not wish to take advantage..
On Miss Ms form, the box for Yes has been  ticked and she has signed nearby. 
The form for the 1998 loan had a very similar layout,  and again Miss M has ticked  the Yes 
box for PPI and signed nearby. 
I fully accept that Miss M is trying her best to remember what  happened  when she took the 
loans, but almost two decades have passed since 1998 and 1999 and Im satisfied  from the 
forms Nationwide has sent us that on both occasions it gave Miss M a choice about PPI and 
she chose to take it.
Ref: DRN49364302Nationwide has also told us that its records show that it sold PPI to Miss M on an information 
only basis and didnt  personally recommend it to her. Miss M has told us that she cant  
remember if Nationwide made a recommendation or not. The two application forms dont 
contain anything  to make me think that Nationwide  did recommend PPI, so Ive assessed the 
case on the basis that Nationwide sold PPI to Miss M on an information  only basis. This 
meant that Nationwide  had to tell Miss M about  the policies fairly and clearly so she could 
decide if she wanted them, but it didnt  have to check if the policies were right for her 
circumstances. This was something  for her to decide for herself. 
After so many years  have  passed, I cant tell what Nationwide  told Miss M about  the policies. 
The forms I have mentioned only described the policies very briefly and I dont know if 
Nationwide gave Miss M any other leaflets of information about the policies before she 
chose to buy them. So Ive looked  into the features  of the policies to see if they contained 
anything which was likely to have  put Miss M off buying them  if Nationwide  had explained  
things properly. 
From what  Miss M has told us, she met the policies  eligibility rules and I havent  seen 
anything to make me think that she would have been caught out by any of the policys main 
limitations or exclusions if she had made a claim. 
Miss M paid for the policies by borrowing  an extra amount which  was added to the main  
loan. She then paid interest on this extra amount. Nationwide has sent us the loan 
agreements for both policies. These show the extra borrowing for PPI, the amount of interest  
Miss M would need to pay for the extra borrowing, the total cost of PPI and the amount Miss 
M would need to pay each month.  Miss M signed  the agreements just below these cost 
details, so Im satisfied that Nationwide explained how much  she would have to pay for PPI. 
And she seems to have  been able to afford it. 
Both policies  were set up to run for relatively  short periods of time,  but if Miss M had wanted 
to repay  her loans early, she would have received a pro-rata refund on the cost of the 
policies, so she also had some flexibility.
As Nationwide  didnt advise Miss M about  PPI or recommend it to her, it didnt have to 
consider her sick pay. But I would like to reassure Miss M that if she had made  a successful 
claim on the sickness cover, the policy would have paid out over and above her sick pay, 
which may well have  been useful for her. 
I accept that Nationwide may not have explained  everything about PPI to Miss M as clearly 
as it should have done. But having  looked into the policies and Miss Ms circumstances  
when she bought them, I dont think they had any features which would have  stopped her 
buying them  if Nationwide had done  things properly.  
I dont think Nationwide  mis-sold PPI to Miss M. 
Ref: DRN49364303my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Miss Ms complaint about 
Nationwide Building  Society. Im not going to tell it to give her any money  back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2019.  
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4936430