K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Society  of Lloyds provided poor service  when she made a claim on her 
motor insurance policy.  Mrs L is represented by her husband, Mr L. 
background
Mrs Ls car was damaged  when it collided with an animal on 8 June  2018.  Her broker  
reported the accident to Lloyds ten days later. Lloyds instructed one of its approved  
repairers the next day. As Mr and Mrs L didnt hear from the repairer for two weeks,  Mr L 
chased Lloyds.  It asked the repairer  to make  contact. As that still didnt happen, Mr L 
continued to contact Lloyds for updates. 
Lloyds arranged to have the car collected for repair on Friday, 13 July 2018, just before 
Mr and Mrs L went on holiday. The car was booked into the garage on the following Monday. 
But the recovery agent was delayed that evening, so the booking  was missed. The car then 
didnt go into the garage until 6 August 2018. In the meantime, Lloyds apologised for the 
poor service and the delays. It said it would waive the £300 policy excess. Mr L said extra 
compensation was merited. 
Our investigator noted that much  of the delay  seemed to have been caused  by the approved  
repairer  for which Lloyds was responsible. He thought Lloyds offer to waive the policy  
excess was more than fair. And he said we could only ask a business to compensate its 
customers. In this case, he thought  that was Mrs L, the policy holder.  
Mr L didnt think the investigator realised  how much trouble arose from the recovery agent 
not collecting the car as arranged. And he said that as a named driver on the policy, he was 
also one of Lloyds  customers. The investigator said even  if that were  the case, in his opinion 
waiving the policy excess would still have been fair compensation. He confirmed that hed 
taken into account  the effect of the cars  non-collection.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
I think theres bound  to be some inconvenience after an accident, especially  when repairs  
have to be done. Often, vehicles cant be repaired straight away. But Lloyds accepted that in 
this case, the extent  of the delays  and the poor contact amounted to inadequate service. 
Although it instructed the approved repairer  promptly, the repairer didnt make contact with 
Mr and Mrs L as instructed. Later on, it seems  the estimate for the repairs that Lloyds 
needed to approve was mislaid or lost in transit. Then the repair work couldnt be done whilst 
Mr and Mrs L were  on holiday, as theyd expected. Nor could it be done straight away on 
their return   although I dont think the repairer was to blame  for that.
I can see that the recovery trucks late arrival  on 13 July 2018  would  have been  a very 
frustrating experience for Mr and Mrs L. The recovery service  told Mr L it would arrive at 
around 6pm. But it was diverted by the police due to a serious accident. Mr L was given a 
later arrival time, but that too was missed. I think the delay was outside the control of the 
recovery service.  It was caused by an accident  in rush-hour traffic. But Mr L should have 
Ref: DRN46272762been kept better informed about the trucks  progress. He cancelled the job at around 
7.30pm. By then, it seems the truck  was close by. But Mr and Mrs L had no choice but to 
leave at that point,  due to their prior arrangements. 
There was no progress  until they returned from holiday on 24 July 2018.  It then emerged  
that the repairer thought  the job had been cancelled, so Lloyds had to issue another 
instruction to it. The repairer  couldnt do the work  until 6 August 2018.  I can see how 
frustrating that further two-week delay must have been. Lloyds offered the option of a cash  
sum for repairs at that point. And it said it would consider an estimate  from another  garage.  
So I think it wanted to try to limit any further inconvenience if possible.   
I think the fact that Mrs Ls car was drivable  will have reduced  the level of inconvenience  
shed otherwise have faced.  But theres no doubt that there were  avoidable  delays on the 
part of Lloyds and its agents - and Mr L shouldnt have had to chase Lloyds as he did.
Mr L thinks more compensations justified. But I think waiving the £300  policy  excess  was a 
fair way to make up for the trouble  and upset Lloyds and its agents  caused. I dont think 
wed have asked it to provide more than that sum had it not already made  the offer. 
I think Mr Ls a customer  of Lloyds, as hes a named driver on the policy.  So I think  
Mr and Mrs L could both have complained  to Lloyds and then to us. But had they both done 
so, Id still have  thought  its settlement  offer was reasonable, taking everything into account.
As I think  Lloyds acted reasonably in accepting that it was at fault and in trying  to put 
matters right, I cant uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4627276