K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr B and Miss M used to hold with Bank of Scotland plc 
(BOS). Theyre unhappy that BOS is asking them to make  a payment after they thought the 
mortgage had been redeemed in full.
background
Mr B and Miss M were  in the process  of changing  lenders; Mr B called BOS  in 
mid-January 2019  to say that they were about to switch lender and that he intended 
cancelling the mortgage direct debit.  BOS staff member explained  to Mr B that the January 
payment would still be due if the mortgage  redemption took place  after the end of the month.  
Mr B said hed cancel the direct debit, because the transaction  was expected to complete 
within seven to ten days, but if it were delayed,  hed call the bank back to sort out the 
January payment.
Mr B went  ahead and cancelled the direct  debit. Then, on 29 January 2019, his and Miss Ms 
solicitor requested a redemption statement  from BOS. The relevance of this date is that it is 
the very day that BOS called for the January payment  under  the direct  debit. Due to the way 
banking systems work, the redemption statement that BOS produced was calculated on the 
assumption that the direct debit had been successful. Mr B and Miss Ms solicitor  redeemed 
the mortgage on 5 February  2019 using the figures in the statement, but by then, the direct 
debit call had been rejected and the mortgage account balance  increased by the missed  
payment.
When BOS contacted Mr B and Miss M about the overdue amount, which was a little under 
£590, they complained saying the money had already been earmarked for essential  
expenditure. BOS  didnt  uphold the complaint, and when Mr B and Miss M referred  it to us, 
our investigator wasnt persuaded BOS had done  anything wrong. Mr B and Miss M have 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
new for Mr B and Miss M. I dont think BOS  has done  anything wrong either,  and Ill explain 
why.
Ive listened to a recording  of the phone call Mr B made to BOS. The person who took the 
call made  it clear that he should  only cancel the direct debit if he was sure redemption  
should take place in January, because otherwise the January payment would be due. Its 
reasonable to conclude  Mr B understood this because he said that if redemption took place 
later, hed get back in touch to sort out the January payment. 
The mortgage wasnt redeemed  in January; it was redeemed on 5 February 2019; that being 
the case, it shouldnt have  come  as a surprise to Mr B and Miss M that theyd still need to 
pay Januarys payment.  But theres nothing in the available evidence to suggest Mr B or 
Miss M contacted BOS again, as Mr B had said theyd do.
Ref: DRN48556482my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4855648