K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the valuation of his written-off  car and the poor service provided  by 
Ageas Insurance Limited when he made  a claim on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr Ss car was damaged in an incident on 23 December 2018, just before he went  abroad 
for over three weeks. Mr Ss garage was able to assess the damage in his absence.  It 
thought the damage may cost around  £2,500 to put right. 
On 11 January 2019 Mr S informed the broker that administered the policy (a sister company 
of Ageas) about the incident. On 14 January 2019  it said his message had been passed on. 
As hed heard nothing further,  Mr S contacted the broker again on 25 January 2019.  It asked  
him to call it, despite Mr S having said he wanted  contact to be by email.  Mr S was asked to 
provide the details of the incident again,  which he did. On 1 February  2019  the broker  told 
Mr S that his details  had been passed to Ageass claims team.
Mr S says Ageas called him several times that week, and that on 7 February 2019 the broker  
said it could no longer assist him, as Ageas was dealing with the claim. Mr S says he called 
Ageas a few days later to query progress, to complain about the calls hed been getting and 
to ask about a courtesy car. He was told he could only have one if his car was being 
repaired by its approved repairer.  He agreed  to have the car collected  from his garage. He 
heard from Ageass repairer on 12 February  2019  initially  by phone  - and it later called  him 
several times, despite his earlier request for emails.  
Mr S says he got a call and a text from Ageas on 15 February 2019  to say his car was a total 
loss. Ageas offered him £3,500 for the car, minus the policy excess. Mr S didnt  accept the 
offer. And he says he didnt think the policy had an excess. On 19 February 2019 Ageas 
raised its offer to £3,984.  Mr S still thought it wasnt enough, given the adverts  hed seen for 
similar cars at higher prices. But he said hed accept it if the excess  wasnt  deducted.
As Ageas didnt  agree, Mr S complained to us. One of our investigators said she thought 
Ageas had offered a fair price for the car, in line with the motor trade guide figures shed 
seen. She thought it was fair for it to deduct  the policy excess, in line with the policys terms. 
In her view,  Ageas dealt with the claim in a reasonable time. She said its claims file showed 
that it didnt have the details of Mr Ss claim until 1 February 2019, and it had provided an 
upgraded offer by 19 February 2019.  The investigator accepted that Mr S had first raised the 
claim with the broker on 11 January 2019, but it wasnt passed on to Ageas.
Mr S remained unhappy  with the valuation. He said Ageas could have waived the policy  
excess in the light of the poor service he thought hed received  especially the unwanted  
contact by phone. Mr S asked for a review of his complaint by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy schedule shows there was a compulsory excess of £145. Mr S decided  against 
having an extra voluntary excess. I think thats  why he thought there was no excess to pay. 
Ref: DRN40964932In terms of the valuation,  Ageas used the figures  provided  in the national trade guides. We 
think thats the fairest way to establish  a cars pre-accident  market value, as the guides rely 
on extensive national  research.  
Mr S found  adverts for similar  cars to his that were  on sale for more than Ageass offer. But 
we dont generally think adverts  are helpful  in valuing cars. Theyre  based  on asking prices, 
which are usually inflated and are open  to negotiation. Ageass first offer for the car was low, 
but its second offer was in line with the trade guide prices. I dont think Ageas acted 
unreasonably in offering Mr S £3,985 for his car. And it was offered it as an interim payment.   
Mr S thinks  it took too long to settle the claim, as he first raised it on 11 January 2019. But 
Ageass file notes  show that it didnt know about  the claim until 1 February 2019. It had 
assessed the car and made  a second  offer of settlement  within three weeks.  I dont think 
thats unreasonable. The broker  should  have passed the claim on to Ageas promptly,  but 
unfortunately it seems  it didnt. I know Mr S thinks the broker and Ageas are the same  
organisation, but they have separate roles  and responsibilities. Its open to Mr S to complain 
to the broker if he thinks  it provided poor service to him before  Ageas became involved.
Mr S told the broker he didnt want contact by phone, but from Ageass file notes,  it doesnt  
look as though that was passed on to Ageas. Mr S says he complained  after Ageas made  a 
few calls to him, but I dont think it can be blamed  for making the first few calls. It says it 
didnt contact him after that until 15 February 2019, when he got a missed call and a text 
about the car being written-off. I dont think Ageas should have tried to call him at that point. 
And I think it should have  told its approved repairer not to call. Mr S says the repairer  did so 
before and after sending him an email on 12 February 2019, even though  by then he had 
asked it directly not to call him. I think that was poor service, and it must have been 
frustrating for Mr S, but on balance I dont think its enough to justify compensation.  
As I think  Ageas acted  reasonably overall in dealing with the claim,  even though I can see 
why Mr S was unhappy with its service, I cant uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4096493