K822xcomplaint
Mr O complains that Santander UK Plc completed  a current  account  switch after he decided  
not to proceed. Hes also unhappy he incurred account charges.
background 
In September  2018 Mr O completed an online switching request during  which  he instructed 
Santander to switch his current account  to it from another  bank, which Ill refer to as N. He 
said he was sent a letter by Santander which requested his signature to authorise  the switch.  
Mr O didnt return this letter to Santander because he decided not to proceed with his 
previous switching request. He thought by not returning this letter  this would prevent the 
switch taking place.  But on 28 September his account was switched to Santander. 
After Mr Os account switched to Santander  he incurred unpaid transaction  charges due to a 
number of failed  direct debts. He was also charged unarranged overdraft fees, which  he 
wasnt happy about. Mr O complained  to Santander  about what  had happened. He said he 
wasnt happy the account switch had taken place. And he wasnt  happy about the account 
charges he had incurred. He thought he shouldve received  text alerts about the status of his 
account. And he felt that if he had he wouldve avoided charges being applied.   
When Santander responded  to Mr Os complaint  it said it had processed his account  switch 
request in line with its switching  process. It also said the correspondence Mr O had received 
was for his records only. And it accepted  it hadnt  enrolled his account for its text alert 
service. So it credited Mr Os account with £120  to recognise this error.  
Being dissatisfied with Santanders response  Mr O referred his complaint  to our service.  In 
addition to the complaint issues he had raised with Santander Mr O told us he was unhappy 
about the way in which Santander had dealt with his complaint. 
After our investigator looked into Mr Os complaint they didnt uphold it. In summary they 
didnt think Santander  had done  anything wrong.  They said Santander  had undertaken the 
account switch  request  in accordance with Mr Os instructions. They  also said it was entitled 
to apply the charges it had done and had acted in line with the account terms and conditions. 
They thought the goodwill payments it had offered and made were fair in the circumstances. 
But Mr O disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Os complaint  either  about  the account  switching 
process, the account  charges he incurred  or the concerns he raised  about  the way in which 
Santander handled his complaint. 
Strictly speaking, we dont  have the power to look at how financial businesses deal with 
complaint handling  as its not a regulated  activity  under the legislation that governs our 
service. So, even if I did think Santander  hadnt done things well in this regard, I wouldnt be 
able to uphold  that element of Mr Os concerns or make an award.  I cant  act outside the 
law. So, I wont spend any time in this decision on that. 
Ref: DRN49364792The first part of Mr Os complaint is about Santander switching his account  to it from N. He 
said it shouldnt have  completed the switch  because he had changed his mind. So, Ill focus 
on this issue first.  
The starting point  here is that Santander  should  follow its customers requests, unless 
theres good reason not to. Here, Mr O gave it online instructions to transfer his current  
account to it from N. It did that and Im satisfied that it correctly  processed  Mr Os switching 
request. Ill explain  why.
Santander wrote to Mr O on 10 August 2018  to confirm the details of his switch. It provided 
him with copies of the current account  switch  agreement and account closure instruction. 
And it told him he didnt  need to do anything with these  documents. Santander also 
explained in its correspondence that, on 28 September 2018, the switching process  would 
be complete and his balance  from N would  be transferred. It told him payments  could then 
start to debit his Santander account. 
I understand Mr O thought that by not signing and returning the correspondence he had 
received from Santander it would prevent the switch from taking place. But its clear  to me 
from the correspondence Santander sent Mr O that it was providing  him with information 
about his switch and that this documentation  was simply  for his records.  So, the switching 
process wasnt dependent on Santander receiving signed correspondence from Mr O.
Santander said Mr O wouldve received three  email updates about starting, accepting and 
completing the switching process. With this in mind,  I think  he ought to have been aware of 
the steps involved in this process. 
Santander also said once  a switch has commenced it cant be cancelled.  If a customer  
changes their mind they need to contact their original  bank  to arrange for the account to be 
switched back to them. I havent seen any evidence that Mr O instructed either  N or 
Santander to stop the switching process or to switch  his account back. So, I cant fairly find 
Santander made an error in completing his account  switch.
Ill turn now to the second part of Mr Os complaint, which is about the fees he incurred. 
Having considered Mr Os bank statements and I can see his opening balance  on 28 
September 2018 wasnt enough to cover  a direct debit payment that was due to leave his 
account on 1 October  2018. There were a number  of direct debits that werent met due to 
insufficient funds  and Mr Os account went into an unarranged overdraft,  which caused him 
to incur charges.  Mr O feels these account charges are unfair. He feels  he shouldve been 
automatically enrolled in Santanders account alerts  system. And he says this wouldve 
prevented charges as it wouldve alerted him if his account had insufficient funds to cover  
outgoings such as direct debits. 
Santander said it started enrolling accounts  to receive overdraft  account  alerts last year. It 
recognised it didnt enrol Mr Os account as it should  have done. So, to put matters  right it 
registered Mr Os account for alerts  on 8 April 2019. Ive seen evidence  of this. And its also 
provided our service with documentation to show it wrote to him on 25 May 2019 to 
apologise for its oversight. As Santander accepts it made an error in not registering Mr Os 
account for text alerts Im satisfied it would  be reasonable for it to refund any account  
charges he incurred prior to the date that he was enrolled for this service. 
Ref: DRN49364793Its already credited Mr Os account with £120  as part of its remediation project. These 
credits relate to two unarranged overdraft usage fees and two unpaid transaction fees, which  
Santander says Mr O incurred during  the period in which  he wasnt  enrolled. But Mr O feels  
hes due a refund of £169.84 because thats the total amount he thinks  hes been charged  in 
account fees. He says these charges were caused  by him not receiving  text alerts.
Having carefully considered Mr Os bank  statements,  I can see that up to 8 April 2019 he 
incurred £100  in unarranged overdraft fees and £20 in unpaid  transaction fees. As 
Santanders credited  his account with £120 Im satisfied that its refunded  him the fees that 
he incurred during the period that he wasnt registered for the alert service. 
I can see Mr O incurred charges after he was enrolled for the text alert service. But Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to tell Santander to refund those  charges. I say this because  Ive 
seen evidence Mr O was receiving regular text alerts notifying him about the status of his 
account during  the period  in which these charges were applied.  While Santanders alert 
service is intended  to help a customer  manage  their account its the customers  responsibility  
to ensure their account has sufficient funds to avoid going overdrawn. As Ive seen evidence 
that Mr O was regularly  logging onto online banking I think  he ought  to have known the 
status of his account and its balance.
The terms of Mr Os account allow Santander to apply charges where a customer  doesnt 
have sufficient funds  to cover payments leaving their account and where their account goes 
into an unarranged  overdraft. As this is what Santander did Im satisfied it was entitled  to 
apply the charges it did. It acted in line with the terms of Mr Os account. So, I cant fairly  find 
it acted in error or tell it to refund him.
Since Mr O referred his complaint to our service Santander refunded him a further £50 in 
charges. These were charges that Mr O incurred since hes been  receiving account alerts,  
which I wouldnt have told Santander  it had to refund. Once refunded  this left an outstanding 
debit balance on Mr Os account  of £49.84, which Santander offered to waive as a goodwill 
gesture. Santander  has also offered to pay Mr O a further £100 to bring his complaint to a 
close. Again,  I wouldnt have told it to do this for the reasons already outlined.  
Mr O doesnt think  what Santander  has done  to resolve his complaint goes far enough. I 
recognise that Mr Os upset by whats happened  but we arent  here to punish businesses. 
And for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied  that Santander acted fairly and reasonably. 
So I wont  be asking it do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Ill leave it to Mr O to decide whether 
he wishes to approach Santander UK Plc to accept the additional £149.84 its offered to 
resolve this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4936479