K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the way that their home insurance claim for water damage  
was dealt with by AXA Insurance UK Plc.
background
In January 2017 Mr and Mrs P reported  a claim for water damage to AXA because  of a 
leaking pipe.  The claim was initially rejected by loss adjusters appointed by AXA,  but it then 
agreed to accept liability. The property was surveyed and asbestos was identified  in the tiles. 
This was arranged to be removed  and AXA then went  ahead with the strip out and drying of 
the property. It then agreed  a cash settlement with Mr and Mrs P so they could instruct their 
own contractors. In June  2017 their contractors identified  cracking  to the walls. AXA 
investigated this to see if a claim for subsidence  needed to be made. After the damage was 
surveyed at the end of August 2017 and reported back  to AXA,  it decided  the damage  wasnt 
subsidence but could be dealt with as part of the escape of water claim. Some  stabilisation 
work had to be carried out which  took it up until late November. AXA then agreed  to a further 
pay-out to Mr and Mrs P so that the further  repair work needed could be carried out by their 
contractors.
This meant that the work to repair the damage  took much longer  than anticipated. AXA 
agreed with Mr and Mrs P that a kitchen pod be installed in their garage as they couldnt  use 
the kitchen. It appears that alternative accommodation was discussed but Mr and Mrs P say 
they were only offered  one unsuitable  property.  When  the pod was installed it was thought 
that the works would  take about a month.  In fact the pod was there from the end of May 
2017 until the end of March 2018.  During that time Mr and Mrs P had to live without furniture. 
And as the pod was in the garage  during the winter months they had to go outside in the 
cold weather to use it. And it did freeze  for part of the time. The pod was finally removed at 
the end of March  2018.
Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to this office. In particular they said that AXA had 
promised them a disturbance allowance of £10 per day for adults and £5 per day for children 
during the time they had the kitchen pod. They said there was very little effort  to find them 
alternative accommodation. Theyd  been shown one place which  was unsuitable  and then 
were offered  the kitchen pod. Further, they didnt think they had been paid enough for the 
kitchen. They also said that they had made a subject access request (SAR) to the loss 
adjusters for their papers  but had no response.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said AXA should pay the disturbance allowance 
because Mr and Mrs P were unsettled for such a long period. She suggested that AXA 
consider what compensation to pay for the distress  caused to Mr and Mrs P. And she said it 
should issue a letter of apology and ensure the SAR was provided.
 
AXA responded to say it would pay £500 compensation and the disturbance  allowance  and 
issue a letter of apology.  It has now paid the allowance of £9,120.  It said it had paid enough  
for the kitchen. It said it would address  the SAR.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  believe  the compensation offer was sufficient. But in the meantime 
further issues had arisen  with the flooring. Ill advise how I think  that should be dealt with 
below. But, partly because the matter had taken so long to resolve,  our investigator then 
suggested that UKI pay £1.200 compensation. She also proposed that it pay a further £300 
because of the continuing delay  in addressing the SAR.
Ref: DRN48229662I issued a provisional decision. I proposed that AXA pay £500 compensation in light of the 
amount paid out for the disturbance allowance. I explained that I had no power  to award  
compensation in respect of the SAR issue.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  accept my decision as they didnt think they had been given enough 
compensation for having to live in damp and unhygienic conditions. Their children were  
affected by not being able to have friends  over to play and they had to spend two years  on 
concrete floors. They  believe they were paid the disturbance allowance as their entitlement 
under the policy  and that they had to fight tooth and nail for everything they succeeded in 
claiming from AXA. They feel that they should be awarded considerably  more  than £500 
compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
These were  my provisional findings:
scope of this decision  
Mr and Mrs P made  a complaint to the loss adjusters in February 2018 but AXA doesnt  
appear to have given any final response  to their complaint.  So I think in the circumstances  it 
would be appropriate  for me to consider the complaint from when they made it to us in April 
2018. Whilst the claim has continued  since then it relates to new issues that have arisen in 
respect of the flooring. I believe the extra works  have been  completed though  there are still 
outstanding issues  to be dealt with. Since that is a matter that is still ongoing  and may 
require some professional  expertise to resolve I cant deal with that. I note that the matter 
was referred by our investigator to AXA for it to investigate and provide a response to 
Mr and Mrs P. If they still wish to pursue this they should contact our investigator.
dealing with the SAR
This service has the power to deal only with regulated activities carried out by businesses  
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA).  In the case  of an insurer, that means 
essentially effecting (selling a policy)  and/or  carrying out contracts of insurance. The latter  
refers to the acceptance, conduct and settlement of a claim. How an insurer  (or its agents 
such as loss adjusters)  handle complaints doesnt form part of a regulated activity. As the 
response to a subject  access  request is essentially related to dealing with a complaint I dont 
think that any delay  in responding to that request falls within  our powers to deal with. As 
Mr P is aware, as he has already referred  his complaint there, it is the Information 
Commissioners office that has the power to enforce compliance  with data protection law. 
Although I believe  the SAR has now been actioned, regrettably I have no power to award 
compensation for the delay in it being  provided.
alternative accommodation
Mr and Mrs P say that only one possible house was shown to them  and that was unsuitable 
as it was outside the area for their childrens schools  and didnt allow pets. They  say they 
accepted the kitchen  pod on the basis that the disturbance allowance would be paid to them. 
I think that in May/June  a kitchen pod in a garage would be suitable. I believe  that at that 
Ref: DRN48229663time the works were anticipated to take about  a month. But, once it became clear the work 
was clearly going to take much longer I think that AXA should  have  discussed  the position  
with Mr and Mrs P and considered whether  to try and find alternative accommodation for 
them. This was especially  the case during the winter months.  Normally I would expect the 
insurer to instruct a letting  agent to discuss with the consumers the accommodation  
available. So I accept  that they would  have been  caused a good deal of inconvenience due 
to the claim taking so long with the kitchen  pod in place.
disturbance allowance
Mr and Mrs P have  said that they only accepted  the kitchen pod on the basis  they would be 
paid a disturbance  allowance.  AXA says thats not the case. It says the loss adjuster agreed 
to pay for extra heating in the winter months and to pay the allowance  when the kitchen pod 
was out of action  due to being frozen.  Nevertheless, on the recommendation of our 
investigator AXA has paid the full allowance.
Disturbance allowance is, despite its name, not intended to compensate the policyholders  for 
disturbance. It is paid when, for whatever reason, alternative accommodation is not arranged  
and the policyholder incurs extra costs due to a lack of facilities e.g. the cost of meals if 
having to stay in a hotel  or to buy takeaways, or pay for laundry costs etc. Its often  set at a 
specific rate to save consumers from having to keep every  single receipt.  The installation of 
a kitchen pod is intended to avoid  those extra costs.
As the extra cost related to heating  for which they have been paid separately, the allowance  
appears to have been paid to Mr and Mrs P as compensation  for the disturbance  to their 
lives especially as the kitchen pod was put in the garage and was awkward to access during 
the winter months.  AXA has agreed and paid this without quibble.  But I think  it fair to accept 
that the full payment of the allowance is intended as compensation  for the disturbance to 
Mr and Mrs Ps lives.  Certainly that is how our investigator put it to AXA and it accepted  her 
view in that respect. And even if there were an element of extra  costs in it, the amount paid 
is far in excess of what we would  consider  to be a reasonable payment for inconvenience in 
these circumstances,
kitchen contribution
This doesnt appear to have been mentioned  after our investigators first view, when she said 
she needed more  information. AXA says that the quote was for £6,959.15 (a promotional  
price) and it allowed £4000. This was agreed  and payment  released  in June 2017. The pre-
loss condition of the kitchen was very poor and the adjuster confirmed that they would only 
be replacing the damaged units and allowing 50% (in line with the policy wording) towards  
the undamaged  units. 
I understand from Mr and Mrs P that they cant get the promotional price now. But I note that 
they accepted the £4,000.  All I can say is that it appears to have been discussed  and 
accepted at the time. And when there are undamaged units we would  normally  expect the 
insurer to contribute  50% towards the cost of replacing them. So in respect of this complaint 
I wont be making any further award  in respect of the kitchen. But Im aware that issues  have 
arisen in respect  of the flooring. So if, because of that, Mr and Mrs P werent able to get the 
kitchen they wanted they may be able to raise it with AXA if they decide to make  a further 
complaint in respect of the flooring. 
compensation
Ref: DRN48229664In light of my comments about the disturbance allowance  paid in this case I think that Mr and 
Mrs P have already  been compensated for the inconvenience they experienced during the 
time the kitchen pod was in place. I do note that there was some delay in deciding  whether 
there was subsidence  at the property and then in carrying  out further work to stabilise  it. 
I think that at times Mr and Mrs P had difficulty getting in touch with the loss adjusters.  
Bearing in mind my comments  about  the scope  of this decision, I think  that the £500 offered 
by AXA is fair and reasonable.
letter of apology
I note that AXA agreed  to send a letter of apology to Mr and Mrs P. I wouldnt normally  
require this, as a forced letter of apology doesnt  in my view have the effect it should. But as 
AXA has previously agreed to send this (and as it didnt issue  a formal response to their 
complaints), it should now do so.
I do accept that Mr and Mrs P suffered considerable disturbance due to their having to live 
without their home being repaired and because AXA didnt pay enough attention to the need 
for alternative accommodation (though being out of the home  all that time also causes 
problems).
But the allowance theyve been paid is not something due under the terms of their policy. As 
I have explained,  it is something which would come  under the alternative  accommodation  
cover in the policy and is intended only to compensate for extra costs incurred by being  
without cooking  or washing  facilities. They did have such  facilities so in effect  theyve been  
paid £9,120 to compensate them for the inconvenience of having to live in their home whilst 
it was damp  and lacking  in furniture and flooring. That includes the effect on the family  and 
their concerns over health risks. To put it in perspective,  compensation of over £5,000 
comes within  our extreme awards  category and is awarded only in the most extreme 
cases. Our investigator  in her view said overall I do think this [disturbance allowance] would 
need to be paid. Mr P and his family  were  unsettled  during the time the kitchen pod was 
installed in their garage. This meant during this time Mr P and his family had to literally  leave  
their home every time they needed cook something. I wouldve expected this to be bearable 
for a few months, but not for 10 months,  some of which included the winter months.
In direct response to this AXA paid the allowance.  But as Ive said I think  this should be 
regarded as compensation. Ive also taken account of the fact that AXA wasnt  directly 
responsible for the work carried  out. It had to authorise payments  and was involved in the 
subsidence damage repairs. But it wasnt responsible for the day to day running of the claim. 
In so far as it was responsible for further delays I think the £500  offered is sufficient.
I must also emphasise the "scope of this decision" paragraph above in respect  of the period  
for which compensation has been  awarded.
Overall I think  Mr and Mrs P have essentially been  paid substantially  more compensation 
than we might normally  award in this sort of case. My provisional; findings are now final and 
form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Ref: DRN48229665pay to Mr and Mrs P compensation of £500.
issue a letter of apology to Mr and Mrs P.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 November  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4822966