K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Firstplus Financial Group Plc (Firstplus)  didnt pay them  compensation 
following their complaint about  the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
2011.
background
In 2011, Mr and Mrs T complained that Firstplus mis-sold  them a PPI policy.  Firstplus  
investigated the complaint and thought it should  be upheld. It offered to pay them £4,794.53 
for the payments they made towards the PPI policy, and £1,466.66 to compensate them  for 
the time theyd been out of pocket.
Mr and Mrs T say they never  received  this money.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs T tried to complain about  the PPI again.  Firstplus said that as theyd 
already paid them compensation in 2011 it didnt need to pay them anything further. Mr and 
Mrs T say they never received the cheque, so they referred the case  to us.
Our adjudicator investigated the complaint, but didnt think Firstplus needed to pay Mr and 
Mrs T anything. Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with the adjudicator. So the complaint has been 
referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a complaint  about the sale of PPI is upheld, I expect the business to put the customer  
in the position theyd  be in if they hadnt bought  the policy.
Firstplus thinks its done this. It says that in 2011 it upheld  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint, and 
offered to pay them compensation. It says it sent Mr and Mrs T cheques  in February 2012, 
and these were cashed.
Mr and Mrs T say they never  received  these  cheques, and they must have been paid to 
someone else.
As theres  a disagreement about  what happened, I have to decide whats most  likely based 
on the evidence  Ive seen.
Firstplus has sent us a copy of one of the cheques that its bankers received  through the 
clearing system. I see this is payable to Mr and Mrs T, and is crossed A/C payee. This 
means it could only be paid into an account in the joint names of Mr and Mrs T. Based  on 
the copy of the cheque, this was paid into a bank account in February 2012.
But Mr and Mrs T say they didnt have an account with the bank that collected the cheque  
though they did open one with that bank later.
So Ive thought about what  Mr and Mrs T have said alongside the other information I have 
about this complaint.
Ref: DRN42591522I think Mr and Mrs T knew Firstplus wanted  to make them an offer in 2011.  Firstplus has sent 
us copies of the letters  it sent them in 2011 and 2012. I see these are correctly addressed, 
and in two cases   when Firstplus sent Mr and Mrs T an acceptance form, and asked them  
to send in copies of their identity documents  Mr and Mrs T replied. 
The acceptance form explained how much Firstplus planned to pay Mr and Mrs T, and said 
that on receipt the refund would be processed  within 6 to 8 weeks. This acceptance  form is 
signed. Ive also seen a copy of the covering letter from Mr and Mrs Ts solicitors, who 
forwarded the acceptance to Firstplus. This says that the solicitors had put Firstpluss  
decision to Mrs and Mr T and that Mr and Mrs T had accepted  their decision. 
After this, Firstplus wrote  to Mr and Mrs T to ask them to send copies of their identity 
documents  and I see Mr and Mrs T returned  these.
So based  on what Ive seen, Mr and Mrs T knew that they were due to receive  a large  sum 
of money, and were  replying to correspondence from Firstplus. If they didnt then receive  the 
money, Im surprised they didnt mention it at the time. And Ive seen a cheque,  made out to 
Mr and Mrs T, was presented for payment.
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs T. But based  on all the 
evidence I think its most  likely  that they received  and cashed the cheques in 2012.  All the 
information from the time suggests the cheques were paid, and I cant  say this didnt happen 
based just on what Mr and Mrs T said over six years later.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4259152