K821x#15complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the treatment she has received from Southern Pacific  Mortgage 
Limited (SPML) while she has been  in long-term financial difficulties. She feels  the charges 
which have been  added  to her account are excessive and she questions SPMLs overall 
conduct, including whether it acted  fairly  by taking possession  proceedings against  her.
background
Miss S took out a mortgage with SPML in 2007,  on an interest  only basis. Since then she 
has struggled to meet  her payments several times, often due to changes in her employment. 
Her mortgage has been in arrears for many years and SPML  has, on some  occasions, 
decided to take legal action as a result of this.
In September  2011 SPML  got a suspended  possession order  (SPO) against Miss S. This 
required her to make her contractual monthly  payment (CMP)  plus an initial payment of £80, 
and then an additional £42 towards  repaying her arrears,  each  month. Miss S, for the most 
part, kept up these  payments and the arrears  were cleared by 2014.
Miss Ss circumstances changed  in July 2015.  She told SPML  at the time she wasnt  working  
because of an injury  at work. She was receiving a much lower income and was later signed  
off work by her GP. She started a new job in August 2015, but due to other issues such  as 
being paid late and losing her temporary  job, she was only able to make token payments as 
and when she could.
An arrangement for Miss S to make her CMP plus an additional £71.22 each month  was set 
in May 2016.  Miss S was unable to make this payment in full in June 2016 due to a problem 
with her pay. Following  some discussions with Miss S, SPML reset  this arrangement  in July 
2016. But, after a couple of months this arrangement was broken. Miss S later told SPML 
she had left her job in September 2016.
In the months  that followed Miss S missed several  monthly payments, increasing  her arrears 
to just over £1,800  in January 2017.  As SPML had been unable  to reach Miss S to discuss  
this further, it decided to take possession proceedings against her. Miss S called to set an 
arrangement on 24 March 2017  to stop the upcoming court hearing. SPML took details of 
her income and expenditure but it said shed need  to make an initial  payment of £516.26. 
Miss S was unable to do this, and an agreement wasnt reached.  SPML  was granted a new 
SPO against Miss S, requiring her to pay her CMP plus £80 each  month towards the arrears. 
In January 2018 Miss S explained to SPML that shed lost her job. SPML later considered 
details of her income and expenditure. It put in place an arrangement  for no payment to be 
made for one month, with payments of the CMP plus £80 required after that.
Miss S met this arrangement until November 2018, when she told SPML  shed lost her job. 
SPML asked  her to keep it informed and in January  2019  she told it she was starting a new 
job. 
In February 2019  SPML  decided to take further court action. Miss S contacted  SMPL to 
complain when she got a letter from its solicitors. SPML asked her to provide details of her 
income and expenditure, so it could see what options were available.  Miss S told SPML on 
27 February 2019 that she was seeking  help from a debt advice  charity.
Ref: DRN41928352Miss S made some payments in February and March 2019,  but these were  for around half of 
her CMP.  She contacted  SPML  on 15 March 2019 to let it know  shed made an application 
to the court.  She felt it had been heavy  handed.  SPML asked Miss S to complete a budget  
sheet so it could  try and help her. She said she was unable to do this at the time.
An SPO  was granted by the court a short time later. This said that Miss S needed to pay the 
CMP plus an additional £80 each month,  to reduce the arrears.  The first payment under this 
order was required in April 2019.  But Miss S told SPML  she was having problems getting  
paid and wouldnt be able to meet it. She made a token payment of £50.
SPML responded to Miss Ss concerns on 9 April 2019. It said solicitors were acting on its 
behalf and they would  send letters about  the action being taken. SPML apologised for not 
sending her a letter  when an arrangement was set up. And it said, in summary, it was 
entitled to take further court action when the arrears balance was £995.08.
Our investigator didnt  think we could consider some parts of Miss Ss complaint. She was 
unhappy with the conclusions our investigator had reached.  So, an ombudsman  considered  
her complaint and set out his decision on what we can and cant investigate. My decision 
addresses the merits of the parts of Miss Ss complaint the ombudsman said we can 
consider. 
Our investigator looked at the merits of Miss Ss complaint. In summary, he felt SPML  acted 
fairly and reasonably by adding fees and charges to Miss Ss account; including arrears  
management fees, alternative  payment  fees and buildings insurance charges. He noted 
SPML had made an offer to refund some of those  fees and set this out to Miss S. He 
considered Miss Ss concerns about SPML pursuing  court  action and felt it had acted fairly, 
considering the way in which Miss S had conducted  her account. And he felt SPML had 
made a fair offer to compensate her for not sending a letter  to her about a payment 
arrangement.
As Miss S is unhappy with the outcome our investigator reached, her complaint  came to me 
to review afresh.
my provisional decision
On 13 July 2020 I issued a provisional decision.  In it I explained  to both parties  why I thought  
part of Miss Ss complaint (about fees and charges) should be upheld.  I also set out what I 
thought needed to happen now to resolve this part of the complaint. Below is an extract of 
that document:
my provisional findings
Ive thought very carefully about everything  Miss S and SPML have said.  Ive also reviewed 
all the information  thats been provided  by both parties. Having looked  at the evidence 
currently available to me, my findings   while similar for some  parts   are different to those 
reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Arrears management  fees and alternative repayment fees
Ive reviewed the transaction history of Miss Ss account from July 2011 onward. And I can 
see many  alternative repayment  fees (ARF) and arrears management fees (AMF)  have been 
Ref: DRN41928353applied. Some of these  fees have previously  been refunded by SPML, so I dont need to 
consider those further. But I have looked  at the remaining ARFs and AMFs, and I think there  
is more SPML should do to put things  right for Miss S. 
Lenders are entitled under the mortgage terms to apply fees and charges, to cover  the 
additional cost of administering a mortgage  account including  when its in arrears. These 
charges are usually set out in a separate tariff of charges as they were  in Miss Ss case.
But this isnt the only thing to be considered. Lenders also have a duty to treat their 
customers fairly and reasonably.
The ARFs were applied  when Miss S made  a payment  by a method other than one specified 
within the mortgage terms. SPML was entitled  to charge an ARF in those circumstances. 
And Im persuaded extra work was required by SPML when  a payment was made in this 
way. 
I can see that SPML last charged Miss S an ARF in March 2017. It appears  SPML  no longer 
charges this fee to its borrowers.  But this isnt retrospective. And for the reasons Ive 
explained above, overall, I dont  think SPML acted unfairly or unreasonably  when applying 
these fees.
Ive thought carefully about the AMFs SPML has applied, which it hasnt already refunded. 
There are some which I think should  be refunded as I dont think  they are fair.
Following our involvement SPML has offered to refund the following AMFs to Miss S:
Date applied Amount of fee
8 April 2016 £70
8 January 2017 £70
8 March  2017 £55
8 February 2019 £35
8 March  2019 £35
I agree  with SPML that these AMFs should  be refunded. I dont intend to go into detail about 
why I agree to each  refund. However,  as an example,  Miss S made more  than her CMP in 
March 2017 but was still charged an AMF. I think this is unfair as Miss S was clearly trying to 
bring things  back on track.  And charging  a fee where she has done that seems rather 
counterproductive. 
There are other times where SPML has charged  AMFs  where  I also think it was unfair  to do 
so. It applied an AMF of £95 in September 2011,  when it had instructed solicitors  to recover 
the mortgage debt. By doing  this I think SPML was charging twice  for the work being carried 
out to recover the debt.  And I dont think thats fair or reasonable. An AMF was also applied 
in February 2017,  under  similar  circumstances where solicitors were  already  involved, and 
costs were incurred. So, I think both fees should  be refunded.
In August  2015  Miss S made her full CMP. But SPML charged her an AMF of £70. I think  
this is unfair  as it seems  unlikely SPML incurred additional costs in this month. And, as Ive 
set out above,  as she was trying to bring things back on track, I dont think charging  a fee in 
this situation is reasonable.
Ref: DRN41928354I have noted that two referral to solicitors fees were charged  in January 2017. It seems  
SPML instructed  solicitors to take court action but put this on hold due to a complaint being  
received. It re-instructed  its solicitors a few days later and applied another  fee for this. 
SPMLs contact notes show that a request  was to be made to reverse  the initial instruction 
fee. But I cant see this has been  done.  I dont think its fair to charge Miss S twice for this 
and Ive seen  no evidence that an additional cost was incurred by continuing the initial  
instruction a few days later.
In summary  then, I intend to direct SPML to refund these fees and charges, along with any 
associated interest.
Buildings insurance charges
SPML has charged  buildings  insurance costs to Miss Ss mortgage account several times, 
since 27 March 2011. Miss S feels this wasnt required as buildings  insurance is covered by 
the freeholder  of her leasehold property.
Under the terms of Miss Ss mortgage SPML is entitled to include her property in its own 
buildings insurance  arrangements,  and to charge Miss S for doing so, unless Miss S can 
show SPML  that she had her own insurance  in place.
I can see that each  time SPML began the process of arranging their own cover,  Miss S was 
able to provide  evidence  there was already insurance in place.  Because of this, SPML  
agreed to refund the costs  which had been  added. 
SPML initially decided a cancellation  fee charged  in June 2012 (£50) and insurance 
premiums charged in March 2014  (£159) should remain on Miss Ss account, as she 
provided evidence  of her freeholders  insurance too late. But I can see SMPL has since  
refunded these amounts. I think thats a fair way to put things right,  in relation to these costs. 
And so, there isnt anything further  I intend  to say it should  do about this.
Customer service  and support provided generally  by SPML
Miss S has concerns generally about the way SPML  has treated her over the years.  To 
summarise, shes  said it has been unhelpful, rude and has sometimes  caused unnecessary  
distress.
I can see numerous conversations have taken  place over the years,  along with some written 
correspondence. Ive not seen any evidence  SPML  was deliberately being unhelpful or rude, 
although I can see that sometimes Miss S made it clear to SPML she felt this was the case. 
And at times she decided  to end the call as a result.
Miss S has told us she was unhappy with the service  shed  received and felt she was being 
blocked on 8 February  2018 when she tried to call SPML with a budget  sheet. But I can see 
that when she initially called to provide details of her income  and expenditure, SPML offered 
to arrange a call back from the relevant team as they werent available  to take her call at that 
time. Miss S didnt wish to provide a phone number so this wasnt arranged. However, I can 
see that when  she called  back later that day, an arrangement was agreed.  Miss S met this 
arrangement until later in 2018 when she had lost her job.
Ref: DRN41928355Its not unusual  that sometimes  a department within a business  may be unavailable to take a 
call. SPML  offered a solution to Miss S which was to arrange  a call back. And I dont think  
thats unreasonable. I can appreciate  Miss S doesnt  wish to provide her phone number to 
SPML  and to be clear, Im not suggesting  she should. However, I think  that left limited  
options of how it could help her at this time. She was able to speak to the relevant  team  later 
the same  day and a way forward  was agreed. So, overall, there isnt anything else I would 
expect SPML to have  done at the time.
Ive thought carefully about the support  and forbearance SPMLs  offered to Miss S during the 
time she has been in financial difficulties. Miss S has kept in touch with it about her financial 
circumstances, updating it when things changed in her circumstances affecting her ability to 
maintain the mortgage.
On several occasions  SPML asked Miss S to provide details of her income and expenditure 
to see what it could  do to help. This is something  Id expect it to do, before agreeing  to 
provide a concession,  such  as a payment arrangement  to ensure its affordable  for its 
borrower. Often Miss S said shed call SPML back to provide  this information. But when she 
didnt, SPML couldnt reasonably consider what options would be available  to her in her 
individual circumstances.
When Miss S did provide details of her income  and expenditure  to SPML,  I can see payment 
arrangements were reached. I think this shows  that SPML was trying  to help Miss S bring 
things back on track.  Unfortunately, I note Miss S wasnt always  able to maintain these 
arrangements, due to her employment circumstances  changing afterwards.
Miss S questions why SPML didnt  offer her other  concessions, including  a payment holiday 
or accepting  a lower  payment for a period of time. But I dont think these options  would have  
helped Miss S given  her circumstances  and her long-term arrears  position is likely to have  
got worse. 
When Miss S provided details of her income and expenditure to SPML, Im satisfied it 
worked with her to try and help. And, overall, I dont think SPML has been unfair or 
unreasonable in terms of the customer service and support it has given to Miss S. 
Recent recovery action,  including  court  proceedings
Ive looked at the position of the account  each time SPML has taken Miss S to court  since 
July 2011. In September 2011  I can see her account  was several  months in arrears  and 
there wasnt any engagement from Miss S at that time to suggest her position  would  
improve. 
In January 2017, when SPML began court action again, the arrears were  more substantial. 
SPML tried to discuss the matter with Miss S many times but was unable to. Miss S did 
contact it a few days before the court hearing  to see if an arrangement could be set. And I 
can see she made two payments to her account  in March 2017.  But as no agreement had 
been reached for a way forward, and the position of the account was gradually getting 
worse, I dont  think it was unfair  for SPML to continue with this court hearing.
Miss S complains  particularly  about the more  recent  litigation and recovery  action in 2019. At 
the time SPML decided to begin  this action, Miss S was around five months  in arrears. And 
her last payment  made around  two months before, was for less than half of the CMP.
Ref: DRN41928356Miss S told SPML she lost her job in November 2018. SPML asked her to keep it informed 
and the notes show she called them again  on 11 January  2019  to tell them she was starting 
a new job. She said shed be able to make  a payment in two weeks  time and would look to 
make a further payment a week after that.
SPML reviewed the position of the account just over a month later.  No payments  had been  
made and it hadnt  received further  contact from Miss S. So, it decided to go ahead  with the 
court action. Miss S called  a few days later after receiving a letter  from SPMLs  solicitors 
about this. 
In the phone calls that followed,  SPML asked Miss S to provide  details  of her income and 
expenditure, so they could try to reach  an arrangement. She did provide some  information 
after seeking  advice  from a debt charity. But SPML told her they couldnt set an arrangement 
based on that, as the information was unclear.  They asked her to provide  further  details so 
they could try and put an arrangement in place. But as it was unable to do so, the court 
hearing went ahead, and an SPO  was granted.
Ive considered what Miss S has said about the amount of her arrears  and the equity she 
has in her property. But I must  also consider the wider circumstances, including  her account 
conduct. And, having done that, I dont think SPML acted unfairly by taking court action.   
I appreciate this must have been  an upsetting time for Miss S. I do not underestimate the 
worry the potential  loss of her home  must have caused. And I know what  Ive said is likely to 
come as a disappointment  to her. Going forward, I would strongly suggest she carries on 
communicating with SPML,  including providing details of her income  and expenditure when 
requested. This should enable it to consider what options are available  to her, where this is 
necessary.
Id also expect SPML to treat Miss S in line with the guidance the Financial Conduct 
Authority has issued  about how to treat its customers who are affected  by the coronavirus 
epidemic fairly. And Miss S may also wish to take advice  from an independent financial 
adviser.
my provisional decision
Subject to further  information from either party I intend to uphold  this complaint in part 
against Southern Pacific  Mortgage Limited. I plan to direct Southern  Pacific  Mortgage 
Limited to refund the fees and charges (set out in the table below) along with any associated  
interest. 
Date Applied Type of Fee/Charge Amount
8 September 2011 AMF £95
8 August  2015 AMF £70
8 April 2016 AMF £70
8 January 2017 AMF £70
23 January 2017 Solicitors referral  fee £90
8 February 2017 AMF £70
8 March 2017 AMF £55
8 February 2019 AMF £35
Ref: DRN419283578 March 2019 AMF £35
developments
SPML replied to my provisional decision to say it agreed the August 2015 AMF and the 
January 2017  solicitors  referral fee should be refunded. But it disagreed  that the September  
2011 and February  2017  AMFs should be refunded.  It said,  in summary, that it incurred its 
own costs while working simultaneously with the instructed solicitors. And that the AMFs are 
to cover its own costs, not those  of the solicitor,  which it has to pay separately.
Miss S responded initially to say she didnt  accept my provisional  findings. Shes since said 
shed like the matter  to be resolved as soon as possible, in order to receive the refund of 
fees and charges I had set out in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  SPML and Miss Ss 
recent submissions,  to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, I see no reason to alter my conclusions  for the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, SPML applied an AMF in September 2011 and in 
February 2017, both times under similar circumstances. On those occasions, it had also 
instructed its solicitors to recover  the mortgage  debt.  And my thoughts  remain that, while  
SPML may also have  been engaging directly with Miss S during the same period  as its 
solicitors, it isnt fair for the AMF  to be applied when solicitors costs  were also charged.
I understand what SPML has told us, that it sent Miss S correspondence and was working 
with her and its solicitor  both in September 2011  and in February  2017. But I dont think  
charging her a fee along with additional solicitors costs is in the spirit of helping  her to bring  
things back on track.  And so, my thoughts remain that applying these two charges  was 
unreasonable, in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part against Southern Pacific Mortgage 
Limited. I direct Southern  Pacific Mortgage Limited to refund the fees and charges (set out in 
the table below)  along with any associated interest  that has accrued to those fees and 
charges on the mortgage account.
I direct  that Southern  Pacific Mortgage  Limited pay those fees, charges and accrued interest 
within 28 days of Miss S accepting this decision. If it makes payment later than that date, it 
should also pay simple  interest on the total amount due at the rate of 8% a year. 
If Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited considers its required by HM Revenue  and Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest  it pays Miss S, it should tell Miss S how much  its taken  
off. It should  also give Miss S a tax deduction certificate so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue and Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
Ref: DRN41928358Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Date Applied Type of Fee/Charge Amount
8 September 2011 AMF £95
8 August  2015 AMF £70
8 April 2016 AMF £70
8 January 2017 AMF £70
23 January 2017 Solicitors referral  fee £90
8 February 2017 AMF £70
8 March 2017 AMF £55
8 February 2019 AMF £35
8 March 2019 AMF £35
Ref: DRN4192835