K821x#15complaint
Mr P had a branded  policy  of car insurance administered by Eldon Insurance Services Ltd 
(Eldon) which rebranded as Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited (Somerset). Mr P 
complains that after an accident, he was directed to an Accident Management Company 
(AMC) without being informed of all the consequences.  Ive referred to Somerset throughout 
this decision for the sake of ease, although Mr P was actually dealing with Eldon at the time.
background
In December 2018, Mr Ps wife was involved in an accident which wasnt her fault. Mr P 
telephoned Somerset, informing them of the incident. Somerset suggested  he use the AMC 
because it was a non-fault  accident. And, he says, Somerset did this without adequately 
explaining this would  mean  him entering into a credit hire agreement with the AMC. And then 
the AMC recovering the cost of a hire car and repairs from the third party  insurer.
When he was contacted by the AMC, Mr P was told hed need to sign a credit  hire 
agreement. But Mr P didnt want to do this, because he didnt want  to take the risk that the 
AMC wouldnt be able to recover  everything  from the third party  insurer  and he would end up 
paying himself. He also didnt want to enter into a finance agreement. So, he contacted  
Somerset to complain and he went on to deal with the third party insurer directly.
Mr P also complained about Somersets complaint process and the lack of clarity provided 
by their staff about the company structure and the identity of his insurer.
In their final response letter in January 2019,  Somerset said that with a non-fault accident of 
this sort, customers were given a choice. They could be dealt with by Somerset and claim 
under their own policy and pay the policy excess. Or they could be referred to Somersets 
AMC, which would deal with repair and provide a credit hire vehicle, making a claim against 
the third party  insurer.  Somerset said they referred Mr P to the AMC because it was a non-
fault accident. And because Mr P had chosen to go to the AMC, Somerset was no longer 
involved with his claim. Somerset  explained  that the AMCs conditions for vehicle  hire are 
based on a standard industry  approach. And they said theyd handled Mr Ps case  
appropriately so didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr P complained to us and his complaint was investigated by one of our investigators,  who 
was originally an adjudicator. 
In his initial view in February 2019, our investigator  thought Somerset had dealt  with Mr Ps 
complaint in a reasonable way. He said that issues with the AMC, Mr Ps chosen  option, fell 
outside our jurisdiction. As did Somersets complaint handling. And, although he could 
appreciate Mr Ps confusion as to who his insurer was, and in what  capacity Somerset were 
acting, he felt this was clear enough  in his policy documents.  And he felt Somerset had 
made reasonable attempts to make Mr P aware of this.
Mr P disagreed. Because  he told us that in his first contact with Somerset,  the call handler  
had steered him towards  the AMC option as the standard process for non-fault cases.  And 
the call handler  had recommended the AMC because it was a "free  service. He wasnt told 
hed be required to sign a credit hire and finance  agreement and might be liable for any 
shortfall. And if hed known this, hed have declined that option.  He also said we were wrong 
to say complaint  handling is outside our jurisdiction. And he reiterated  that various agents at 
Somerset had given him confusing and contradictory information.
Ref: DRN46333792Our investigator then sent out a further assessment. He explained in this that we could look 
into Mr Ps complaint about  the customer service and information Mr P had received. He 
said that during  his first call Mr P had made about  the accident, Somersets call handler 
didnt inform him of his options adequately, or fully explain the consequences of choosing 
the AMC. And he didnt  explain that if he claimed under his own policy  and paid his excess, 
Mr P could claim this back. He also thought  the information provided  to Mr P about 
Somersets complaints  procedure and company structure was contradictory  and confusing. 
So, the investigator thought Mr P should receive £100 for the distress and inconvenience  
hed experienced.
Mr P had, by this time,  also complained that his insurance credit agreement  for the 
instalment plan showed on his credit file in the name of a consumer finance  company. He 
feels this is confusing, as it comes  out his bank  account under  the trading name Somerset 
uses to provide his policy. Hes also unhappy  that Somerset didnt make it clear there would 
be a record of this finance agreement on his credit file. The investigator didnt think  
Somerset had acted unreasonably,  as he felt Somerset had explained the process for the 
credit to enable him to pay by instalments.
Mr P disagrees with the investigators assessment of his complaint, so the case has come  to 
me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive listened to Mr Ps first notification of loss call to Somerset shortly after the accident. After 
hed heard that the accident  was non-fault, the call handler told Mr P he can choose to 
remain with them and pay his excess  but he immediately raised what  he called their non-
fault procedures. He said that Mr Ps own cover  always remained an option,  but I dont think 
the call handler  explained  the options clearly. I think  he just hurried Mr P along  and 
recommended he use the AMC.
And while the call handler didnt say it was a free service, he did say that Mr P could treat 
it as a free service because if it was a non-fault claim then all Mr Ps costs would eventually  
be recovered from the third party insurer. But I dont think this distinction was made clear to 
Mr P. And at no point  did the call handler say that Mr P would be expected to take out a 
credit hire and finance agreement if he did go with the AMC option.
So, I dont think the call handler informed Mr P of his options  clearly and objectively. And he 
didnt adequately explain the consequences of choosing the AMC. And I dont think  this was 
an appropriate level of service and it clearly caused Mr P some unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. 
I also agree  some of Somersets staff werent clear on the structure  of the company  and the 
fact that the policy  was sold under  a brand  name, but all the services around  the sale and 
administration of the policy, and advice about how to make a claim under the policy, are 
provided by Somerset.  Again, I think this was a poor level of service and caused Mr P further 
distress and inconvenience.
In respect of Mr Ps concerns about  his credit file, I dont  think  its clear enough in 
Somersets terms of business  that there  will be a record of the finance agreement  on the 
credit file, although the terms do say the finance is provided by a particular consumer 
Ref: DRN46333793finance company.  But I dont  think the information  provided on this was clear and fair and not 
misleading, in accordance  with the principles  under  which Somerset have  to operate.  So, I 
think this caused  Mr P further  unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience.
Overall, I think £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr P experienced 
as a result  of these  three service failings  is appropriate.
Mr P has also complained about  the way Somerset  handled his complaint and the lack of 
clarity in their complaints process.  However,  despite  what Mr P may have been told, 
complaints specifically about  complaint handling and complaints processes are not within 
our jurisdiction. This is because we can only consider complaints that are about  a financial 
service and complaint  handling is not a financial  service. This has been  considered  by the 
courts.1
This means  I am unable to consider Mr Ps concerns about the way Somerset handled his 
complaint and their staffs  failure to understand and explain  their complaint process.
the response to my provisional  decision
Mr P accepted my provisional decision. Somerset  said they had nothing to add. So, now the 
case has been passed back to me to for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
In view of the response to my provisional  decision,  Ive no reason to depart from the findings 
Ive already reached in this case. So, my decision remains the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps 
complaint and direct that Somerset  pay him £200  in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman
1 R (Mazarona  Properties Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service  [2017] EWHC 1135 (Admin).
Ref: DRN4633379