K820x#14complaint
Ms A says she was mis-sold a regular  premium payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  
by Bank  of Scotland Plc (BOS).
background
Ms A took out a loan with BOS in 1997. At the same time she took out a regular premium 
PPI policy  to cover her repayments if she was unable to work due to accident  or sickness  or 
lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld because  she didnt think there
was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented  as optional and thought
that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Ms A.  
Ms A disagrees. She says she didnt  even know she had PPI. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Ms As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms As complaint.
The sale took place  over 20 years ago so unsurprisingly  there  is very little information
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis  of what  information
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
BOS needed to make it clear to Ms A that she had a choice in taking the policy. 
Ms A hasnt provided much detail about  when she took out her loan and cant remember  
anything about  the sale of PPI which is understandable considering the amount of time that 
has passed. And BOS  havent given us any of the documents  from the time of the sale.  So I 
dont know exactly what was discussed about  PPI or how it was presented.
But from what I know about BOSs  sales process  at the time,  I think  its likely that it wouldve
made Ms A aware that PPI was optional and that Ms A had PPI because  she chose to take 
it. Ive not seen enough to say that she wasnt  given a choice  or that she didnt agree to buy 
it.
BOS is treating the sale as if it advised  Ms A to take the policy  this puts her in the best 
position. What  this means is that BOS not only had to provide information  about PPI in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way so that Ms A could make an informed  choice about  buying 
PPI. It also had to make  sure that if it was to recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for 
Ms As needs and circumstances.
I dont know if BOS  did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable
recommendation for Ms A for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN42732082She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like she wouldve been caught by
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve
made it difficult to make  a successful claim.
Ms A says she was entitled to sick pay and could use savings and redundancy pay to 
make her repayments  if she couldnt  work.  The policy wouldve paid out on top of any 
work benefits and savings and for potentially  longer, covering her for up to 12 months  
if she lost her job and for the duration of her loan if she was unable  to work due to 
accident or sickness.
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Ms A in her circumstances 
especially considering  the loan was secured  on her property. Given the implications if 
she was unable to meet her repayments I think Ms A wouldve been  interested in 
protecting them.
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Ms A at the time.  
And if she decided she no longer wanted the policy  she could cancel it.
I also need to consider  whether BOS  gave Ms A information in a way which  was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that she could make  a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the policy  out. 
I dont know if BOS  did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same  reasons  that 
the policy was suitable and based on what Ms A has told us about  her circumstances at the 
time, I think she wouldve  still taken out the PPI policy  if shed been  given all the proper 
information.
This means  that BOS hasnt done anything wrong and I wont  be upholding Ms As 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Ms As complaint against 
Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4273208