K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Zenith Insurance plc has refused to meet  his claim on his mobile phone  
insurance policy.
background
In February 2019,  Mr C made a claim on his mobile  phone insurance policy. As part of its 
investigation into the claim, Zenith  asked him for proof of ownership of the phone.
As the proof  of ownership Mr C provided was in his friends name, rather  than his own, 
Zenith refused  to meet the claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why below.
The terms of Mr As policy say that he must be able to provide evidence of ownership of the 
phone from when the policy started, and that this evidence must be in his name or he must 
be in possession of a gift receipt. I dont think this is unreasonable,  as insurance policies like 
this will usually only cover  items that belong  to the policyholder.
Mr A sent Zenith a copy of a gift receipt for the phone,  but this was in his friends  name and 
Mr A wasnt  mentioned anywhere on the receipt.
During our investigation, Mr A has sent us proof  the phone has been blocked and proof of 
usage of the phone from the network provider, but these were also in his friends name, not 
his. And he sent us emails from the network  provider saying a transfer  of ownership of the 
phone was in progress. But these emails were  from after Zenith  refused to meet  the claim, 
so dont show Mr A owned the phone when the policy started or when the claim was made.
Mr A also sent us a letter, signed by his friend, saying the phone had been bought on behalf  
of Mr A. And Mr A sent us copies  of bills from the network provider and statements showing  
corresponding payments to the provider going  out of his bank account. But the name on the 
bills has been blacked out so I cant see if they are in Mr As name.  And, given the other  
evidence, I dont think the letter from his friend and the bank statements are enough to say 
that Mr A owns the phone.
So I think Zenith has acted reasonably  in refusing to meet  the claim.
As its not satisfied Mr A owns the phone and so it wouldnt have  met any claim, Zenith has 
now cancelled the policy and refunded all of the premiums Mr A paid for it. And I think this is 
fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN45261852my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020. 
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4526185