K820x#14complaint
Ms B is unhappy with what  The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc propose  to do to put things right 
following her complaint about  the sale of payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Ms B says RBS mis-sold PPI alongside two personal loans that she took out in 2001 and 
2002.
RBS investigated  her complaint and thought it should be upheld.
But in 2003,  Ms B had granted a trust deed  under Scottish insolvency law. RBS says that 
because of this her accounts  closed with an outstanding balance  so it paid the 
compensation towards the amounts Ms B hadnt  repaid when the accounts  closed.
Ms B disagreed with this. She says that when the trust deed came  to an end in March 2007, 
she was discharged from her debts.  She says that when this happened,  she was released 
from any obligations she had to her creditors. So she thinks  the redress should be paid to 
her  and so she referred the complaint to us. 
I issued a provisional decision on 6 August 2019. A copy  of the provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  My provisional decision sets out the 
background to this complaint, and explains why I thought that what RBS proposed to do was 
fair. I said Id consider  any more comments and information Id get by 6 September.
Ms B has confirmed that shes received my provisional decision. She doesnt agree with my 
conclusions but says she has nothing further  to add. RBS has replied to say they have 
nothing further  that it wishes  to add in relation to this complaint.
So Ive considered the complaint again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this outcome is disappointing to Ms B. But for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision, I dont think it would be fair to make RBS pay Ms B the PPI 
compensation directly  bearing in mind the very large sums she didnt  have to repay  thanks to 
the trust deed   that RBS cant now recover.
So having  considered what both Ms B and RBS have said,  I reach the same findings as in 
my provisional decision for the same reasons. And so I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI 
compensation to reduce the amount that Ms B didnt have to repay when her trust deed 
ended.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I think  its fair for 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to use Ms Bs PPI compensation to reduce what she didnt 
have to repay when  Ms Bs trust deed  ended. So I dont make  any further award.
Ref: DRN45736332Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN45736333copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Ms B is unhappy with what The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc has done to put thing right following her 
complaint about the sale of payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
RBS sold Ms B PPI policies alongside two personal loans in 2001 and 2002. The cost of each policy 
was added  to each loan  and Ms B had to repay the extra shed borrowed, with interest,  as part of 
her monthly  loan repayments.
Ms B thinks the policies were mis-sold.
RBS investigated Ms Bs complaint and thought it should be upheld.  It offered to refund  the PPI 
premiums and extra  interest Ms B had paid to date,  together with simple interest to compensate Ms B 
for the time shed been  out of pocket. Ms B signed acceptance forms to say she agreed with these 
offers.
But in 2003 Ms B had granted a trust deed under Scottish insolvency law. RBS says that because  of 
this, her accounts closed with an outstanding balance   and so it paid the compensation towards  the 
amounts that Ms B hadnt  repaid when  the accounts closed.
Ms B disagreed  with this. She says she was discharged  from her debts  in March  2007 when her trust 
deed came  to an end. She says that, when  this happened, she was released from any obligations she 
had to her creditors. She thinks the redress should be paid to her  and so she referred the complaint  
to us.
Our adjudicator looked  at the complaint and thought that what RBS had done was fair. Ms B didnt 
agree with the adjudicator. So the complaint has been referred to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
As RBS has upheld Ms Bs complaint about  whether the PPI was mis-sold, Ive just looked at whether  
what its done  to put things right is fair. 
The main question  I need to decide is whether  RBS can use Ms Bs compensation  to reduce the debt 
she didnt have to repay after she was discharged from her trust deed.
In this case, RBS worked out that, in total, the compensation was £3,262.97. This includes the extra  
Ms B paid towards  her loan  including  interest. And it includes simple interest  the rate is 8% per 
year  to reflect the time that shed  been out of pocket.
But RBS says that, because Ms B granted a trust deed, her accounts closed  with a balance of 
£14,686.63. And  as Ms B points out too  when her trust deed completed, she didnt have to repay  
this money.
So Ive thought about what this means for Ms Bs complaint.
The rules I must follow  say that when I consider  whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of 
the complaint, Im required to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards; codes of practice, and, where  relevant, what  I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
Ref: DRN45736334In this case the relevant law is Scots law. There have been in recent years a number of cases  looking 
at what  happens to PPI compensation  after a trust deed has come to an end. 
In Dooneen Ltd v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court considered  the effect  of a discharge  
following a final distribution by the trustee.  In that case, the discharge was held to terminate the trust 
which meant that any unrealised assets  were returned to the debtor  including the PPI compensation  
that no one had known about at the time.
In Donnelly v The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC [2017] SAC (Civ) 1, the Sheriff Appeal Court 
considered whether RBS could offset PPI compensation against the amount that hadnt been repaid 
when the trust deed came  to an end. The terms of trust deed in this case meant RBS had, in effect,  
agreed that the debt would be extinguished   and it couldnt later revive  the debt to offset the PPI 
compensation. (I note RBS has appealed this, so the outcome may change.)
I dont know if the terms of Ms Bs trust deed were the same as in the cases above, though I 
understand those terms were used widely  but no longer  used today. But I acknowledge that in some 
cases the Scottish courts might say that a business  needs  to pay PPI compensation to a consumer, 
notwithstanding any amounts that might have gone unpaid when  the trust deed came to an end.
But regardless of the terms of Ms Bs trust deed, in this case, I dont think  such  an outcome would  be 
fair. Ill explain why.
The law and our rules  dont require me to make decisions  in accordance  with Scots law. I dont have  
to make the same award that a court would  make, if I dont think  it would be fair to do so.
Ms B applied for the second  loan in November  2002. She borrowed £15,100,  plus an extra  £3,362 to 
pay for the PPI, over 60 months. Ms B granted the trust deed  in September 2003  10 months later. 
And so by that point she still hadnt repaid most of what  shed borrowed. The trust deed means she 
hasnt had to repay most  of this money  and RBS cant chase her for it. The cost of the PPI was 
added to Ms Bs loans  and so some  of the cost was included in the trust deed.  I think  it would be 
unfair to ignore this when considering whether  any compensation is due for the mis-sale of the PPI.
RBS has now worked out it would have needed to pay Ms B £3,262.97 for mis-selling the PPI. This is 
a lot less than the amount Ms B didnt have to repay thanks to the trust deed.  Given  that, when the 
trust deed ended, RBS effectively agreed  that Ms B didnt have to repay  any of what  was left on her 
loan, I think it would  be particularly unfair to make  them now pay the PPI compensation  to her directly.
Im also mindful  that the only reason  that this compensation would be paid to Ms B now is because 
she didnt realise shed been mis-sold  the PPI until after her trust deed had ended.  
When I decide  a complaint about the sale of PPI should be upheld,  Id tell the business  to put the 
consumer in the financial  position theyd  be in if they hadnt  been sold the policy.
If Ms B hadnt been sold the PPI to begin with, I think its likely  given the amounts  involved  that 
shed still have entered the trust deed, but owed less. This is the position RBSs  offer puts her in. And 
Id normally say it was fair for RBS to deduct any arrears from any redress it offered.
Im also mindful  that had she  or her trustee  realised shed been mis-sold  the PPI while the trust 
deed was active, then RBS would clearly have been entitled to use the compensation  to reduce  what  
she owed it or, alternatively, it could  have been paid to the trustee  for the benefit  of all her creditors. 
She wouldnt have got this money directly. 
So, having considered all the circumstances  of this case, I dont think it would  be fair to require  RBS 
to pay the compensation directly to Ms B.
Ref: DRN45736335should I have  dismissed  the case without considering the merits?
Finally, I note RBS invited  me to dismiss this complaint without considering the merits. This is on the 
grounds that Ms B had already accepted its offer in full and final settlement of the complaint before 
she referred the complaint  to our service.
Ive carefully considered the point RBS made. But I think that when Ms B accepted the offer, she did 
so under the impression that any arrears or relevant account with RBS no longer existed  because 
shed been discharged from these when the trust deed ended. 
Given the legal uncertainty around whether an account survives after a trust deed had ended, I dont 
think RBSs offer made its position sufficiently clear. So I didnt think it was appropriate to dismiss the 
case on that basis.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, I think  its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use Ms Bs compensation  
for mis-sold  PPI to reduce the amount she owed  and didnt repay  when  her trust deed came to an 
end. So based on what  Ive seen so far I dont plan to make a further award.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4573633