K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) havent dealt properly with his chargeback 
request.
background
Mr O complained to us as he was unhappy with the outcome of the chargeback process hed 
raised with HSBC. On 26 December 2018  Mr O asked HSBC to raise a chargeback against 
a third party from whom hed bought a fitted kitchen on a supply only basis. For ease of 
reference Ill call that third party the merchant.  Mr O said the kitchen  supplied  was not as 
described. 
 
Our investigator found HSBC had followed the correct process when raising  the chargeback 
and had tried to take the dispute to the arbitration  stage  which  meant the card scheme 
would decide  on how the dispute was settled  but this was declined.  He also thought  as 
HSBC had taken  the dispute to the furthest possible stage he couldnt say they hadnt 
attempted to support  Mr O and couldnt  have done more to help him on this occasion.  So he 
didnt uphold  this complaint.
Mr O didnt agree. He thought the investigator  had based his judgement on what HSBC had 
told him and that the investigator  had sided with HSBC despite the fact that this concerned 
Mr Os money.  He said the investigator had failed to take into consideration his rights as a 
consumer and the rightful owner of the money.  And he thought this money had been paid 
out despite his objections  that the goods  delivered were not as hed paid for. Mr O told us he 
thought the card scheme rules  a customer is reimbursed for non delivery  of goods and he 
said it was glaringly obvious the merchant  was in the wrong here and hadnt  satisfied their 
part of the deal.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for much  the same reasons.
Banks dont have to process chargeback requests. They are voluntary. But its good practice 
to do so. And unless  there are good reasons we would normally expect banks to process 
them. And thats what HSBC have done here. Most  banks, as card issuers,  wont take the 
chargeback further  if its defended. And we wouldnt expect a bank to get into challenging a 
merchants represent  or defence. But in this case  I can see that HSBC  went  beyond  what  
wed normally expect. In response to further  evidence from Mr O on 1 February  2019, they 
further disputed  the chargeback on 6 February 2019  but this was declined and Mr O was 
notified of this on 25 February  2019. Although I can appreciate that refusal was a 
disappointment to Mr O it was something  over which HSBC had no control.
Its important to say that when this service considers a chargeback complaint about a bank, 
were not deciding whether or not the customer  should have won against  the merchant. I 
realise that Mr O is unhappy with the merchant as he doesnt think the kitchen the merchant 
supplied is as described. But what Im looking at is the dispute between  Mr O and HSBC,  not 
what the merchant  did. And HSBCs job in this was to follow the rules of the chargeback 
scheme  a scheme which  is run by the card scheme company. HSBCs job wasnt  to make 
Ref: DRN42270552a decision on whether or not the kitchen supplied was as described. That was for the card 
scheme.
Theres no guarantee claims made under  the chargeback process will be successful. It all 
depends on what the merchant says in response  to the request  the bank submits.  In this 
case, from the information HSBC have sent to this service Im satisfied they promptly raised  
the chargeback,  followed  the correct procedure, perused the chargeback  as far as they 
could under the scheme rules and kept Mr O informed throughout. So I cant say HSBC  have 
done anything  wrong here.
As Ive explained, Im not required to determine  the underlying dispute between  Mr O and 
the merchant. In this case I think the bank did enough when it attempted  the chargeback and 
later requested to case move to arbitration but, unfortunately,  the merchant successfully 
defended it and the card scheme refused HSBCs request to move  the case  to arbitration.
Mr Os strength of feeling is clear.  But it wouldnt be fair for HSBC to bear the loss Mr O 
claims hes suffered. And I think HSBC did the right thing  by refunding the payment while the 
chargeback was going on and then debiting the money again  once it was defended. And 
from everything Ive seen they explained this procedure to Mr O. 
Given how strongly Mr O feels about what happened he may want to pursue  the matter  
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
his dispute with HSBC informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr O.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4227055