K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement  with 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc (Santander) has not been of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr F took receipt  of a used car in November 2018. He financed the deal through  a 
conditional sale agreement with Santander. At the point of supply the car was a couple of 
years old and had already  completed a little under  16,000  miles.
Mr F had problems  with the car. He says that the dealership promised to remove  a strong 
cigarette smell before he picked the car up. But the following day Mr F had to take the car 
back as the smell was still present. A brief summary  of the issues Mr F has had with the car 
is as follows:
date issue action
23 November 2018 Cigarette smell and seat belt 
fault.Car valeted and smell 
improved. 
December 2018 Seat belt fault being 
reviewed. Drive train 
problem.Seat belt fault fixed. 
Referred to dealer  for drive 
train issue.
January 2019 Drive chain  issue Dealer repaired
February 2019 Oil level low. Drive chain  
error reoccurs. Cigarette  
smell is back.Mr F complains to 
Santander. They arrange 
an independent inspection.
April 2019 Independent inspection. Inspector agrees there  is a 
bad odour in the car. Also 
notes parking sensor arent 
working but cant find a 
problem with the 
performance or 
transmission.
April 2019 Santanders final response. They agree to rectify the 
parking brake issue but not 
the cigarette smell as they 
say this was present when 
Mr F agreed  to accept the 
car and hed therefore 
been aware of it.
Mr F was disappointed with Santanders  response  so he referred his complaint  to this 
service and our investigator provided her opinion. She thought Santander should allow Mr F 
to reject the car. She didnt agree  with their suggestion that hed been  accepting of the 
cigarette smell. She thought hed always made his concerns clear  and that the business had 
failed to rectify the fault. She also noted  that Mr F had to return to the dealership on multiple  
occasions to have the seat belt problem rectified and she didnt  think  this was acceptable  in 
a car that was only two years old. She therefore  suggested Santander allow  Mr F to reject  
the car; terminate his finance agreement and refund  his deposit. She thought it was clear 
hed also been  inconvenienced by matters and had to take his car to be fixed  too frequently.  
So she suggested  that Santander  also pay £150  to compensate Mr F for this inconvenience.
Ref: DRN42948212Santander didnt  agree with the investigators view. So they asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Santander  so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr F acquired his car under a conditional  sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Santander,  who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr F. The car here 
was around two years old and had travelled 15,878  miles.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Santander to put this right.  
Its clear this car smelt of cigarettes from the beginning. I dont think a reasonable person 
would think that was acceptable,  particularly  in a car that was only two years old. Santander 
are right to suggest that the relevant  legislation says we should not consider goods to be 
unsatisfactory if the issue has been  specifically  drawn to the consumers attention before 
the contract  is made (section  9.4 (a) Consumer Rights Act 2015).
But whilst its clear the cigarette smell was drawn to Mr Fs attention  I dont think  he 
accepted it because, if he had, I dont think he would have taken the car back to the 
dealership, the day after he took receipt  of it, to tell them the smell was still present. I think  
that suggests he expected the problem to be resolved before he got the car, but it wasnt.
When something is wrong with a car at the point of supply  the relevant legislation allows  the 
business one chance to repair it. Mr F complained  of a bad smell in the car on day one and 
the car was returned on several occasions. The independent inspector confirmed that the 
business attempts to resolve the problem  had not worked so I would agree with the 
investigator that the repair has failed and Mr F should now be allowed to reject the vehicle.
Ref: DRN42948213And, even  if Im wrong  about  that, I think there  are other reasons to allow  Mr F to reject the 
car. Relevant legislation does not give a business  one chance to repair each separate fault 
that may occur. Whether a vehicle is of satisfactory  quality when supplied  refers to the 
vehicle as a whole not each separate component. Indeed the more separate faults - the 
more likely it is the vehicle  isnt of satisfactory  quality. And here, Mr F has experienced 
problems with the seat belt mechanism  (a fault he says still exists); potentially  a drive chain 
issue and faulty  parking  sensor, all within the first six months of ownership. I think that too 
would lead a reasonable person  to suggest this car has not been of satisfactory quality.
So to resolve the issue  Santander  should terminate the finance agreement and return Mr Fs 
deposit. They should pay interest  on that deposit as Mr F has been deprived  of the money  
whilst funding a car that was of unsatisfactory quality. Id also agree with the investigators 
suggestion on compensation.  Mr F has had to take his car to the dealership  to have repairs 
completed on several occasions  and has also had to pursue his claim through  this service 
and make the car available  for an independent inspection. In the circumstances I think 
Santander should pay him £150 to compensate him for the inconvenience hes experienced. 
Mr Fs use of the vehicle has been  impaired. Hes had several  faults with the car and in the 
circumstances I think Santander should  refund some of the monthly instalments hes paid in 
respect of that lack of use. I would agree with then investigator that, in the circumstances,  
they should refund 10% of payments.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
allow Mr F to reject  the car; terminate the finance agreement  and collect the vehicle 
at no cost to Mr F;
refund  the deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
refund  10% of all payments Mr F has made towards his finance agreement  in respect 
of impaired use;
pay Mr F £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Fs credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4294821