K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E have  complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited has increased the 
cost of their private medical insurance  policy.
 
background
Mr and Mrs E took out the policy in 1997.  The policy  contained a Guaranteed Loyalty Bonus 
(GLB) which effectively promised that Mr and Mrs Es premiums would not increase because 
of their age. The policy  at that time was owned  by another  company.
In 2000, Aviva took over ownership  of the policy.
In late 2018, Aviva sent Mr and Mrs E renewal documents in advance  of the policys renewal 
in January 2019. Mr and Mrs E noted  the premium would increase by 10% compared  to the 
previous year and thus would have increased by around 75% over the past six years. On 
making further enquiries, they noted  that the scheme had become closed to new members 
some years earlier and that an assurance  of lifetime  cover  had been  removed. They  
considered that these  changes had undermined  the policy and the value of the GLB. They  
believed the increases to the premium  were unfair and in contravention of the GLB, 
particularly bearing  in mind that theyd made few claims over the years.  They complained  to 
Aviva.
Aviva didnt uphold  their complaint. It said that it had notified Mr and Mrs E in 2013 that the 
scheme had become closed to new members and had explained  at that time that a notional 
new entrants rate of premium would be calculated  for the purposes of the GLB.  It was 
satisfied that it was continuing to operate the GLB in accordance with the policys terms.  
Mr and Mrs E were  dissatisfied with Avivas  response. They referred  their complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In his opinion, Aviva 
had done nothing wrong.
Mr and Mrs E didnt  accept the adjudicators findings. They  considered that in closing the 
scheme to new members, Aviva  had acted disingenuously and had deliberately undermined 
the value of the GLB. They believed  it had taken this action so it could unfairly  reap the 
reserves built up by policyholders  since it took over the scheme in 2000. They pointed to 
Avivas mission statement  which  they considered implied that all its private medical 
insurance policies  included a No Claims Discount  (NCD) but said theyd received no 
discount on their premiums despite  not making claims. They thought Aviva should refund 
their premiums since 2010 which they understood was when the scheme  became closed to 
new members.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Ref: DRN46114872The case  is difficult because the policy  is an annually renewable contract  to which  Aviva  is 
legally allowed to make  changes each year yet it carries a long-term promise in the form of 
the GLB.
The GLB states:
For as long as the Policy remains in force and the premium applied to each Insured Person 
is paid, each Insured  Person will be charged  the premium applicable to new entrants in the 
age band applied to the Insured Person at their Date of Entry.
Aviva chose to close the scheme to new members, apparently in 2010. In my opinion,  an 
insurers decision to close a scheme  to new entrants would normally  constitute the legitimate 
exercising of its commercial discretion and would therefore be a matter with which this 
service would not normally interfere. However, I have to consider whether,  on this occasion,  
Avivas decision unfairly  prejudiced existing policyholders.
It is true that the closure of the scheme  to new members meant  the average cost of claims 
per policyholder thereafter was likely to rise year on year as the membership  aged.  But the 
GLB did not promise that there  would  be no increases in the premium; it simply promised 
that Mr and Mrs E would pay the same as a new entrant in their age group  when  they joined 
(which was 55-60 for Mr E and 50-54  for Mrs E).
The closure of the scheme also meant  there was no longer a premium  applicable  to new 
entrants to which the premium for existing policyholders could be matched, as described 
under the GLB.  However, Aviva wrote  to Mr and Mrs E in 2013 to explain that it would now 
calculate a notional new entrant rate for the purposes of the guarantee. While  I accept  that 
this notional rate was not subject to the checks of market forces, I must also acknowledge 
that, even if new entrants  were still admitted, the setting of premiums would be another  
matter for the insurers commercial judgement  with which we would not normally interfere. I 
cant therefore reasonably conclude that the use of a notional  rate undermined the value of 
the GLB.
On balance, I consider  it was reasonable for Aviva  to take the decision to close the scheme 
to new members. And while it seems that Aviva may not have notified Mr and Mrs E of this 
decision immediately, I dont think they were disadvantaged by any delay. I say this because 
even when Aviva did inform them of its action, Mr and Mrs E didnt take any action in 
response.
Mr and Mrs E believe Aviva closed the scheme to new members so it could reap the 
reserves built up by policyholders. I understand their concern but I havent seen any 
evidence to support  this. Indeed, I dont  know whether the scheme had built up any reserves  
or whether, conversely,  it had been  running  at a loss. 
Aviva has shown that it has placed its policyholders,  including Mr and Mrs E, into age bands 
based on their age when they first took out the policy and it is this which determines the 
premium which they now pay. At the renewal  in 2019 I can see that it imposed the same 
percentage increase across all age bands.  Im satisfied that it has not discriminated against  
policyholders on the basis  of their age and that it has met the strict terms of the GLB.
Mr and Mrs E have  said that their policy used  to contain an assurance  that it would continue  
for life and that this has since been withdrawn. I havent seen this clause in the policy 
document and Im not convinced that Aviva is obliged to continue  offering a particular 
Ref: DRN46114873product if is it no longer  commercially viable. But in any case, as the adjudicator has pointed  
out, the policy is still currently available to Mr and Mrs E.
Mr and Mrs E have  raised a concern that their policy does not have  an NCD. This is true. 
The policy does not seek to vary an individuals  premiums according to the number or value 
of claims made by that individual.  This might be contrary to the implication in Avivas  mission 
statement (though that statement might  be referring only to policies which  are still open  to 
new entrants). But I cant see that Mr and Mrs E were ever under the impression that their 
policy provided an NCD so I cant say that theyve been misled.
I recognise Mr and Mrs Es concerns and they are by no means the first policyholders  to 
raise concerns over Avivas actions in respect of this particular policy.  However, I cant  
reasonably conclude that the closure of the scheme to new members meant the GLB was 
fundamentally undermined. And even if I thought that Mr and Mrs E were misled  at the time 
of sale about how the scheme might operate in the longer-term, it doesnt necessarily follow 
that they have  been disadvantaged.  I say this because I consider it likely  that they would 
have chosen to take out private  medical  insurance  cover in any case  and I dont know  that 
they have necessarily paid more for their policy over the time they have been under cover 
than they would have paid for a conventional policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4611487