K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that a car supplied  with finance from Black Horse Limited was 
misrepresented to him. He also says the car isnt of satisfactory quality.
background
In April 2017 Mr H was supplied with a car and entered  into a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse.  At the point of supply  the car was approximately 2  years old and had 
covered mileage of 37,854.
In June 2017 Mr H experienced an issue with the air conditioning.  This was repaired under 
warranty.
In March 2018 Mr H experienced issues with the water  pump  and coolant pipes. These were 
repaired under  warranty.
In April 2018 Mr H experienced issues with the fuse box, the timing  chain  and the catalytic 
converter. These were repaired under warranty.
Mr H says the repairing  garage told him that the issues  hed experienced with the car were 
due to poor service  and maintenance history. Following  the repairs, the engine management 
light came  on, the engine  cover was found  to be cracked and there was paint peeling  off in 
an area of previous accident damage.
Mr H complained to Black  Horse in October  2018.  He said the car wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality. He also said the car had been  misrepresented to him at the point of supply because 
the car didnt  have  a full service history.
Black Horse  said it hadnt been  contacted  by Mr H until 18 months after the point of supply.  It 
said there was no evidence that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply 
and noted that repairs  had been  carried out under warranty  at no cost to Mr H.
Mr H wasnt happy with the response so he complained to this service. To resolve his 
complaint he wants his deposit and payment made  to date refunded,  less an amount for 
usage.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint.  She said there  was no evidence  that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  She also said that even if there had been 
a misrepresentation  about the service  history, Mr H hadnt complained about this for 18 
months so it was unlikely  to have been one of the main factors in his decision  to purchase 
the car.
Mr H didnt agree. He said the car was advertised as having  a full service  history and that a 
cars service history  was something which was influential in determining  durability  of the 
engine, which went to the issue of satisfactory quality.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN46774952Satisfactory quality
Because Black Horse supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. I would expect  a second  hand  car to have a degree of wear and tear. So in order to 
uphold this complaint,  I would  need to be satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply  due to an inherent defect rather than general  wear and tear.
Mr H and Black Horse  disagree about  whether  the car was of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. In order  to reach a decision I need to look at all of the available  evidence and 
determine, on the balance of probabilities, whether I think  the car was of satisfactory quality.
Mr M experienced issues with the air conditioning in June 2017  approximately 2 months  after 
the point of supply. The issue was resolved by a repair and hasnt  presented itself again.  
Mr M experienced further issues  in March/April 2018 approximately 11/12  months  after the 
point of supply.  
Where a fault presents itself within 6 months  of the point of supply, its generally up to the 
business to put things  right. After  6 months, the burden of proof  is reversed and its up to the 
consumer to show that the fault was present or developing  at the point of supply. This is 
often shown with an independent engineers report.  In this case, theres no expert evidence 
to show that the faults were present or developing at the point of sale. It would be difficult to 
obtain a report  now to establish  this, because the car has been  repaired and its covered 
additional mileage  since the repairs.
Mr H says that the garage which repaired  the car told him that the faults were due to poor 
service and maintenance history. I havent seen anything from the garage itself to support 
this.
Ive taken into account the fact that the car was over 2 years old at the point of supply and 
with above average  mileage. As cars get older,  its likely that the component parts will need  
repair or replacement  due to wear  and tear. Looking at the nature of the issues with Mr Hs 
car, it seems more likely than not that these issues would have presented  themselves much  
sooner if they had been faults  which were present at the point of supply.
I understand that the car has recently suffered engine failure due to lack of oil. Mr H says 
that, absent an oil leak, the car must  have been  burning excessive oil due to its poor service 
and maintenance  history.  Whilst I am sorry to hear that this has happened, there  isnt 
enough evidence  for me to safely conclude that there was a fault present at the point of 
supply which  caused the car to burn or lose oil. If there had been,  I would  have expected the 
problem to present  itself much sooner, or for any low oil or oil leak to be noticed when the 
car was serviced.
For all of the reasons  Ive explained, Im unable  to conclude that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Misrepresentation
Ref: DRN46774953In order for me to find that there has been  a misrepresentation, I would need to be satisfied 
that an untrue statement of fact was made which induced Mr H to enter into the agreement.
Ive looked at the advertisement for the car. This says that the car has a full service history. 
A full service  history  generally means that there is a complete collection of all repair  and 
maintenance documents with every  service carried out as per the manufacturers 
requirements. 
Ive looked at the service history for the car and I can see that it was serviced in December  
2014 and again in October 2016. The service  interval for the car is every  12 months or 
16,000 miles, whichever  comes first. It looks as if the car shouldve been serviced in 
December 2015.  The supplying dealer has explained  that the electronic service history  has 
only been introduced relatively recently, so its possible that some services  have  been  carried 
out and not recorded  electronically but rather in the service  log or evidenced by invoices. I 
can see that Mr H was asked to provide the service  log for the car but this hasnt been 
received. So I cant  be certain of whether  a service was carried out in December  2015  or not. 
Because of this, I cant be certain that the car had a full service  history  at the point of supply.
If I were  to proceed on the basis that the car didnt  have a full service history at the point  of 
supply, then in order to find that there had been a misrepresentation  I would need  to be 
persuaded that a full service history  was the main reasons (or one of the main reasons) for 
Mr H entering  into the agreement.
If the service history had been one of the main reasons for Mr H entering into the agreement, 
I wouldve  expected  him to check the service history  at the point of supply. Mr H hasnt said 
whether he checked  it or not  but if he had checked  it, and if service  history was important 
to him, then I wouldve expected him to query  any missing services.  As it was, it wasnt  until 
approximately 18 months later that Mr H raised the issue of the service  history with Black  
Horse. Because  of this, Im not satisfied that service history (and in particular, a full service 
history) was one of the main reasons for Mr H entering into the agreement.
I can see that the car was serviced in October 2016, so there was no obligation on the 
supplying dealer to service the car at the point of sale in April 2017. The next service was 
due in October 2017. On the information  available, it doesnt look as if Mr H had the car 
serviced until May 2018, which  was approximately 7 months later than the manufacturers 
recommended service interval.  Even  if some  of the issues with the car were due to a lack of 
servicing (and I cant safely conclude that they were  because of the lack of evidence), then 
Mr H was partly responsible for this as it appears that he failed to have  the car serviced in 
October 2017.
Taking all of the circumstances of the case into account, Im unable to conclude that theres 
been a misrepresentation, because Im not persuaded  that a full service history  was the sole 
or main reason for Mr H entering  into the agreement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Ref: DRN46774954Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4677495