K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Pure Commercial Finance Limited as his broker  led him to believe that 
he would  be successful in applying for a bridging  loan when he bought  a property at auction. 
Mr K wants  PCF to reimburse his costs  and pay him compensation.
background
Mr K bought a property  at auction  in March 2019.  Mr K then applied for a mortgage with a 
lender. But that lender couldnt  approve the application at that time because the Vendor had 
bought and sold the property within six months. Mr K then went to another lender but was 
concerned that the mortgage  wouldnt be available until after 9 May 2019 and that he might  
lose his deposit.  
So, Mr K engaged PCF to arrange a bridging  loan with a lender. Mr K paid £280 for a 
valuation and £180 for the property to be opened by the keyholder. The new lenders valuer 
required a damp  survey and a structural survey.  Mr K was left out of pocket and had to pay a 
solicitor £240 for the extra work  of the bridging  loan. Our investigator didnt recommend that 
this complaint should be upheld as he felt that PCF hadnt done anything  wrong.  Mr K 
disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K had hoped  to get a mortgage on this property but there was a technical difficulty  as the 
application didnt  meet the lenders criteria so he then tried to get a bridging loan. The first 
lenders valuer had noted that there was previous movement  with the property but that this 
didnt look to be ongoing. There was mention of possible  asbestos.  That valuers view was 
that the property  was in an acceptable  condition for lending purposes  and valued it at 
£205,000. 
Mr K believed that he could have got a bridging  loan and then re-applied to the original 
lender again. Mr K seems to have  made  an application for a bridging  loan on 23 April 2019. I 
have seen a Decision in Principle from the new lender dated 24 April 2019 which  indicates  
that a mortgage  offer would be subject  to the lenders instructed valuation.  I also note that 
the possibility  is raised  by the lender that if there is an existing valuation  that is less than 3 
months old and that it may be possible to use it to form the basis of the lenders valuation.
The application progressed  and the new lender proceeded to obtain  its own valuation.  That 
valuer inspected  the property  on 29 April 2019. Unfortunately the valuer  for the new lender 
described the property  as being in poor internal condition with evidence  of subsidence and 
damp and suggested a £10,000 retention. That valuer asked for a number of further reports  
which would have involved  further expense but PCF couldnt  guarantee  a bridging loan even 
after that expense.
Although Mr K didnt  get a bridging  loan, its difficult to say that PCF has done anything  
wrong. It seems to have  immediately approached  a lender on 23 April but when this was 
refused on the same  day transferred  the application to another lender. There is no indication 
Ref: DRN44806302that its processes  were  less than prompt. The difficulty was that the valuer engaged by the 
new lender looked for further reports before approving the property as security for the loan. 
But that wasnt the fault of PCF. PCF had in its possession a valuation from a lender  
indicating that for that lender the property was acceptable for lending  purposes and that no 
doubt gave PCF and the Mr K confidence  that the bridging loan application would be 
successful. But the new lender engaged its own valuer which was of course a decision  made  
by the lender not PCF. 
Unfortunately Mr K didnt  get the bridging loan. Although  PCF may have had reasonable 
confidence it could  be got, there is no evidence that it guaranteed  the success of the 
application. Any application would always be subject to the lenders valuer being satisfied 
with the property as security for the loan and in this case  it required more information before 
it could be satisfied which isnt unusual or irregular.  I appreciate that Mr K is unhappy  with 
the costs he incurred with this application that didnt  progress.  But I dont believe that its 
reasonable to require  PCF to refund those fees to Mr K. So, for the above reasons, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4480630