K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Ms B says National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think NatWest  made it clear that Ms B didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this so 
many years later.  NatWest has provided  a copy of Ms Bs credit card application 
form. I can see from this Ms B chose  to take the PPI.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Ms B so it didnt have to check  if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Ms B got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Ms B.
But NatWest  has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Ms B because: 
NatWest got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms B about that. Because  NatWest didnt 
tell Ms B that was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Ms B has said - including what  she has said about an 
inaccuracy on her credit card application  form, and the other support Ms B could rely on. But 
these points dont  change my decision. I accept that the form has an inaccuracy  but I think  
its likely  Ms B was assisted in completing the application form, and this may be how it 
happened. It doesnt change my mind that Ms B was given a choice about the PPI and 
signed the form. 
Ref: DRN41017362my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But National  Westminster Bank does have to pay back to Ms B any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4101736