K821x#15complaint
In summary,  Mr B has complained that Openwork  Limited gave him unsuitable advice to 
transfer his personal  pension  and take out two pension policies.
background
In October  2008 Mr B had a financial review with one of Openworks advisers. It recorded 
that Mr B had a balanced attitude to risk. Having assessed Mr Bs financial circumstances, 
Openwork recommended  that he transfer  his personal pension  with company A to a flexible 
pension plan (FPP) with company C. It also recommended  that he redirect the ongoing 
contributions he had made into his pension plan with company A, into a stakeholder pension 
plan (SHP) also with company C.  
Mr B complained to Openwork about the advice he had been given. It said the advice  wasnt 
unsuitable as it had carried out a charges  comparison of the pension Mr B had with company 
A and the recommended  plans with company  C. This showed that the FPP was cheaper 
than Mr Bs existing pension with company A. 
It went on to say that two plans had been recommended  because  although the FPP was 
appreciably cheaper  than the stakeholder pension; the drawback with it was that it required 
regular premiums to be paid for many years in order  for penalties not to apply. And it also 
said that this reasoning  was set out in the suitability  letter it sent Mr B when the 
recommendation was made. So the reason he had two plans was because  this was the most  
flexible way for him to be able to stop,  start and amend contributions  without penalty  and 
the SHP was cheaper than the FPP and more flexible.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Bs complaint. In summary, she didnt think the 
advice was unsuitable. Mr B didnt agree so the case  was passed to me for review. 
I reviewed the case and issued a provisional  decision on 28 October  2019,  which  explained 
why I thought Mr Bs complaint should be upheld in part. Mr B didnt respond,  but Openwork 
did. It set out the reasons why it disagreed with my provisional decision. And it provided an 
illustration which showed the charging  structure  for regular contributions into the FPP. In 
summary it said:
The recommended stakeholder plan was much cheaper for many years  particularly 
where contributions increased. The indexation  of Mr Bs contributions meant  that any 
increases would have been  subject to an establishment charge. 
Its modelling  indicated the FPP only gained an advantage after at least 17 years  
of contributions.
The stakeholder plan was much  more flexible and it couldnt  be assumed Mr B would be 
able to maintain contributions for the long term.  The suitability  report recorded the 
flexibility aspect.
It thought the redress methodology I had proposed would result in a no loss situation. 
Ref: DRN44781502my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
Mr Bs complaint in part. Ill explain why.
From the information provided by Openwork, Im satisfied that as part of the advice process; 
it carried out a charges  comparison between  Mr Bs pension with company A and the 
alternative pensions  it was recommending with company C. This showed  there  was no 
transfer penalty if Mr B wanted to move his pension with company A to another provider. 
And taking  into account the charges on Mr Bs pension with company A and the proposed 
FPP with company  C to his retirement age of 65; there was an identifiable  cost saving if Mr B 
transferred his existing  pension  into the FPP. 
The FPP allowed  Mr B to invest in similar  funds to those available in his existing pension 
plan. So, taking all of this into account, I dont think the advice to transfer the pension with 
company A to the FPP was unsuitable.  
Ive also thought about the advice to redirect the contributions Mr B had been  making  with 
company A, into an SHP rather than the FPP. Mr B had been contributing  into a personal  
pension for a number  of years prior to meeting with Openwork. It has said that the reason an 
SHP was recommended was due to the flexibility  Mr B required. And it pointed to penalties 
that might  apply with the FPP, if Mr B stopped contributions in the future. In its response to 
my provisional decision Openwork argued  that the SHP was cheaper for a number of years 
and more flexible.
It seems  to me that one of the main rationales for Openworks  advice to Mr B was to achieve a 
cost saving by transferring his pension to a cheaper  plan. And as Ive said above,  I think based 
on the evidence  Ive seen there was a cost benefit to transferring the pension  with company A 
to the FPP with company  C. So logically I would have expected  the ongoing contributions  Mr B 
had been making  into his pension with company A, to be redirected to the FPP. But instead 
Openwork recommended  that those contributions be made into an SHP instead.
I accept that the SHP provided greater flexibility than the FPP from a potential  penalties 
perspective as it didnt have any penalties for stopping contributions. But notwithstanding 
what Openwork said in its response  to Mr Bs complaint; the evidence from the time of the 
advice clearly indicates the charges  applying to the SHP were  higher than the FPP it had 
also recommended.  
Ive also thought about the illustration and comments Openwork provided in response  to my 
provisional decision. The illustration isnt for the same  level of contributions Mr B was making 
into his pension. It assumes a monthly contribution of £5,000, when Mr B was making  a net 
contribution of approximately £71 a month.  So I dont think they provide a like for like 
comparison that I can safely rely on. 
Openwork also argues  that it couldnt  be assumed  Mr B would be able to maintain the level 
of contributions in the long term. But Mr B had been  making a similar  level of contributions 
into his pension with company A for a number of years. 
Ref: DRN44781503Its not clear to me on what basis Openwork thought  he may have  had to stop contributions 
into his pension in future years, particularly as he doesnt seem to have had any problems in 
making them in the preceding years. And I dont think  the perceived  benefit of having the 
flexibility to stop contributions  without penalty  that the SHP provided, outweighed  the cost 
savings that would have been  provided by the ongoing contributions  being  directed into the 
FPP that had been recommended to accept the proceeds of transfer. If Openwork had any 
doubts or concerns about the affordability  of the contributions  on an ongoing basis,  I think  its 
unlikely it would have  made the recommendation. 
At the time of the advice he was aged 42 and it was anticipated that he would retire at age 
65. So he had approximately another 23 years of contributing  into his pension.  So given the 
number of years it was anticipated  he would be contributing into this pension  until retirement, 
Im satisfied the FPP was the more cost effective pension plan. 
It seems  to me therefore that the recommendation to redirect  the ongoing contributions into 
the SHP rather than the cheaper FPP was counter intuitive to the underlying rationale for the 
pension advice Openwork was providing to Mr B; which was to reduce  charges. The net result 
of the advice it gave to Mr B; was that he ended up with two pension  plans and increased 
charges on his ongoing pension contributions,  than if they had been  paid into the FPP. 
Openwork has also said the redress methodology Ive set out would result  in a no loss 
situation. That may or may not be the case. But it wont be known whether Mr B has suffered 
a loss until Openwork  carries out a loss calculation using the methodology Ive set out below. 
So for the reasons Ive set out above,  I dont think the advice to take out the SHP was 
suitable. And I think Mr B should have been  advised to direct  his pension contributions into 
the FPP as this would  have resulted him in paying  lower charges on those contributions.
putting things right
In assessing what is fair compensation,  my aim is to put Mr B as close  to the position he would 
be in now if he hadnt been given unsuitable advice by Openwork. If Openwork  had given Mr B 
suitable advice  his pension contributions would have been  directed into the FPP rather than an 
SHP. Openwork should compensate Mr B by using the methodology set out below.
1)Obtain the current  transfer value of Mr Bs SHP with company C as at the date of my 
decision.
2)Obtain the notional transfer value  of the contributions  that have been made into the 
SHP on the basis  they had been made into the FPP and into the same  fund(s) as the 
proceeds of transfer from company  A.
3)If the figure in (2) is greater than the figure in (1) then the difference between  those 
figures should be paid into the FPP.  This payment should take into account any 
available tax relief  and the effect  of charges.
4)If the figure in (1) is greater than the figure in (2), then this indicates that Mr B hasnt 
suffered a loss.
5)Mr B should give Openwork the relevant authorisation  (if he hasnt already done so) in 
order that Openwork  can obtain the information it needs to carry out the calculations.
Ref: DRN447815046)The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection  or allowance. If that is the case, the redress  should  be paid directly 
to Mr B as a lump  sum after making  a deduction of 15% (30% if Mr B is a higher rate 
tax payer) if it cant  be paid into his personal pension. The payment would otherwise 
have been used to provide pension benefits, 25% of which would be tax free and the 
rest would  have been taxed according  to his likely tax paying status in retirement  
presumed to be 20%.  So the 15% deduction  adequately reflects this.
7)Add and pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of the decision to 
date of settlement  (if compensation isnt paid within 28 days of Openwork being  
notified of Mr Bs acceptance of this decision). 
8)Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Openwork deducts income tax from 
the interest it should tell Mr B how much  has been  taken off. Openwork should also 
give Mr B a tax certificate if he asks for one so he can reclaim any tax from HM 
Revenue and Customs  if appropriate.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is to uphold  Mr Bs complaint  in part. 
Openwork Limited  should calculate  and pay Mr B compensation (if the calculation shows  he has 
suffered a loss); using the methodology Ive set out in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4478150