K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the bank charges Santander  UK Plc (Santander) has applied over a 
number of years.
background
Mr P complained to us when he wasnt happy  with the way Santander responded to his 
complaint about  bank  charges. Santander didnt uphold his complaint and said theyd made 
no error.
Our investigator sympathised  with Mr P who had told us about some  difficult circumstances 
in the past. But, after investigating  Mr Ps account history, she didnt think Santander had 
applied any charges or interest incorrectly or unfairly. And it had made some concessions 
and waived charges previously. So she didnt feel it was appropriate to recommend that 
Santander should take any further action.
Mr P felt strongly  that Santander  ignored  his many earlier complaints and continued to 
charge him excessively  with no regard to his financial  situation. He told us Santander made 
payments to some of its customers before the court decision but thinks they ignored his 
claim probably due to the fact that it ran into thousands of pounds. Mr P said he wished to 
take this further  and asked for an ombudsman  to review his complaint
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand Mr P feels  its unfair that 
Santanders charges  are significantly to blame  for his financial difficulties. But, after 
reviewing everything thats happened, Ive come to the same conclusions  as our 
investigator. Here  are the reasons why I say this.
My role is to look at whether Santander has acted  fairly and reasonably.  For a number of 
reasons  which the investigator touched on in her view and expanded on in her subsequent 
letter of 7 March  2018 - Im only able to do that going back  as far as 2012.
Our investigator has explained  that its been  decided in court that it generally isnt possible to 
challenge bank  charges  as being  unfair or too high. And as far as I can see, it appears that 
charges have been applied to Mr Ps account in accordance with the terms and conditions 
for his particular account. So I cant  fairly say that Santander wasnt  entitled  to apply the fees 
and charges it did to Mr Ps account.
In coming to my final decision, Ive also thought carefully about  whether those  charges  were 
applied fairly  and reasonably in Mr Ps particular  circumstances. Ive also taken into account  
that we expect banks always  to treat customers who are in financial difficulty  positively and 
sympathetically. 
But this doesnt  mean that Santander  must cancel all charges on request. Or that it cant  or 
shouldnt - continue  to charge if the account is overdrawn.
In Mr Ps case, the records from Santander satisfy me that his account has never been in 
collections and recoveries   something  Id expect  to be the case had he reported financial  
difficulties to them. The terms  of Mr Ps account with Santander were that no daily arranged
Ref: DRN45649352overdraft fees, no daily unarranged overdraft  fees and no paid item fees. The only fees paid 
on this account  were for unpaid item fees, which are £25 each and there was a cap on those 
fees of £150 per month. Going back to 2010  I can see a total of £180 unpaid  item fees,  of 
which £50 were waived  or refunded.
I can see Mr P has faced  some challenging times and Im sorry to hear that. But looked at 
overall, I agree with our investigator  that Santander hasnt acted incorrectly  and it has 
treated Mr P fairly and reasonably. Based on the information Ive seen,  I cant uphold this 
complaint or require  the bank to take any further action in these circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4564935