K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited T/A Skoda Finance mis-sold 
her a hire purchase agreement.
background
In August  2016,  Mrs B acquired  a car under a hire purchase agreement  for 42 months. 
Mrs B says she made it very clear to the dealership the car was going to be used by her son. 
Mrs B says she was reassured  several times this type of arrangement  was common and that 
it wasnt a problem for the agreement to be in her name, but the car was to be used by her 
son. Mrs B says she was also advised  to keep the V5 document  in her name and that the 
car should be kept at her address. 
Mrs B says in 2018, her son decided to move away  from their family car insurance policy.  
And sought to find his own insurance for the car. However, Mrs Bs son encountered some  
difficulty in finding  his own insurance  for a reasonable price. Mrs B also says very few 
insurers were  prepared  to insure  her son as he wasnt on the V5 document  for the car. So, 
Mrs B doesnt think the finance agreement shouldve been  arranged in the way it was.
Mrs B contacted Skoda Finance to ask if the hire purchase agreement could be transferred 
into her sons  name. Mrs B says she was advised  that this wasnt  possible. Skoda Finance 
gave Mrs B two options at this point  either pay the outstanding  balance  on the finance 
(which Mrs B says was in excess of £6,000) or alternatively, keep the finance running and 
insure the car in her name with her son as a named driver.
Mrs B says she decided to pay the outstanding  balance on the finance. However,  in order  to 
do this, Mrs B says she had to use the funds she was intending to use to purchase a 
property for her daughter. Mrs B says as a result  of this, shes  been  at a loss and shes  had 
to use funds she wasnt intending to use for this purpose. 
Mrs B says had she been told that having  the finance arranged  in this way (with the finance 
agreement in her name but the car being for her son) meant  hed encounter problems later 
on, then she wouldve considered purchasing a car for her son in a different way  either  by 
taking out a personal loan or purchasing a used  car within her budget.
When Mrs B raised her complaint with the dealership, they agreed to offer Mrs B two 
services free of charge  (with a retail  value of £479) as a way to resolve her complaint. Mrs B 
didnt accept this offer and has asked for the difference  in insurance premium her son had to 
pay - which she says was around  £350.  Mrs B has also asked to be reimbursed around 
£2,800 which she says is the loss she incurred in not being able to purchase a property for 
her daughter.
Skoda Finance say Mrs B signed  the hire purchase agreement and had enough time to read 
the terms and conditions. Skoda Finance also say Mrs B had a 14 day window to exercise 
her right to withdraw from the finance  if she was unhappy with the terms on which the 
agreement was drawn down.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Bs concerns. In summary, he said he didnt think Skoda 
Finance were responsible for the insurance premium  increasing for Mrs Bs son. So, he 
didnt think it was fair to ask Skoda  Finance to pay the difference in insurance  premium. In 
relation to the funds Mrs B used to pay off the outstanding balance on the finance, our 
Ref: DRN49569052investigator said as Skoda Finance  werent looking to enforce the term relating to the keeper 
of the car, he didnt  think it would be fair to hold them liable for this loss. 
Mrs B disagreed. In summary, she said had Skoda Finance allowed her to transfer the 
finance into her sons  name,  there wouldnt be any issue.  And that a discussion around  
insurance shouldve  been part of the sales process. Mrs B also reiterated that she rarely 
drove the car and that the car was always intended to be used mainly by her son. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me.
Since the complaint has come to us, Skoda Finance have agreed to offer Mrs B a cash  
settlement equivalent  to the total of the two services (£479). Our investigator agreed this was 
fair and asked Mrs B if she wanted  to accept this. Mrs B didnt accept this as she said this 
amount wasnt sufficient to resolve  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hire purchase agreements, like the one given to Mrs B, are regulated by the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Section 56 of the CCA says that a finance provider is responsible for 
any antecedent  negotiations carried out by the credit broker. In Mrs Bs case, the dealer 
acted as Skoda Finances agent  with her hire purchase agreement for the car. And Skoda 
Finance are responsible for anything the dealer said to Mrs B about the contract, before she 
entered into it. 
I want to assure Mrs B I have considered  everything she has told us very carefully. I may not 
address every single  point  directly, but I have looked  at everything she has raised in coming 
to my decision. If theres something  Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I 
havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual  representation made to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I can see the agreement was taken out in 
Mrs Bs name. But I understand from everything Mrs B has told us that the car was for her 
son  and also that the dealership was aware  of this fact at the point of supply. 
The terms and conditions  of Mrs B agreement say we agree to hire the vehicle to you 
and you must keep  the vehicle in your possession. Which means it couldve been 
problematic for Mrs B to allow her son to have the car, when shes  named on the finance. 
However, as Ive already acknowledged, it seems  that Mrs B made  it clear  to the dealership  
the car was to be used by her son. So, it looks like something did go wrong here but what  I 
need to look at next is whether there has been any impact on Mrs B due to this error.
Skoda Finance have said the salesperson at the dealership is no longer working for them. 
So, Im unable to get their side of the story. But Mrs B has given a consistent, credible 
account of what  happened,  and, on balance, I think its likely she did tell the dealership about 
the set-up of the agreement. Therefore, I think something has gone  wrong . However, from 
the information available to me, Skoda Finance werent looking to terminate the agreement 
at the point Mrs B contacted them to ask them to change the name  on the agreement from 
hers, to her sons - in effect,  Mrs B remained in the arrangement she originally wanted for her 
son.
Mrs B says when she was told by Skoda Finance that the agreement  couldnt be changed  
into her sons  name, she chose to settle  the finance  by paying off the outstanding amount.  
Ref: DRN49569053Mrs B says in order to do this, she had to use funds she intended to use for another  
purpose. As a result, Mrs B feels shes suffered a loss. I can understand Mrs Bs frustrations. 
But I dont think it would  be fair or reasonable to hold Skoda Finance accountable for any 
losses incurred due to Mrs B choosing to settle the finance agreement. As Ive explained, 
Skoda Finance werent  looking to enforce the term relating to the keeper of the car, which  
could have led to them repossessing the car or terminating the agreement. Skoda Finance 
were willing to continue  with the agreement  in place. So even though the dealership may 
have not done things  properly, it didnt necessarily have an impact in terms of the 
agreement.
As Ive said,  I appreciate  Mrs Bs frustration in relation to using funds she was intending to 
use for another purpose.  But this was her choice. So, whilst something may have gone 
wrong in the way the agreement was set up, I dont  think this has effectively impacted Mrs B 
for the reasons Ive explained.
I understand Mrs Bs son left the family car insurance policy in order  to find an insurance 
policy to cover just him. It was at this point  Mrs B says her son realised the insurance  
premiums were significantly  higher.  Mrs B says she made clear  to the dealership  she was 
looking to buy a car model which was in a low insurance group and this is ultimately  why she 
chose the model  she did. 
I dont think its the responsibility  of the dealership or the finance provider to necessarily  
make customers aware of their car insurance  options at the point of supply. Its the 
responsibility of a customer to find an insurance policy which  is right for them  and their 
circumstances. Insurers consider many factors when setting premiums - each insurer will 
take its own approach  as to how to do that. 
Having considered everything, I think something  went wrong with the sale because Mrs B 
wasnt the main user of the car. But I dont think there was a mistake in relation to the lack of 
discussions around the insurance during  the sales process. Nevertheless,  I think  
inconvenience has been caused  to Mrs B. And I think the amount  Skoda Finance have 
agreed to pay Mrs B is fair in the circumstances. I wont  be asking Skoda Finance to 
compensate Mrs B the amount  she has requested.
my final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited T/A Skoda Finance 
should pay Mrs B £479.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2021.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4956905