K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a finance  agreement was mis-sold to him by Close  Brothers Limited  
(Close Brothers).  He says that it clearly wasnt affordable.
background
Mr M took receipt of a used car in June 2018. He financed the deal through a four year 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers.  The total amount of credit was £4,495  and 
there were to be 48 monthly payments of £128.18  under  the agreement.
But in December 2018 he complained to them. He said the agreement hed reached with the 
dealership had been rushed and proper checks hadnt been  carried out. He explained he 
was a student and unemployed and it shouldve been clear  the credit wasnt  affordable.
Close Brothers didnt  agree. They  noted that hed told the dealership  he was funding  the 
deal with a student loan and had income  from self employment so they thought adequate 
checks had been  completed.
But Mr M disagreed and he referred  his complaint to this service where our adjudicator 
provided her view. She reviewed some email  communication hed had with the dealership 
and noted that hed told them he was self employed;  earning  £1,100  per month  and was 
living with his parents  and would fund the credit  through his student loan. She noted that 
Close Brothers had done  a credit check on him and found a low level of debt so she thought  
their checks  had been proportionate and that the evidence at the time wouldve persuaded 
them that Mr M could afford  the repayments.  She noted that although Mr M had told us hed 
never worked in the UK and his VISA requirements wouldnt  allow  it; he had told the 
dealership that he had been working  in full time employment until the end of July 2017. So 
she didnt think there  was evidence to suggest hed been unable  to work, earn or repay the 
debt or that the agreement had been mis-sold.
But Mr M disagreed and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr M so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a conditional  sale agreement. The conditional sale agreement  is 
a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.
Ref: DRN46008072Relevant legislation says that the finance providers,  Close Brothers here, are liable for what 
is said by the credit  broker, the dealership  in this case, before the consumer takes out the 
credit agreement. So anything the dealer  said when  negotiating the finance agreement  
will be deemed to have  been said on behalf  of Close Brothers.
Since 1 April 2014 the applicable rules and guidelines have been the chapter on responsible  
lending in the Financial Conduct  Authoritys Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (chapter  5). 
These applied  here. The regulations say that a lender must consider the customers  ability to 
make repayments as they fall due, but they also say that affordability checks  should be 
proportionate. What is considered proportionate  depends on factors such  as the size of the 
loan, the amount of the repayments, and what Close Brothers knew  about Mr M and about 
his circumstances.  
The credit being  provided wasnt  insignificant and as itd been made clear that Mr M was a 
student I would think it reasonable  for Close Brothers to apply reasonable checks  to 
ascertain whether the credit  was affordable. I dont think  it would  be fair to suggest they 
should just take Mr Ms income and expenditure at face value and I think proportionate 
checks would need to sense check these figures.
Close Brothers have explained that Mr M was asked for details  about  his income and that 
they checked his credit file. He explained  he was living with his parents  and the credit file 
showed a low level of debt. They were aware that he was a student and would be entitled to 
a level of maintenance payments and they say he told them he was earning £1,100 per 
month on a self employed basis.
I can see that Mr M sent them a bank  statement  for April 2018 but he sent this on the date 
the finance agreement was established  so I cant be sure it was taken into account when the 
decision to provide credit was approved.  I think its likely  it wasnt taken into account  as Ive 
seen a copy of the underwriters report  and that predates Mr Ms email that his statement 
was attached to.
I dont think theres sufficient evidence to suggest that the checks that were performed were 
proportionate. I say that because:
there appears to have  been  no attempt to clarify  Mr Ms income. Ive not seen 
evidence that there  was a check of student  loan income or Mr Ms self employed  
income
I can see that the business asked Mr M on 12 June as you are self employed  and a 
sole trader we will need to know company name and your annual  salary. Mr M told 
them that he received a student  loan but hed finished his last job in 2017 and was 
now self employed. He didnt provide an annual salary or his company name and I 
dont think he therefore provided  Close Brothers  with the information they needed
I dont think there  were proportionate  checks to establish his outgoings either 
although I accept  that a student living at home may have few outgoings and the 
credit file would  suggest these were limited, I think it wouldve been sensible to check  
the bank statements to see if that was the case.
I asked Close Brothers  to explain if they did consider Mr Ms bank statement and what 
checks they made of Mr Ms income  but they didnt reply.
Ref: DRN46008073So Ive considered the evidence available to me and on that basis  I dont think Close  
Brothers checks were proportionate.  Ive therefore  considered what they would have found if 
they had been.
Ive looked at the statement Mr M provided  and Ive asked  him for clarification. I can see that 
Mr M was receiving  a student  loan maintenance grant of about £3,928 per annum  which  
equates to £327.33 per month. Ive reviewed his statements  for the three months prior to him 
being approved for his car finance. He was using all of his overdraft allowance  and there  
was no steady stream  of income; although he did receive random payments from other  
sources. These random  payments equated to about £1,800  or £600 per month. So on 
average in the three months  preceding  his application  for finance I think  Mr Ms income was 
about £927 per month.
Ive also looked  at what Mr M was spending.  The credit  file doesnt show  he was in any 
particular debt. Whilst Mr M has provided his accommodation costs for 2017 to July 2018 he 
hasnt provided  any for 2018 onwards and that supports his statement at the time that he 
was living  with his parents.  On average  the monthly outgoings from his account were  roughly  
£720 per month
Ive calculated Mr Ms disposable income  to be somewhere in the region of £207 per month.
The loan repayments were £128.12 per month  which  would appear  to be affordable after this 
analysis. So whilst  Im persuaded Close Brothers  didnt  do sufficient checks to establish 
affordability of the loan Im content  that if they did they would still have approved  it and Mr M 
has therefore not been disadvantaged. So for those reasons I dont think Close  Brothers 
need to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4600807