K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited was irresponsible  in lending  him 
money.
background
Mr P took out a number of loans with Provident  between February 2013 and January 2014. 
The first four loans  which ranged between £100 and £350 were  taken out between  February  
and July 2013. During this period Mr P was unemployed and relying  on state benefits. The 
final three loans for slightly larger sums were taken out between  September  2013  and 
February 2014, during which time Mr P was employed.
I understand Mr P repaid  the first four loans, but the latter three were sold to debt collection 
companies. In 2018 Mr P complained to Provident and said the loans were unaffordable.  It 
rejected his complaint and said it had carried out appropriate checks  including income and 
expenditure details along  with other credit checks.  
Mr P brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. She said that Provident had applied its 
lending criteria and concluded  it was appropriate  to make the loans. She said that the loan 
documentation including income and expenditure details which indicated the loan 
repayments were affordable. 
In particular she looked at the later loans to see if the business had taken into account Mr 
Ps payment history. She noted that Mr P had told her he had CCJ's  on his credit file and 
had missed payments  prior to Provident giving him further top up loans.
She noted he had missed  some of his weekly payments,  but these were made up the 
following week. She said the two defaults which were applied to his credit  file on the 10 
February 2014 and 17 September 2014. These  were after the last loan had been made by 
Provident and so would have been  taken into account.
Mr P didnt agree and said he had borrowed money  off family and friends  to keep up his 
payments. He added  that he didnt think Provident had carried  out suitable checks  on his 
income and expenditure. He said he had only £70 a week and this didnt allow him to cover  
the loan repayments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked Provident  for clarification of its checks on Mr P and I can see that it undertook a 
number of background credit checks in addition to the agent taking personal and financial 
details from Mr P. I had some concerns about the increasing level of lending,  but on 
reviewing his bank  statements  I noted  that the latter loans which increased in size were 
made after he obtained a job. At that point  his income increased  significantly and I am 
satisfied that these later loans were affordable.
I also had some concerns  about the early  loans which were made when  he was unemployed 
and the accuracy  of his income and expenditure details.  I suspect  they understated his 
Ref: DRN45722712outgoings, albeit  these were agreed to by Mr P. However, I have also reviewed his bank 
statements from the period and considered his payment history.  Both of these indicate  that 
Mr P was able to afford the loans. I appreciate  he has told us that he borrowed  from family 
and friends, but it is difficult for me to conclude that he was unable to afford these loans 
when he was maintaining them with the odd missed payment   
I also note that his bank statements dont show a man who was unable  to meet his financial 
commitments. I appreciate he may have  alternative sources of help which  are not apparent 
in the records  I have seen, but these dont lead me to conclude  Provident was irresponsible  
in making the loans.
I would add that I agree with the investigator that the CCJs were  shown on Mr Ps credit file 
after Provident had made the last of its loans. As such  it had no reason to take them into 
account. I appreciate  Mr P will be disappointed with my decision,  but after due deliberation I 
do not believe I can uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
1 March 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4572271