K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains about problems she experienced with Cofunds  Limiteds  (Cofunds) 
trading platform (previously referred to by me by another business name)  between early May 
and early September inclusive 2018. She says these problems caused her a financial loss, 
trouble and upset.
background
Cofunds issued  Mrs F with a final response letter (FRL) in June 2018  in which it apologised 
for the platform issues she had experienced. It sent Mrs F a gift voucher.
Cofunds issued  Mrs F with a further FRL in September 2018 in which  it again  apologised  for 
the platform issues she had experienced. Cofunds  sent Mrs F £100 for any trouble and 
upset caused  and refunded three  months worth of platform charges.
Mrs Fs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. But as a satisfactory 
resolution couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me for review  and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in January  2019.  In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its clear Mrs F has very strong feelings  about  this matter. She has provided detailed 
submissions in support  of her complaint which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mrs F will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point  raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,  I 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is most likely to 
have happened  given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
It isnt in dispute that Mrs F experienced platform problems  between early May and 
early September 2018 and that she should  be fairly compensated for any trouble and upset 
this might have caused her. But Im not persuaded that she has suffered a direct loss as a 
result of the platform problems she experienced which [Cofunds] should have to compensate  
her for.
Mrs F says that she part sold a holding she held (in a stock that I will call A) by way of a 
written switch instruction  form in early August 2018. But what she wanted  to do was sell her 
holding in A (online) in early May 2018.
But even if I was to accept what Mrs F says on this point Im not persuaded it would be either 
fair, or reasonable,  to hold [Cofunds] for the loss of approximately £250 she says she has 
suffered.
Ref: DRN45329012I say this because  if Mrs F was able to submit a written switch  instruction form in 
late July 2018  to sell her holding in A, I cant see why she couldnt have done so in early 
May 2018.
Furthermore for every profitable trade that Mrs F might have been deprived from making as 
a result of the platform problems she experienced there is the real possibility that she was 
also prevented from making a loss  making one.
Because of my view above I dont need to make any finding  on the growth of Mrs Fs 
investments, for example  whether it was 14% as submitted by [Cofunds]  (between early May 
and early September 2018), 0.5%  as submitted by Mrs F (between early May and 
mid August 2018), or some other figure. 
As I say above its only fair that Mrs F be compensated for any trouble and upset she might  
have been caused as a result of the platform problems she experienced.  But taking 
everything into account Im satisfied  that what [Cofunds] has already paid her (in cash, 
refunds and vouchers)  is sufficient.
Cofunds responded to say it agreed with my provisional findings and had nothing further to 
add.
Mrs F responded to say she didnt agree with my provisional findings and that Cofunds 
should pay her a further £500 by way of compensation.  In summary she reiterated her 
previous submissions about the problems she had experienced between  early May and 
early September 2018 and outlined further (new) problems she had experienced since  
early September 2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings  and I now confirm them as final.
As I said in my provisional decision I dont underestimate Mrs Fs strength of feeling about 
this matter. But even  having had regard  to the number of calls Mrs F says she was required 
to make to Cofunds and the number of emails she had to deal with, I remain of the view that 
what Cofunds has paid her by way of compensation is, in all the circumstances, fair and 
reasonable.
In response to my provisional decision Mrs F says she has experienced further problems  
since early September  2018. However  even  if this is the case  this would be a new complaint  
and one that Mrs F would  need to raise with Cofunds in the first instance.  And if Mrs F was 
to refer this new complaint to us, after first giving  Cofunds the opportunity  to consider it, it 
would need to be considered by us under a separate and distinct  reference number.
Ref: DRN45329013my final decision
My final decision is that Cofunds  Limited need  do nothing further in this case.
Mrs F doesnt have to accept my decision, but whether she does or doesnt,  I would  point out 
that this represents  the last stage of this services dispute resolution procedure
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4532901