K820x#14complaint
Ms W says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey  National)  mis-sold  her a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) policy.  
background
The MPPI policy was taken out alongside Ms Ws mortgage in late 2005/early  2006. She 
paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicators didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Ms W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinions, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ws complaint. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Ms W and Santander agree the policy was arranged  during a meeting. Santander had to 
ensure Ms W was made  aware  she had a choice about buying the MPPI. Santander has 
provided a copy of Ms Ws mortgage documents included a demands  and needs document 
and a separate application for the PPI.
The demands and needs document contains  Ms Ws answers to a number  of questions 
about her circumstances and then her agreement to take the PPI out. There is nothing  to 
indicate the policy was compulsory. So I think some  form of discussion about PPI took place. 
From what  we know about how Santander sold these policies at the time, it usual made 
applicants aware  they had an option.  Nothing Ms W has said persuades me that Santander 
did anything different here. 
So overall I think its more  likely  Santander made  it clear to Ms W that she had a choice 
about the PPI and she  at the time - agreed  to it.
Santander recommended  the policy to Ms W. Santander had to make  sure the policy  was 
right for Ms Ws circumstances at the time. I think that it was, and I say this because:
Ms W was eligible  for the policy.
She wouldnt have  been caught by any of the things the policy  didnt cover   like 
unusual employment  arrangements  or a pre-existing medical condition. So there  was 
nothing to stop her claiming the full benefit of the policy if she needed to. 
Ms W says she wouldnt  have  got any sick pay benefits from her employer.  But she 
says she had a small  amount of savings she couldve relied upon. The policy  
wouldve covered  Ms Ws mortgage repayments for up to 12 months  if she was too 
unwell to work or if she became unemployed. So the policy couldve still been of use 
Ref: DRN41543042to her. And it wouldve  meant any savings she had could pay for other  essential  
costs. 
The mortgage the policy covered was in Ms Ws sole name. And it was a significant 
and long term commitment,  which was secured  against her home. Given  the 
consequences of not keeping up her mortgage repayments, I think having the 
security that these couldve been  made  if she was unable to work wouldve been 
important to her.
The policy seems to have been affordable and Ms W couldve cancelled it at any 
time, without further cost, if her situation  changed or she no longer wanted to pay for 
it. I note that she did cancel the policy  at the end of 2006. 
As well as making sure the MPPI was right for Ms W, Santander shouldve also taken steps  
to give her clear information about the policy, so she could decide if she wanted it. I dont 
know what steps Santander took to do this. And its possible some  things  werent explained 
as clearly as they shouldve been.  But I dont think clear information wouldve changed      
Ms Ws decision.  I think she wouldve  still bought if for the same  reasons I think the policy  
was suitable for her.
So I dont  think Ms W has lost out from anything Santander mightve done wrong.
I know Ms W feels strongly and will be disappointed  by this outcome. Shes put time and 
effort into her complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points shes raised. But for 
the reasons explained above, these points  dont change my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4154304