K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about the term assurance  policy he was sold by Blueberry Wealth  Limited.  
Hes said he didnt consent  to the policy. 
background
Mr D has said he received  a call from an agent  of Blueberry Wealth in 2016 regarding  his 
protection needs. The agent assessed Mr Ds needs  and recommended a level term 
assurance policy with a sum assured  of £100,000  over a term of 26 years.  Mr D has said he 
was sent paperwork  relating to the policy which he didnt sign and return.
He complained to Blueberry Wealth but they didnt uphold the complaint.  They  found no 
evidence the policy had been set up in error.  And they believed Mr D had been provided with 
enough information to cancel the policy himself.
Mr D then brought the complaint to this service where it was considered by one our 
investigators. The investigator thought  the complaint should be upheld.  In his opinion the 
policy wasnt suitable for Mr D and shouldnt have been sold to him.
Blueberry Wealth didnt agree with his findings.  They maintained that Mr D had been aware 
that the policy had been put in place.  And hed been given enough information to cancel the 
policy. They  felt the suitability of the policy was a separate complaint point to what Mr D had 
originally complained about and therefore wasnt relevant to the complaint hed brought to 
them.
Because no agreement has been reached, the matters been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold 
Mr Ds complaint. I will now explain why.
Firstly, I should say that were an informal dispute  resolution scheme, and that our remit is 
inquisitorial. This means we can set the scope of our investigation  and can look beyond  the 
exact words of the consumers complaint.
In this case, Mr D initially  complained that he didnt consent to the policy  being  put in place. 
Im satisfied that our inquisitorial remit allows this service to consider the question  of the 
suitability of the recommendation and not to focus  narrowly on the point Mr D has raised.
In regards to Mr Ds initial complaint point, Im not persuaded  that he didnt  consent  to the 
policy being put in place.  Blueberry Wealth sent him a letter  on 12 October 2016 containing 
documentation relating to the policy. In the cover letter it says, The application summary is 
confirmation of the application made  on your behalf to the recommended  insurance 
provider.
The letter also gave an application submission  date of 10 October 2016  two days prior to 
the letter being sent. Mr D was also sent a policy summary which  gave details of how to 
cancel the policy and confirmed that if he cancelled within 30 day then he would  receive a 
refund of any premiums  hed paid.
Ref: DRN45944242In my opinion, this shows Blueberry Wealth were confirming to Mr D that the application had 
been made and the policy  was going to be put in place. So I dont think I cant fairly uphold  
Mr Ds initial  complaint point.
However, having considered the suitability  of the policy Mr D was sold and the protection  it 
provided, Im not persuaded it was suitable  for his circumstances at the time. 
The documentation  provided by Blueberry Wealth isnt clear  about why the recommendation 
was made.  The fact find says the purpose of the policy  is for Mortgage  and the reason for 
recommendation is Customer  does  not currently have a policy. But there  are no details 
regarding the remaining  term or amount of Mr Ds mortgage. Hes told us that at the time he 
had an interest only mortgage with an outstanding balance of around £67,000 that was due 
to end in two years. 
Broadly speaking, a level term assurance  policy is usually a suitable recommendation for an 
interest only mortgage. But the fact find lacks any detail around  why the policy  was 
recommended. It doesnt explain why a recommendation  was made for an amount that was 
greater than the outstanding mortgage amount and for a term that was longer than the 
remaining term of the mortgage.
The fact find doesnt  say why a policy for £100,000 over 26 years  was needed. The only 
reason given for the policy is Customer  does  not currently have a policy. So, taking 
everything into account, Im not persuaded the recommendation was suitable for mortgage 
protection purposes.
The application form sent to Mr D gives a different reason for the policy. It says the reason is 
family protection. At the time of the sale Mr D has said he was single,  but he had a 19 year-
old daughter who wasnt living  with him or financially dependent on him. However,  this 
wasnt recorded in the fact find so I cant see that this was considered  when the 
recommendation was made.
Theres also no mention  that Mr D wanted  to provide protection  for his daughter  should  the 
worst happen. So, I cant see there was anyone he wanted to protect in relation to his 
property in the event of his death. It therefore follows that I also dont think  the 
recommendation was suitable for family protection purposes.
Therefore, as I dont  think the recommendation was suitable, Blueberry Wealth  need to put 
things right by refunding  Mr D all the premiums hes paid, plus 8% simple  interest  on each 
premium.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Blueberry  Wealth  Limited must pay Mr D 
redress as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4594424