K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Quickly Finance Limited  (Quickly  Finance) is charging  a success fee for 
a claim he didnt give them authority to deal with.
background
Quickly Finance say following an online enquiry made by Mr J in June  2018,  they received  a 
signed authority  form from Mr J. Mr J says he never provided his signature on the authority 
form.
The authority form gave Quickly Finance permission to make  a complaint on behalf of Mr J 
about a payday loan taken out with Lender F. The authority  form included  the terms and 
conditions. This explained  that if Mr Js claim was successful, Quickly Finance would charge 
30% plus VAT on any payment received. 
Quickly Finance sent the claim to Lender  F. Lender  F agreed  to waive  the outstanding 
balance of £530.40 in settlement of Mr Js claim. Quickly  Finance sent their invoice for 
£190.94 to Mr J. 
Mr J complained to Quickly Finance saying he didnt sign the authority form, and the claim 
was made  without his consent. Mr J also said he wouldnt be paying  the invoice as he hadnt 
given permission for Quickly Finance to make  the claim.
The investigator found that Quickly  Finance had acted reasonably in making the claim,  and 
charging their invoice. Mr J says the signature  is not his and so he shouldnt  have to pay the 
success fee invoice.  As Mr J didnt accept  the investigators findings, the case  has been 
passed to me for decision.
This complaint was originally investigated  by the Legal Ombudsman, but was transferred to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) as part of the 
change in the regulation  of claims management companies
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this has been  an 
upsetting time for Mr J. Having reviewed the case, I agree with the investigators findings,  
and I wont be recommending compensation for this complaint. 
I can appreciate it must have been  upsetting for Mr J to hear about a claim, and receive  an 
invoice, when he feels strongly he hadnt  given  permission for Quickly  Finance to act on his 
behalf. 
Ive seen that on the same date that Quickly Finance says Mr J instructed them,  Mr J was 
sent an email saying that Quickly Finance would begin working on his pay day loan 
complaint. This email was sent to the same  email address Mr J has provided to this service. 
I think its fair to say the email address is one Mr J uses. I cant  say whether Mr J opened the 
email, or received it, but I think its more  likely  than not that this email was sent. 
Ref: DRN40497262When there are different versions  of whats happened  provided  by a business  and a 
customer, we need  to make a decision based on what we think has happened on balance. I 
dont doubt that what  Mr J has told me is how he remembers it. It just doesnt feel fair to say 
that Quickly Finance have acted unfairly  when the evidence Ive seen supports the work they 
did was with authority  from Mr J. 
Mr J says the signature on the authority  form is not his, and so he shouldnt  have  to pay the 
success fee. I cant verify whether the signature on the authority form belongs  to Mr J. But I 
think theres enough evidence for me to say that Quickly  Finance acted fairly in making the 
claim. 
The authority form was received by Quickly Finance, and acknowledged to the email  
address held for Mr J. The claim was successful because of work  Quickly Finance did. The 
terms and conditions explained that if Mr Js claim was successful, Quickly Finance would 
charge 30% plus VAT on any payment received from the claim.  As Mr Js claim was 
successful I think Quickly  Finance have  acted fairly  in charging Mr J their success fee. 
my final decision
For the reasons  provided I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4049726