K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited rejected his claim under Section 
75 Consumer Credit  Act 1974 in respect  of a timeshare.
background
Mr C purchased a holiday  club membership from a merchant I will call L in August 2008. The 
purchase was part funded  by a revolving credit  agreement provided by Clydesdale. 
Mr C says that he was unable to make  use of the timeshare as there  was no availability on 
the dates which suited him. In April 2014, L wrote  to members advising them that they were  
proposing to transfer all memberships to a company I will call O. Clydesdale has said that 
the transfer of membership did not affect  members' rights. O continued to offer holiday 
accommodation to members at a number of resorts, but not in the country which L had 
offered and which Mr C wished to holiday.  
Although not all the initial paperwork is available  Clydesdale  said that it appeared from the 
price paid that Mr C took out a trial membership for three years. That suggested his 
membership expired before the transfer  to O took place. 
Mr C says that after O took over, he was unable to make  contact  and he was never able to 
book a holiday. As such he believed the product was misrepresented to him and he was 
treated unfairly  during  the sale. He said the sale was illegal  under the laws of the country in 
which the sale took place. 
He says that as a result of the supplier's misrepresentation, he paid £2,295 which  has
caused him the loss. In other words he says due to supplier's misrepresentation he entered
into a contract which was not value for money. He says that but for the misrepresentation 
about the potential benefits,  he wouldn't have entered into the contract at all. Mr C asked 
Clydesdale to look into this and refund the total cost of the product. 
Clydesdale investigated  the claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act but 
concluded that it had been  brought too late. Specifically, it said that Mr C didnt  bring his 
claim within the time period set out in the Limitation  Act. So, it didnt think  it needed to look 
into the claim any further. 
In addition to the Limitation Act, Clydesdale also thinks  Mr C referred the complaint too late 
under the rules that apply  to our service  the DISP rules so it doesnt think we can consider 
the case. 
Unhappy with Clydesdales conclusion, Mr C raised a complaint. As the matter  was unable  
to be resolved, the complaint was referred to this service. The matter  was considered by one 
of our investigators who initially recommended it be upheld,  but after further evidence was 
supplied by Clydesdale took an opposing  view.  Mr C didnt agree and said that the contract 
had been misrepresented  and after O took over, he couldnt make  contact  with it.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN49485712I have reviewed the information provided to us in order  to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome on this complaint. Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. Id like to 
explain my reasons for this.
Firstly, I will address the banks claim that the complaint is out of time under our rules  set out 
in DISP 2.8.2(2)?
Our rules say that we cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers  it to us more  than:
(a)six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint
unless:
the failure to comply  with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
When assessing and declining a claim under the Consumer Credit  Act, a business is 
exercising its rights  and duties under a regulated credit agreement. A consumer may then 
complain if they feel that a business  has failed to fulfil its obligations  under this credit 
agreement, because they havent received satisfactory compensation for their claim.
So in this case, it follows that the event  complained  of is Clydesdales  decision on 14 
December 2016  to decline the claim Mr C made regarding the timeshare, rather than the 
sale itself. He complained on 6 March  2017,  which is well within the six year time limit 
specified in the rules.
Because of this, I think we can look at Mr Cs complaint, as it has been brought  within  the 
time limits set under  DISP  2.8.2(2).  So, I will now go on to consider the complaint, which  is 
that Clydesdale would  not look into the claim under the Limitation Act. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
Under s.75, Clydesdale is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or 
services for any breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier.  This means,  Mr C 
has a like claim against Clydesdale  just as Mr C would have against the supplier. So, if the 
claim against the supplier  of the timeshare has likely expired  under the Limitation Act, then 
that is something Clydesdale could take into account when it considered  Mr Cs claims 
against it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits  which apply to different  types of claims. Mr C says 
the timeshare  he bought  was misrepresented  to him. Under the Limitation Act, he had six 
years from the date upon which  he suffered  a loss as a result of the misrepresentation to 
bring his claim. 
As Clydesdale  steps into the shoes of the supplier for the purposes  of the s.75 claim,  to work 
out when the clock  starts running under the Limitation Act, I need to work out when it would 
start if the claim  had been brought directly against the supplier.
Ref: DRN49485713Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person  bringing  the claim has experienced 
damage and or loss as a result  of the misrepresentation.  In this case,  given the nature of 
the complaint,  I think damage occurred when Mr C suffered a financial loss as a result of 
purchasing the timeshare.  Ill explain  why below.
 
Mr C says that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation, he paid to enter an agreement 
which has caused him to suffer a loss. He says that but for the misrepresentation, he 
wouldnt have entered into the contract  at all and wouldnt have paid any money to the 
supplier.
So, I think the point  of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which 
was in August  2008. Thats the moment when he accepted any potential  benefit under the 
contract, and it was also the moment he accepted the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, Mr C 
needed to raise a claim no later than August 2014. As I understand it, Mr C raised  his claim 
in November 2016, which is some eight years  after the loss occurred.
He has said he wasnt aware he could raise concerns about the misrepresentation until 
much later. But the time limits set out for misrepresentation claims such  as this, start to run 
from the date of loss, which may fall earlier than the date he became aware that something  
might have gone wrong. I can see the investigator also considered  s.14A of the LA and 
whether it made a difference  to the outcome  of this complaint. I am not persuaded s.14A 
applies in this case so I will not comment on it further.  
Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into the 
complaint. Under  s.140A,  the courts may make  an order  under section 140B in connection 
with a credit  agreement if it determines  that the relationship between the creditor  and debtor 
arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors.  Only a court 
has the power to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is unfair, but it 
is relevant law we need  to take into consideration. 
The Limitation Act still applies for these types  of claims. For a s.140A claim, Mr C would 
have six years from the date the related finance agreement ended  to bring his claim. From 
the information I have, the finance agreement ended  in March 2009  so a s.140A  claim  
needed to be raised no later than March 2015.  As I understand it, Mr C raised his claim in 
November 2016,  which is more than seven years  after the finance  agreement ended.
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide  whether or not any claim Mr C may have against the 
supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that Mr Cs misrepresentation claim against the 
supplier and the like claim  against Clydesdale more  than likely exceeded the relevant time 
limits set out in the Limitation Act. So, it would  not be unreasonable for Clydesdale  to take 
this into account  when considering the s.75 claim against it. 
So, given that the claim now is more than likely  time barred under the Limitation Act, I think  
Clydesdales decision not to look into the claim was fair. 
Ref: DRN49485714my final decision
My final decision I that I do not uphold  this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision 
before 30 April 2021.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4948571