K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains,  through a claims management company (CMC)  that he, and his late wife 
Mrs W, were given unsuitable  investment advice  by Lloyds Bank PLC.
 
background
In 2000 Mr W received an inheritance from his stepmother of around £143,000 from the 
investments she held in a Lloyds Asset Management Service  portfolio (AMSP). In December 
2000 he and Mrs W were  advised to invest just short of £120,000 of this inheritance  in their 
own AMSP with Lloyds,  which  they surrendered around 10 years later at the end of 2010.
Mr and Mrs W complained through the CMC at the end of 2018 but Mrs W sadly  passed  
away soon after this. As Mr W is the sole executor and beneficiary of Mrs Ws estate the 
complaint is now in his name. Lloyds provided a final response to his complaint in which it 
made the following points:
Mr W was the attorney for his stepmother and he assisted with the management  of 
her financial  affairs, including her AMSP, before she passed away, so he had 
experience of its Asset Management  Service before the investment he and Mrs W 
made in 2000.
Mr and Mrs W had time to consider  what they wanted to do with the inheritance  some  
time before receiving  it as they were aware  Mr W would  be getting this. 
Mr W accepted an offer to speak  to Lloyds private banking  as he wanted  to discuss 
the Asset Management Service 
The sale was conducted over two meetings in December 2000  and Mr and Mrs W 
wouldve had time to reflect on what had been recommended  in the first meeting.
Mr and Mrs W wanted both capital growth  and income growth over the medium term.
The investment  had a low to medium risk profile  which was appropriate for 
inexperienced investors.
Mr and Mrs Ws cash reserve was sufficient and the investment was held for around 
10 years  so was affordable and sustainable for the medium to long term.
Mr W then referred  his complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the 
complaint but didnt  think it should  be upheld. She said the advice to invest in the AMSP  met 
Mr and Mrs Ws objective of tax efficient  capital growth and was in line with their attitude to 
risk. She also didnt think they had been  advised  to invest  too much  into it.
The investigator also said that Mr and Mrs W had some  experience  of investments  and knew 
their money would be exposed to fluctuations  in the markets.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigator. In short it made the following key points:
Mr and Mrs W didnt  have in mind an AMSP  when they met with the adviser as the 
investigator had said - they had no particular type of investment  in mind.
They had no significant experience  of investments with their previous investments 
being limited to small amounts and nothing like the £120,000 invested  in the AMSP.
Their TESSAs and National Savings Income  Bond were no risk cash  accounts so 
arent relevant.
The AMSP had a large exposure to gilts but was undiversified so had considerable 
risk of volatility.
Ref: DRN49288412An example of the lack of diversity is that in May 2002 the AMSP only had seven 
different shareholdings  with a few more  in the ISA, and with the fixed interest  holding  
being one gilt.
Investing 70% of free assets into an undiversified  portfolio was unsuitable advice.
As Mr R W and the CMC didnt  agree with the investigator the matter has been referred to 
me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important to make clear to the parties that, where there  is a dispute about what  
happened, my findings are made on a balance of probabilities - what  I think more likely, than 
not, happened  not what definitely did or didnt happen. I have considered all the evidence 
provided by the parties, but it is for me to decide how much  weight to give any piece of 
evidence.
I note there  is an issue about whether or not Mr and Mrs W had already  considered  the 
AMSP before discussing this with Lloyds. 
I dont know if Mr and Mrs W had already thought about investing in an ASMP  when  Mr W 
got his inheritance. Lloyds has suggested he wanted  a meeting to specifically discuss this. 
But the only document that I have seen  that might suggest this is the New Business 
Introduction Form completed  in 2010,  before Mr and Mrs W met with the adviser, which 
refers to them wanting to discuss asset management in the forthcoming meeting. 
But this doesnt  establish whether this is something that had been suggested to them by 
Lloyds in the first place  or not. And the form also records they had no plans for the 
inheritance which doesnt suggest  Mr and Mrs W were the ones to raise the possibility of 
investing in an AMSP.
In the circumstances Im not persuaded that they had made any firm decision about what  
they wanted to do with the inheritance. And in any event the AMSP still had to be suitable for 
them regardless of whether it was Mr W who first mentioned this or Lloyds.
The complaint made  by the CMC on behalf of Mr W is that the inheritance was a windfall and 
that it went without  saying they couldnt make good  any capital loss. The CMC has 
suggested that this windfall  shouldve  been  protected from further market risk and put into a 
high interest paying  savings  account which wouldve ensured a comfortable return  with no 
risk to capital.
But I dont agree that because the investment was from a windfall and that Mr and Mrs Ws 
were unlikely to be able to make  good any capital loss  their income being limited  to Mr Ws 
company and state pensions means they shouldnt have been  put into a risk based 
investment.
Mr and Mrs Ws objectives - as recorded  in the December  2000  financial report   included 
capital growth and income growth over a five year period.  I think  only a risk based product 
was likely to be able to achieve these goals.
Ref: DRN49288413I acknowledge they were not experienced investors,  but they werent first time investors  
either. The financial report I have  seen dated 21 December 2000  showed they had around  
£4,000 invested in shares in three companies.  I think this wouldve given them some 
experience of the risks of equity investments and how the value of these could fluctuate.
I think it is also of note that Mr W was attorney (since 1997) for his stepmother and that she 
had an ASMP which invested in shares   which formed the inheritance  he received. I think it 
is more likely than not that this wouldve  made him aware of this type of investment and the 
risks associated with it. 
I note what the CMC  has said about him leaving decisions about his stepmothers AMSP  to 
others, but nevertheless he will have  received  annual updates  and I think will have  had some  
understanding of the risk of his stepmothers  AMSP - for example when markets dropped in 
1998.
In the circumstances Im not satisfied a risk based product such as AMSP was unsuitable  
and I think Mr and Mrs W were aware of the risk and were willing to accept this. They were 
invested in a conservative growth portfolio which Lloyds describes  as a low to medium  risk 
investment. I have seen  no persuasive  evidence they werent  prepared  to take that level of 
risk with the money  they were investing.
I note the CMC has suggested,  in response  to the investigators opinion, that the ASMP 
wasnt diversified and it has compared the ASMP  with other  investments which provided 
greater diversification.
But just because there was much  greater diversification in another investment doesnt mean 
the ASMP had to have  similar diversity or was unsuitable because it didnt have such 
diversity. It wasnt completely lacking in diversity and Im not satisfied that it was unsuitable 
simply because it had limited diversity. 
Although I am considering the suitability of the advice to invest in the ASMP in 2000, I also 
think later evidence supports my finding  that Mr and Mrs W were aware of the risk of the 
AMSP and were willing  to accept the risk. In particular I note a file note dated 25 January  
2005 records that their private banking manager discussed  the IPS service available but that 
they wanted equities in their portfolio and werent  prepared to just have OEICs even though  
these had a lower risk profile.
And a further file note dated  24 November  2005 records a meeting with Mr and Mrs W and 
again mentioning the IPS but that Mr and Mrs W werent interested as they enjoyed  holding 
their direct equities and tracking progress through the newspaper.
Having considered the overall evidence I have not seen sufficient persuasive evidence that 
the AMSP was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs W. I have not seen any evidence  they werent 
prepared to take a risk with the money  Mr W inherited. And the amount invested  left 
sufficient cash available  to them if they needed  it. 
 my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April  2020.
Ref: DRN49288414Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4928841