K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold them income  protection.
background
Mr and Mrs L had unit-linked  income  protection policies with Lloyds. They took this out some  
time ago in 1990 and so there is limited information  about what  was said at the time of sale.
Mr and Mrs L said that when they surrendered their policies they expected to receive more 
money back. They said they were led to believe the fund linked to the policy would return 
more money because this is what they were told at the time. Mr and Mrs L also used their 
endowment policy as a direct comparable as it cost them a similar amount of money each 
month and they received a much  larger amount back at the end. 
Lloyds acknowledged  itd made  some  errors  whilst administering  their policies, but these 
were to do with incorrectly recording the deferred periods. After  this was amended it made 
redress payments to put things right  which Mr and Mrs L appear  to have accepted.  
But Lloyds defended its position on the surrender values stating this was not something  it 
could have guaranteed.  It also highlighted the primary function  of the income  protection  
policy was to provide  an income should Mr and Mrs L be unable to work due to sickness  or 
disability.
Our investigator agreed with Lloyds and thought the policies were suitable.  He found no 
guarantees were  given  regarding the amount they could expect to receive upon surrender of 
the policies. Nor any information that would have misled Mr and Mrs L into thinking  these 
were in any way a primary savings product. And so he didnt uphold  their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs L were  unhappy with this and so asked for an ombudsman  to consider their 
case. Ill summarise their reasons for doing so;
They had income protection  insurance elsewhere which was cheaper and so would 
not have switched had the advisor at the time not told them theyd likely receive 
money back at the end;
Illustrations of how the premiums would pay out were  grossly exaggerated at the 
time;
The premiums theyve  paid over the years are around £40,000  and would like these 
returned
And so its for me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same outcome as our investigator  and for mainly  the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
Given the passage  of time thats elapsed here, its not unusual for there to be limited 
records available, in particular, a fact find that would have recorded Mr and Mrs Ls 
situation at the time and their needs. And so without all the necessary information, I 
must make an on-balance finding,  that is to say what I think  most likely to have 
happened at the time.  Mr and Mrs L said they had income protection  policies at the 
Ref: DRN41419912time with another provider and having seen the application  form with Lloyds, Im 
satisfied this was the case. But the application form also highlighted that they were 
going to cancel their existing  cover  in order to move  to Lloyds. And so Im satisfied, 
on balance, they understood  the primary function  of the unit-linked income protection  
policy was to offer protection  should  they had been  unable to work due to sickness or 
disability. Otherwise, I think its unlikely they would have  made  arrangements  to 
cancel their existing  policies. 
Mr and Mrs L understood their policies  were unit-linked income protection  policies but 
they expected to receive a larger sum of money  after they were surrendered. Ive 
thought carefully  about why this might  be. I note Mr and Mrs L had drawn  
comparisons to the amount  of money  they received from their endowment policies, 
which cost them a similar amount each month.  But I dont think  this is a reasonable 
comparison to make given both products have an entirely different purpose.  
Particularly as the endowment policy was intended as a repayment vehicle for the 
capital borrowed against a property. The primary purpose of Mr and Mrs Ls income 
protection policy was to offer a monthly  income should they be unable to work  for the 
reasons Ive already explained.  I take on board neither of them used the policy,  but 
that doesnt mean they should  be entitled  to receive  back  the money they paid in. 
Further, Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me that these policies were 
unsuitable as neither  had cover elsewhere  during the time they were  with Lloyds. 
Had a successful claim been brought at the time, Ive not seen any evidence  to 
suggest cover would not have been  provided.  
Part of Mr and Mrs Ls premiums were invested into a managed fund. The purpose of 
this was so that as time went on, it acted a bit like a savings account and would pay 
money back to them  upon the surrender of their policies. Illustrations given at the 
time featured forecasted figures using  rates of return the regulator had asked 
businesses to use . Its important to note that  none  of the returns listed were  ever 
guaranteed. The purpose of the illustration was to show customers  what  they may 
achieve if their investment  performed  against one of the rates of return  used as 
specified by the regulator.  As with any investment, the fund value can go up as well 
as down. I note this was explained  in the statements Ive seen;
Although your plan is primarily  designed  to protect  your income in the event  of 
sickness or disability, it may also acquire a small  value  in units. As the unit prices  
change from day to day, so too does the value of your plan. Remember that the price  
of the units may go up as well as down   
In any event, Mr L received over £10,000 upon surrender of his plan, which, from the 
evidence available, is more than the highest quote  given by Lloyds, which  was 
£8,910. I note there were issues with the deferred  periods of both policies not being  
recorded correctly.  But these appear  to have been put right by the business when it 
made redress payments  with added interest. And so I make no finding here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Ref: DRN41419913Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4141991