K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that A J Bell Management  Limited (AJB) increased its charges  that applied  
to his Self-Invested  Pension Plan (SIPP).
background
Mr H has a SIPP account with AJB. In 2016  AJB notified Mr H that it was changing its 
charging structure. Mr H was unhappy with this as hed opened his account with AJB based 
on its competitive charging structure.  He complained as he felt it was unfair for AJB to have 
made the changes.
During our investigation AJB made  an offer to Mr H to allow him to exit the contract without 
charge. It also offered  to refund the increase in charges  from October 2016 to the date he 
transferred his SIPP with interest. Our adjudicator  felt this offer was fair and reasonable 
because the offer put Mr H in the position  he wouldve been in had he been able to transfer  
his SIPP  without charge when the new charging  structure was put into place.
Mr H disagreed. He explained  that he didnt want to transfer his SIPP  to another provider, he 
wanted AJB to offer him the original terms of his agreement. He also felt that this service 
should look into the wider impact  to other  consumers.
Our adjudicator explained that our role was to look at individual  complaints and that we 
arent the regulator. He explained in further detail why he felt the offer from AJB was fair and 
reasonable. As Mr H disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator that the offer AJB has made is fair and reasonable.
AJB notified Mr H of the changes  it was making to its charging structure, and gave Mr H a 
link to see how he would be affected.  However  since the complaint has come  to this service  
AJB has offered to refund  the increased  charges with interest  from the date the charging 
structure changed up to the date Mr H transfers  his SIPP. Its also offered Mr H the chance 
to exit his contract  without  charge.  In my view this is a fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Hs complaint as it puts him in the position  he wouldve been in had he 
been able to exit the contract  free of charge  when  the changes were  made.  
I understand Mr H wants to keep his SIPP  with AJB but with the original charging structure 
he signed up for. But it wouldnt be fair to ask AJB to do this in the circumstances of Mr Hs 
complaint. And it has now offered a fair resolution  to Mr H to allow him to transfer his SIPP 
free of charge. So I wont be asking it to offer Mr H anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that the offer AJ Bell Management Limited has made Mr H is fair and 
reasonable. I leave  it to Mr H to decide  whether to accept this offer by the date specified 
below.
Ref: DRN47724982Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4772498