K822xcomplaint
Mrs Ps complaint concerns the suitability of investment advice provided by a representative 
of TenetConnect  Limited. 
background 
Following the sale of a property  in 2006  Mrs P was given advice on investing her share of 
the proceeds. A recommendation  was made  to invest £550,000 in off-shore investment 
bonds, split between a £250,000 bond in cash funds for easy, charge-free access  and a 
£300,000 bond in a wide variety of more specialist  investment funds, for the longer term and 
providing an income of 7% per year.     
The investment was initially set up incorrectly as a single  bond, rather  than two separate  
bonds. But this was corrected soon after and Mrs P compensated  for the error  by the bond 
provider.
Mrs P continued to receive  advice on the bonds from the adviser over the following years.  
However, in mid-2007  he became  a representative of a different business. So a separate  
complaint has been made concerning the advice provided by him from mid-2007 onwards.   
In 2017 Mrs Ps representative made  a complaint on her behalf about  the general  suitability 
of the advice. Concerns were also raised  about the amount invested, as Mrs P had 
understood that a significant  enhancement  shouldve been applied  to the amount invested, 
and also about  the lack of ongoing information provided about  the investments.  
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and felt it should succeed. He was of the opinion  
that the advice  was unsuitable for Mrs P. In brief, he felt it was unlikely she wouldve fully 
appreciated the risks involved with the recommended funds and particularly the additional 
risk of taking  a 7% each  year to provide the stable income it was documented that she 
required following the sale of her property. 
The adjudicator therefore recommended Tenet compensate Mrs P. For the £250,000 cash 
fund element, he said she should be put in the position shed now be in had she otherwise 
invested in the same funds but with no exit penalties applicable. For the remaining £300,000, 
he recommended  Tenet compare the performance  of the bond with our cautious risk 
benchmark  50% Bank of England fixed-rate bond rates and 50% the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return  Index. 
The adjudicator noted that the redress should  be capped  at the point in 2007 that the adviser  
moved from Tenet to the other business.  And interest at 8% simple should be added from 
that point to the date of settlement.
Tenet responded to say it was disappointed  with the adjudicators conclusions. But it 
nevertheless accepted  the findings and said it was prepared to compensate  Mrs P in line 
with the adjudicators recommendations  so the complaint could be resolved. 
But Mrs P wasnt  prepared  to accept the adjudicators recommendation without knowing 
what the actual  figures  were. She explained  that this was the whole basis of her complaint 
she doesnt know what happened to her money  after the investment, so shed like to see 
what happened with withdrawals, etc, before deciding whether she should  accept the 
compensation.
Ref: DRN42719522As the complaint therefore  remained unresolved, the matters been referred to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Tenet has already accepted the outcome  proposed by the adjudicator, for clarity I 
agree that the advice provided  to Mrs P was unsuitable for her needs and circumstances. Im 
not persuaded she wouldve appreciated the level of risk it presented  to her ongoing need for 
income. And I agree the method of compensation recommended represents a fair way to 
compensate her. 
I understand Mrs Ps concerns with the current lack of transparency  in respect of the 
compensation and I appreciate shed like to see precisely how much the compensation will 
amount to  and how it has been calculated  before agreeing  to it as a resolution of the 
complaint.    
I understand Tenet is already  in the process  of working with the bond provider to get the 
information it needs to carry out the calculations. So, in the circumstances, I think the most 
practical course of action  is for me to issue this final decision, which if accepted  will then 
become legally binding upon  Tenet. 
While I cant be sure whether the calculation  will ultimately demonstrate that theres  been  a 
loss over the limited  period in question,  Mrs P wont be disadvantaged  by accepting the 
decision. Tenet will be required  to perform the calculations and any loss will be subject to 
interest at 8% simple  until the date of settlement.  So, Mrs P also wont  be disadvantaged by 
any delay.  
Mrs P has also raised some concerns with a mortgage she says she had to maintain as a 
result of money being tied up in the investments. But it appears  this issue mainly impacted 
the period after the adviser had moved  to the new business. So I havent considered the 
issue in this decision.   
Finally as an aside, I note Mrs Ps particular  concerns with an apparent  lack of information 
provided to her about her investments over the years. To that end it may be worth her, or a 
representative, liaising directly with the bond provider  if she hasnt already  to see what  
information it may be able to provide  to her. 
compensation
In respect of the £250,000  cash bond, Mrs P should be put in the position she wouldve 
been in had she otherwise invested  in the same cash funds but with no exit penalties  
applicable.
In respect of the £300,000  investment bond,  Mrs P should be put in the position she 
wouldve been in had she otherwise invested  for a return  as follows:
50% for a return matching the average return from fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England on its website over the same  
period of time.
Ref: DRN4271952350% in line with the average return from the FTSE UK Private  Investors Income  total 
return index
This is not to say that Mrs P would necessarily have invested in some  kind of fixed-rate bond 
or stock market tracker  fund. Rather, I consider this to be a reasonable compromise  that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return she could have  obtained  from investments  suited  to taking 
an element of risk.
I understand that Tenet was only responsible for the advice until 6 August 2007 so it can cut 
off the loss calculation at that date. Tenet should compare the calculated  return  of the above  
benchmark with the surrender values applicable  at the date the agency was transferred.
All withdrawals taken over the period concerned can be deducted as and when they were  
taken from the calculation. Tenet should ensure that any potential  exit penalties  applied  to 
regular withdrawals from the cash fund element (as well as any ad hoc withdrawals) should 
be accounted for in the calculation.
To any losses calculated  up to the transfer of agency interest  should  be added at 8% simple  
per annum  gross from the date of transfer  until the date of settlement. Details  of the 
calculations should  be provided to Mrs P in a clear,  simple format. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that the complaint should be upheld.  I direct 
TenetConnect Limited to pay compensation to Mrs P as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4271952