K820x#14complaint
Mr, Mrs and Miss Es complaint  against  Forester Life Limited  is about  three  bonds they took 
out between 2001 and 2005.
background
Mr and Mrs E took out two baby bonds  and one youngster bond with The Childrens Mutual.  
Two of the bonds were in the name of their daughter, Miss E, and one was in the name of 
their son. Forester Life later acquired  the business  of The Childrens  Mutual and so they are 
the responsible  business  for this complaint.
The bonds  were with profits savings plans designed to help parents  build  up a lump  sum for 
their child.  Mr and Mrs E made regular monthly  payments over the life of the plans, which 
would pay out at least a guaranteed  minimum amount on maturity.
Mr and Mrs E complain  the bonds were mis-sold to them. They  say they had limited 
experience of investments and the information they were given was ambiguous about 
charges and included ambitious projections  for growth which  werent realised.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Forester Life had done anything  
wrong. Mr and Mrs E disagree  and have asked for an ombudsman to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres only limited paperwork available from the time Mr and Mrs E took out the bonds.  
It appears they decided  to do so after reading  leaflets about  the bonds  and speaking  to 
The Childrens Mutual on the phone. 
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, I dont think Mr and Mrs E were given advice about their 
investments. That means The Childrens Mutual  werent required to assess  whether the 
bonds were suitable for them. But they did have to make sure Mr and Mrs E were given clear 
enough information about the bonds  to make an informed decision.  Thats  the key point Ive 
looked at in this decision.
Ive looked at the leaflets  Mr and Mrs E would have  seen  at the time. Having done so, and 
considered what  both parties  have said, I think Mr and Mrs E were given sufficiently clear 
information when  they took out the bonds.
I think it would have  been clear to Mr and Mrs E how much they would be paying into the 
bonds and how they worked. The information Ive seen explained that the bonds  would pay 
out a guaranteed minimum amount when they matured. But the value of the bonds,  and how 
much their children would get back, depended on how well the investments performed. 
The leaflets explained that the guaranteed sum assured was the only guaranteed amount 
payable at the end of the plan. That meant there  was a risk the amount payable at maturity  
could be less than the total amount paid into the bonds. It was explained that in order  to 
avoid this, the plan would  need to generate the addition of profits  through  bonuses added 
annually and at maturity. The bonuses would then increase the return  at maturity.
Ref: DRN48023642Mr and Mrs E have  said the information  they were given was misleading because  there  were  
so many references to annual and one-off bonuses.  And they were given illustrations of how 
much the bonds  would be worth based  on different rates  of growth that were  never  realised.
But I think it was made  sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs E that the bonuses  were not 
guaranteed. And it was explained that the illustrations  were only examples and not 
guaranteed returns. I think it was clear that the maturity value of the bonds would depend on 
the performance of the investments. Mr and Mrs E could get back more or less than the 
projections. 
Mr and Mrs E have  also complained about  the charges  they paid, including  additional 
charges in 2013 and 2014. The leaflets Ive seen explained that charges would be payable 
for setting  up and managing the plans  and making  investments.  Based on what Ive seen, 
I think Mr and Mrs E were  provided  with sufficiently  clear information about  the charges. 
And Ive not seen  evidence that Forester Life did anything wrong in taking the charges they 
did. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs E are disappointed with the performance  of the bonds. 
But the way in which a product provider manages investments is a matter for its own 
commercial judgment.  In this case,  Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs E were provided  with 
sufficiently clear information about how the bonds  worked. And they were  given no 
guarantees as to what the returns would be in addition  to the guaranteed sum assured. 
So, I dont think Forester Life have done anything wrong. 
I realise this will be a disappointing decision for Mr, Mrs and Miss E but I wont  be upholding 
their complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr, Mrs and Miss Es 
complaint against  Forester Life Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr, Mrs and 
Miss E to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2020.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4802364