K821x#15complaint
Ms Os complaint is about the handling  of claims made under her gadget insurance policy
with Assurant General  Insurance Limited.  Assurant uses agents to deal with claims on its
behalf. Any reference to Assurant in this decision,  should be read as including  those agents
acting on its behalf.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter earlier this month,  part of which is copied 
below:
Ms O made  a claim online  for a mobile phone and tablet computer in late September 2018.  
It was apparently agreed that the items  would  both be collected by courier. The phone was
collected and a replacement sent to Ms O the next day. However, there  was a delay in
dealing with the tablet. On 4 October 2018, Ms O also made a claim for her laptop computer.
There were several courier appointments made  for the collection of the tablet and the laptop,
but numerous problems occurred. For the sake of clarity, I will set out the brief 
circumstances of each  of these claims separately  below:
Tablet claim  - claim made in September 2018.
27 September 2018 the tablet was meant  to be collected at the same time as the phone but
the courier refused  to take it. It was agreed that Ms O would  drop it off at a local courier pick
up point and this was done.  On 11 October 2018 the tablet was returned to Ms O, however
Ms O said there was dust under the screen,  which affected its performance.  Assurant
agreed to collect the tablet again but there  were problems again with the collection.
Eventually, Assurant  agreed to exchange  the faulty tablet with a replacement, which was
provided to Ms O on 13 November 2018.  Assurant says the replacement was an upgraded
model.
Laptop claim - There were  several failed collections of the laptop. Assurant says that on
9 October 2018, when  Ms O called to say the laptop  had not been  collected again, it
suggested she could  post the laptop to Assurant  but Ms O disputes this. Another  collection
was arranged for 11 October 2018  (the laptop  was meant to be collected at the same time
as the tablet was returned  to Ms O) but the courier refused to take it as he said he had not
been instructed  to collect anything.
Assurant said Ms O could take the laptop to the manufacturers store to be repaired and it
would reimburse  the cost.  Ms O didn't want to do this as the nearest  store  was an hour
away. Assurant then offered to provide  a replacement  laptop, which  could be exchanged for
Ms Os laptop when she returned  from her holiday.  This was agreed but on 17 October
2018, Assurant  told Ms O that it couldnt  in fact find a replacement. Assurant said the options
then were to try again to collect the laptop  for repair or it would pay cash  for Ms O to get it
repaired herself. A further collection  was due to take place on 20 November 2018, but this
failed. Following this, Assurant offered a cash settlement instead. On 22 November 2018,
Assurant offered £448.33, which it says is the average market value of a refurbished laptop
of the same  make but higher specification, as it was unable to find any values  for the same
model as Ms Os laptop. Ms O was not happy  with the cash offer and wanted  the cost of a
new replacement. As a result, this claim has still not been resolved and I understand
Assurant has refunded the £75 excess payment to Ms O. Assurant also offered £100 for the 
delays in dealing  with the claims.
Ref: DRN40201322Ms O is very unhappy about the delays,  the number of times she had to wait for couriers
who didnt turn up, and being without the use of a properly  working  computer. Ms O is self 
employed and relies on her laptop.  Ms O says she wants  compensation of £50 per day for
10 days where she waited  for couriers; and for Assurant to either replace the laptop with
either a refurbished or new laptop,  or a reasonable cash settlement  as it has confirmed that
a repair  is not going to happen.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He didnt recommend that it be upheld.  While
he acknowledged that there  had been  numerous  failed  collections and the frustrations this
will have caused to Ms O, he considered that Assurant had tried to resolve matters for Ms O.
It had also offered alternative  options, which were all reasonable and the investigator didnt
therefore think that it needed  to do anything more to put this right.
The investigator was also satisfied that the cash settlement was in line with the policy terms.
If Ms O didnt  receive these terms that a matter  for the bank that sold the policy to her, it
doesnt mean that Assurant is not entitled  to rely on such terms.
Ms O does not accept  the investigators  assessment.  She is very unhappy and feels that he
was not impartial  and has not considered everything  properly. [She has made  a number of 
points, summarised below:]
 The investigator said Assurant offered for her to send the laptop on the 9th October
2018 but she has no record of this and she did not refuse to send it back.
 She recalls a telephone conversation with Assurant just before she was going on
holiday, in which different  options were discussed. The representative  told her he
would investigate all options  and then get back  to her. He did contact  her again on 16
October 2018, whilst  she was on holiday to say he could not source a replacement
for the laptop.
 She never  declined to send the laptop  back to Assurant and if there is any such
email, it should be provided  to her.
 Even if this was suggested to her, she couldnt  send it herself as she was going on
holiday.
 The cash settlement could have been  offered a lot sooner  than it was. However,  the
amount offered is not enough.
 The investigator has said Assurant has done her a favour by replacing the tablet
when that was part of the claim  process  for which she had paid her premiums.
I also understand, Ms O has made a separate complaint  about  the provision of the package
this insurance came  with. For the avoidance of doubt, I am only addressing the complaint
about the handling of the claims she made in late 2018 to Assurant  in this decision.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms O says she didnt see the terms of the policy until after she submitted this claim but as
the investigator has said, as the policy was sold to Ms O by her bank it is responsible for
providing her with the policy  documentation.  Even if Ms O didnt see the policy terms before
this claim,  Assurant is still entitled  to consider any claim in line with its policy  terms and can
Ref: DRN40201323rely on any terms therein.
I can see that this was a frustrating saga for Ms O. It is annoying  and inconvenient to have to
wait for deliveries and collections, which dont happen. The couriers  were acting on behalf of
Assurant, so any failure to collect or deliver  was Assurants  responsibility. I dont consider
that the compensation offered so far is sufficient to compensate for the number of times the
collections and deliveries  didnt happen  in relation to both claims and the inconvenience this
caused. I consider  that £250  is more  appropriate  (to include  the £100  already offered).
Assurant is entitled  to deduct the laptop claim  excess from this amount.
Ms O still has her laptop unrepaired  and says she lost all faith and trust in Assurant dealing
with the claim properly but there  were reasonable  offers open  to her to accept.  Assurants
notes show a conversation on 9 October when it said it could rearrange collection  of the
laptop for 11 October 2018 and if not she could send it to Assurant and it would reimburse
the postage costs. It also sent an email that same day referencing  that conversation.  It was
also discussed that Ms O could get it repaired by the manufacturer. Ms O replied that she
would prefer that Assurant source  a replacement and arrange  an exchange for that when
she comes back  from holiday. A couple of days later,  it told her that it couldnt source a
replacement after all, and so it subsequently offered  a cash settlement. While Ms O was
away for a while  during  all this, the options presented by Assurant could still have been
taken up on her return.
If Ms O still wants her laptop repaired then she can ask Assurant to do so but given what  has
happened so far and that Ms O also didnt  want to get the laptop repaired herself, I consider
the cash settlement  of £448.33 to be the most sensible way to proceed,  I am not persuaded
that the amount offered is unreasonable. No persuasive evidence has been provided to say
it is not a reasonable amount and not in line with the policy  terms. Interest should be added
from the date of the claim to the date of settlement, at our usual rate.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint in part and require  Assurant General Insurance Limited  to:
 arrange  for the repair  of the laptop,  or pay Ms O the sum of £448.33 as cash in lieu
of repair  if she would  prefer, together with interest  at [8]% simple  per annum from the
date the offer was made to the date of settlement; and
 pay Ms O the sum of £250  (less the policy excess) as compensation for the distress
and inconvenience  caused by its handling  of this matter.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
comments they want considered. 
Assurant has confirmed  that it agrees that £250 is fair compensation and agrees to pay this 
and the cash in lieu settlement, unless Ms O still wants  the laptop repaired.  It does  not 
however agree to paying interest on this sum. It says the offer was first made in November 
2018 but refused by Ms O. As Ive determined  the offer was fair, interest should not be 
applied. 
Ms O has also responded and confirmed she accepts my provisional decision. However, she 
says I have not addressed that fact that she wanted to cancel  this insurance cover but was 
Ref: DRN40201324she was told by her bank (which provides the cover as part of a package  of benefits) to wait 
until the complaint  was dealt with. She has therefore  been  paying for this for another  year 
when she didnt want it or need  it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accept  the main  parts  of my provisional decision, I see no reason to change  
my findings.  I remain of the opinion that Assurant  should pay £250  compensation (less the 
£75 excess) and it should  also either repair the laptop or pay Ms O the sum of £448.33 if she 
would prefer. Ms O can tell the investigator  which she would prefer in response to this 
decision and the investigator will arrange for Assurant to contact her to proceed with the 
settlement. 
With regard to the interest,  I can understand Assurants position. It did make a reasonable 
offer in November 2018 and this could  have been  accepted then. However, the interest is 
not a penalty,  it is simply to reflect the fact that Assurant has held those monies when they 
were due to Ms O. It is irrelevant  why that was not paid in November 2018. I therefore still 
consider that interest is properly payable on the settlement amount, if Ms O chooses to settle  
for that, rather than have  the laptop repaired.  However, I did put the interest at 9% in error in 
my provisional decision, when our usual rate is 8%.
Ms O has also said that she tried to cancel  the policy  with Assurant but was told not to and 
so has had to continue paying for it. I am unable to address his as part of this complaint. The 
policy was sold to her by her bank  as part of a package of benefits and she says it was the 
bank that told her not to cancel. I can only deal with the issues  between Ms O and Assurant. 
Any complaint about the bank will have  to be dealt with separately.     
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Assurant General Insurance  Limited to:
arrange for the repair of the laptop, or pay Ms O the sum of £448.33 as cash in lieu of 
repair if she would prefer, together  with interest at 8% simple per annum form the 
date the offer was made to the date of settlement;  and
pay Ms O the sum of £250 (less the policy excess) as compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused by its handling  of this matter. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4020132