K820x#14complaint
Miss V complains  that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC lent irresponsibly when it approved her 
loan application  in 2017. 
background
In October  2017 Miss V made an online loan application with Tesco  to borrow  £23,000. 
Tesco looked at the information Miss V provided  about her personal and financial 
circumstances and completed a credit  search.  The application was approved and the funds 
sent to Miss V. 
Miss Vs explained that at the time of making the loan application  she was suffering with 
mental health issues. As a result, Miss V says she applied for a loan she couldnt afford and 
feels Tescos  checks before proceeding shouldve highlighted there  were  problems. 
Miss V maintained her loan payments for several months  but in 2018 contacted  Tesco to 
explain she wasnt able to continue working.  A third party made  payments for Miss V and 
Tesco later agreed to accept reduced  payments. 
Miss V contacted this service to raise concerns about the way her loan application  had been  
handled and complain that Tesco had lent irresponsibly. Tesco responded but didnt  agree  it 
couldve known about Miss Vs mental health issues when she applied.  Tesco  said that the 
loan appeared affordable which is why it was approved. 
An adjudicator went on to look at Miss Vs concerns but didnt ask Tesco  to take any further  
action as they thought the complaint had been  dealt with fairly. As Miss V remains unhappy 
with the outcome of her complaint its been passed  to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin  by saying that I have sympathy  for what  Miss Vs told us about  her health 
and circumstances.  I appreciate Miss Vs been  through a very difficult time and that shes 
now unable  to work. But my role is to look at whether  Tesco lent irresponsibly and if it 
shouldve been  aware of Miss Vs circumstances  when  she applied. 
Ive thought carefully about what happened when  Miss V applied for her loan but Im not 
persuaded Tesco lent irresponsibly. A copy of Miss Vs application has been  provided and I 
can see she told Tesco she was employed  and also received other income from tax credits, 
child benefit and a car allowance. 
In addition to the above  information Tesco took information about Miss Vs rent and 
completed a credit check. Miss Vs sent us a copy of her credit  file and theres no missed 
payments showing  from around  the time of her application and no adverse credit. The 
information on Miss Vs credit file met Tescos lending criteria  and the application appeared 
affordable so it agreed to proceed. 
Theres no specific set of checks a lender must  complete when assessing  a loan. But 
lenders should  look to complete proportionate  checks to ensure a loan is affordable  and 
Ref: DRN49708822sustainable. In this case, Tesco looked at Miss Vs personal and financial circumstances,  
checked her employment  and income  (including  additional  income) and took details of her 
rent. Tesco also checked  Miss Vs credit  file. 
Miss Vs said that if someone had called her or if thered been a specific check  concerning  
mental health in the application Tesco may not have  agreed to proceed.  But this service  
doesnt set the rules,  thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority, and we cant  tell 
businesses how to assess loan applications.  
Whilst I appreciate Miss Vs circumstances, Im satisfied that the checks  Tesco completed 
were proportionate and, based  on what it found out about Miss V, the decision to proceed 
was reasonable.  Im sorry to disappoint  Miss V, but Ive not found Tesco lent irresponsibly.
A third party  made some loan payments for Miss V and Tescos since agreed to accept  
lower payments in the short term. I can see that the adjudicators given Miss V information 
about organisations that may be able to help at this difficult time and Id encourage her to 
take that step if she needs advice. 
Taking everything Ive seen into account, Ive not found that Tesco lent irresponsibly so Im 
not telling  it to do anything else to resolve  this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept  or reject my decision 
before 22 February  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4970882