K822xcomplaint
Ms Zs complaint is about the handling  of a claim made under her central heating insurance  
policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in April 2020, part of which is copied below: 
Ms Z contacted British Gas in March  2019, as her boiler was not working  properly.
British Gas attended on 9 March 2019 and replaced the printed circuit board (PCB) with a
reconditioned one. Ms Z said that not long after the engineer  left, the fault appeared again.
British Gas came back out the next day but couldnt  find any fault, as it was working properly
at the time of its visit.
In early April 2019, Ms Z contacted British  Gas again and said the boiler had only been
working intermittently and developed the same  fault again. British Gas went out again on
7 and 13 April 2019. It got the boiler  working each time but the fault apparently happened
again shortly after each visit  British Gas went back on 14 April 2019 and finally fixed the 
boiler properly  by replacing the PCB again,  with a new part.
Ms Z is very unhappy that it took so many  attendances to fix the boiler properly which  meant
that her and her family were without  heating and hot water for periods of time. Ms Z says her
husband and daughter  are both vulnerable. Ms Z says British Gas used second hand parts
which is why the replacement PCB didnt fix the problem. Ms Z says this also caused
considerable stress and inconvenience;  she had to keep calling British Gas and some calls
were not returned  and one call was terminated mid conversation by British Gas.  Ms Z also
says she had to keep taking time off work to accommodate  the appointments, as British  Gas
refused to book appointments  for after 5pm, when shed be home from work. Ms Z has
asked for the £60 excess she paid to be reimbursed, as the claim was not dealt with
properly; compensation for each failed visit, as she had to take unpaid time off work; and
£50 to cover  her call costs. She has asked for £350 in total.
British Gas acknowledges that the first replacement PCB was not a new part but was a
reconditioned second-hand part. It says that the failure of the PCB was clearly a
manufacturing fault of the part and beyond our control and it did everything it could, as
quickly as possible to complete the repairs. However, it offered Ms Z £60 compensation,
increased to £110  after the complaint came to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She didnt think British Gas should  refund
the excess, as the policy terms are that there  is an excess to pay each time there is a claim.
The investigator also said it is not unusual for reconditioned parts to be used, and the policy
terms dont guarantee  that only brand new parts  will be used.  Overall  the investigator
thought the £110  compensation offered was reasonable to reflect the trouble caused to
Ms Z, including having to make calls.
Ms Z doesnt accept  the investigators  assessment.  She doesnt  think  the investigator has
properly investigated  her complaint and has not understood the issues.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me.
Ref: DRN48290542my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It took five visits to fix the boiler properly and this meant that it was only working
intermittently for around a month and sometimes  left without heating and hot water.
The policy doesnt  provide that reconditioned  parts would be used in any repairs.  The policy
says: well try to get parts from the original manufacturer or our approved suppliers. This
suggests in my opinion  that all spare  parts will be new. However, even  if I accepted it was
not unreasonable in principle for British Gas to use reconditioned  spare parts (which I dont,
given its policy terms) any part used  should  be fit for purpose.
It seems  to me that the failure of the PCB that British  Gas installed on 9 March 2019  was
more likely than not because it was not a new part. When a new PCB was installed over a
month later, it immediately resolved the problem. I do not think  it is reasonable for
British Gas to try and absolve itself of responsibility for that on the basis that it was a
manufacturing fault in the part, when it was a reconditioned part which was apparently not fit
for the purpose  it was required.
As a result of using  a part which was not of adequate standard, four more  attendances were
required, Ms Z had to make numerous  calls to British  Gas and her boiler was failing
intermittently. This will have  undoubtedly caused  additional, unnecessary and avoidable
stress and inconvenience to Ms Z and her family.
Ms Z has also said she had to take unpaid time off work although theres  no proof of any
loss of earnings. I dont  think  it is inherently  unreasonable that British Gas was not able to
arrange appointments for after 5pm on weekdays (and could only offer 8am to 1pm, to 1pm
to 6pm slots).  I note British Gas did also offer Ms Z a Saturday appointment, so she didnt
have to take time off work. However,  none  of this would have been necessary  at all if the
repair had been  carried out properly on 9 March 2019.
Having considered all the circumstances, I do not consider the compensation offered so far
is adequate to reflect the trouble caused to Ms Z. I consider that the sum of £250 is
appropriate and in line with awards  made  in similar  cases. This is to reflect  the distress and
inconvenience caused and to also cover  the cost of calls Ms Z had to make.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require British  Gas Insurance Limited to pay Ms Z £250
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by its handling of this claim.
Ref: DRN48290543responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
British Gas has confirmed  it has nothing further to add. 
Ms Z has confirmed she accepts my provisional  decision and has nothing more  to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision. I remain of the opinion that British Gas should pay a total of £250  
compensation for its handling of the claim. 
final decision 
I uphold this complaint  and require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Ms Z £250
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by its handling of this claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4829054