K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that London  and Country Mortgages Ltd submitted a mortgage  application  
in her name without her consent.
background
Ms B had a joint mortgage on a property with her estranged partner, Mr B. In September  
2018 Mr B contacted L&C to discuss re-mortgaging the property. The adviser recommended  
that he transfer to a different rate with the existing provider. An application was submitted to 
the provider and a mortgage offer was issued. 
Ms B subsequently complained that she hadnt  been  aware  that Mr B had been attempting to 
arrange a re-mortgage. She said that this was a breach of data protection  legislation  as her 
data had been used in the application.
L&C didnt uphold  her complaint. It said:
Its adviser had exchanged several  emails with Mr B that gave the impression that 
Mr B had been in discussion  with Ms B about the mortgage options. The adviser had 
no reason to believe that Ms B was not aware  of the re-mortgage application and 
content to proceed;
Although Ms B had said that the application  breached data protection  laws,  it didnt  
agree. And it referred Ms B to the Information Commissioner if she remained 
dissatisfied on this issue;
Wherever possible, L&C would cease processing if it was aware  that one of the 
applicants was not content to proceed. Ms B had been given the option  of ceasing 
the processing of her data but had been  happy  to proceed with the application and 
the processing.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Ms Bs complaint should be upheld.  He said, in 
summary:
It isnt the role of this service to decide if a business has breached data protection  
laws. As an informal dispute resolution service, we will look at the impact  an event 
has had on someone and decide  what outcome is fair and reasonable;
In this case, he could see that Mr B had given  L&C Ms Bs information in order for the 
product transfer  application to be completed;
There is no regulatory requirement  for a lender to obtain customer signatures  for 
product changes. This is also the case when a broker is acting as an intermediary. 
Many product changes are completed  online or over the telephone, with just the 
online or oral consent of one party being enough. This is because joint parties  to a 
mortgage are assumed  to be acting in unison unless the lender has been  put on 
notice;
He didnt think that L&C had done anything wrong, as it had no reason to suspect 
that Ms B was unaware of the product change, or that she might object to it if she 
was aware;
When L&C received Ms Bs complaint she had confirmed that she was happy to 
proceed with the new product.
Ref: DRN47682862my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B is concerned about the way in which her personal data was used by L&C.  As our 
adjudicator explained, it is not the role of this service to decide whether a breach of data 
protection has taken  place. That is something  for the Information  Commissioners  Office  to 
decide.
What I can do is look to see whether L&C has treated Ms B fairly in the circumstances of this 
complaint. And, having carefully considered the circumstances, Im not persuaded that L&C 
has done anything  wrong. I appreciate that this will be a disappointment for Ms B, so Ill 
explain why Ive reached this decision.  
Our adjudicator has explained that joint parties to a mortgage are assumed to be acting 
together. And, having  looked  at the evidence,  I can see that Mr B led L&C to believe that he 
was in contact  with Ms B, and that that he had made  her aware  of the application.  So Im 
satisfied that L&C had no reason to suspect  that Ms B wasnt aware of the proposed  change, 
or that she might object  to it. 
When L&C received Ms Bs complaint and spoke to her Ms B confirmed that she was happy 
to proceed with the new product as it is Mr B who pays  the mortgage, and because  Ms Bs 
equity in the property was not affected by the change. 
Although I appreciate that the situation has caused  Ms B upset, Im not persuaded that this 
was caused by L&Cs  error. So I dont require L&C to do anything further. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4768286