K821x#15complaint
Mr A is represented by his solicitor,  Mr C, in bringing his complaint. Mr A complains that 
Scottish Widows  Limited refused a claim under life assurance and critical illness policies that 
his late wife held with Scottish Widows  Limited. Rather than accept his claims, it voided the 
policies on the grounds of misrepresentation.
To resolve  his complaint,  he wants Scottish Widows to honour claims under both policies in 
full.
background
I issued a provisional decision to the parties  on 25 November 2020.  A full copy of that 
decision is attached  at the end of this final decision, and it forms part of my full determination 
of this complaint.   
In my provisional findings I explained  why I reached a different outcome  to that of our 
investigator, and I believed  that the complaint  ought  to be upheld.  I agreed with Scottish 
Widows that there had been  misrepresentation by Mrs A (or indeed Mr A) on the policy 
application since Mrs As application missed off several important diagnoses. Nonetheless, I 
did not accept  the categorisation of the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. 
In my view, the guidance set out by the Association  of British Insurers  in its Code of Practice 
on Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly was clear  that categorisation of 
deliberate or reckless  misrepresentation does not apply  in the circumstances of a plausible 
explanation for the misrepresentation, supported by the facts and/or other credible mitigating 
circumstances. Mrs As medical records showed  that she spoke little to no English and relied  on Mr A  who 
himself had evidenced learning  difficulties  and a confirmed limited  IQ. The evidence  from the 
time of the claim also showed how Mr A had not understood or appreciated what was 
required in respect  of Mrs As medical history.  
It followed that I did not believe Scottish  Widows  had reasonably  concluded under relevant 
law and guidance that either  Mrs A or Mr A had acted deliberately  or recklessly when 
applying for Mrs As insurance  policies. I set out how I intended to uphold  the claims and ask 
Scottish Widows  to pay proportionate remedies for both life insurance payments.  I therefore  
asked it for further information regarding claim values and underwriting.   
Scottish Widows  said it had already  raised all of the arguments it wished  to make in respect  
of the complaint and so it didnt need  to make any further submissions. It responded to the 
request I made in respect  of retrospective  underwriting and provided calculations of the 
amended sums assured.   
Mr C replied on behalf of Mr A. He did not make any further submissions  either, but he said 
that Mr As distress  ought  to be a factor as he lost his wife in terrible  circumstances and has 
been living with uncertainty  for several  years because of the claim refusal. Further,  Mr C said 
the cost of legal  expenses  Mr A has paid ought to be factored into the compensation, as 
these equate to some  £15,000.  
Ref: DRN48687122my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  To confirm, my findings in this matter  
remain unchanged. This complaint ought  to succeed for the reasons set out in full within my 
provisional findings.  
I thank both parties for their responses. I note neither  party has made any material 
submission in respect of my findings  as to the outcome of the complaint. The additional  
comments relate solely to compensation. Ill address those below. 
Scottish Widows  has said that, if directed, it would use calculation dates which pre-date the 
suggestion I proposed (November 2016) in my provisional findings. It has said it would 
actually calculate  the claim values for both policies  as at December 2015,  because this was 
the date at which the evidence would have shown Mrs A had less than twelve  months to live, 
and therefore  it could have paid a terminal illness  payment as early settlement of the life 
assurance claims.  
Conflictingly, Scottish Widows has mentioned in its response to this service  that the 
evidence also showed in December 2012 that Mrs A would have satisfied a critical illness 
claim for cancer  as well; the evidence showed Mrs A had been  unwell for some time before 
the claim was pursued. However, I have not considered  that further as the retrospective 
underwriting guidance  it has supplied confirmed that the decision for the policy that had the 
critical illness cover was Life +100, CI exclude, TPD and PP decline. The correct date is 
therefore December  2015, the date both life claims could have been satisfied retrospectively. 
I thank Scottish Widows  for accepting it could  have paid claims sooner and agree these 
dates should be adopted. In the case of both policies, Scottish Widows has provided a full 
retrospective underwriting assessment,  showing how for both policies, Mrs A could have 
been offered life cover but at a rating of +100 for each policy.  
Applying the rating to the original sum assured is correct. The ABI Code explains how a 
proportionate remedy ought to be worked  out in cases of careless  misrepresentation  this 
means the insurer will work out how much cover the total premium  paid by the customer  
would have bought and pay that amount.  
Scottish Widows  has also confirmed  it will calculate interest for the period  December  2015  to 
December 2016  using its usual business rates  (rather than the 8% interest I will award  from 
December 2016  onwards  to compensate Mr A for the inability to access his claim payment). 
This is a fair and reasonable outcome where  the claim value was known earlier,  but only with 
hindsight after a final claim decision was made.  
In Mrs As case  for the first policy the revised  sum assured with the rating  applied  from the 
outset would have  been £13,516.55. Scottish Widows did calculate a sum assured as at 
December 2012  of £12,890.57 but for the reasons  Ive said above, this is not actually correct 
 under the smaller policy  Mrs A could never  have  been offered critical illness benefit. 
Therefore, Scottish  Widows still needs to calculate the sum assured as at December  2015,  
when a life claim could have been  paid as early terminal illness  benefit.  
In respect of the larger policy, the revised  premium with the +100 rating applied would have 
been £74,199.81. As this policy provided level term cover, the same sum applies in 
December 2015  when a claim was payable.  
Ref: DRN48687123I have considered carefully the comments Mr C has made on behalf of Mr A in respect  of an 
award for distress and inconvenience  and the legal fees he has incurred, but I do not agree 
either should be awarded.  
Firstly, our awards are not intended  to fine or punish businesses  that is regulation, which  
forms the role of the Financial Conduct  Authority.  My role to reach  a fair and reasonable 
outcome in all of the circumstances  of a complaint. If I determine  that a financial business 
has done something wrong   and their customer has lost out as a result  I will instruct the 
business on what it must do to put things right. That is the payment of Mr As claims. 
The rules  governing this service also permit me to make a money award that I believe  to be 
fair compensation for pain, suffering,  distress, upset,  inconvenience or reputational damage. 
However, those awards are made  when  considering  the specific impact a mistake made by a 
business may have  had on a consumer. 
Mr A having  lost Mrs A in distressing circumstances and needing to go on to make a claim 
was of course incredibly  upsetting for him. But that Mrs A became unwell and sadly  passed 
away is not the fault of Scottish Widows.  It is unfair  to ask a business to pay extra 
compensation to make  up for events  that it was not responsible for. What I need to consider 
is if it made any errors, omissions or failings  which caused financial loss, distress  or 
inconvenience. I do not believe that in refusing the claims (and this decision reversing that outcome) 
Scottish Widows  caused Mr A any additional upset, distress or inconvenience such  that 
further compensation is warranted. Types of examples where modest  awards are made 
could be in the manner of handling a claim or associated  customer  service. 
I do not believe an award should be made merely because  Scottish  Widows declined  the 
claims in the first instance. It was entitled to reach  a decision on the evidence  before it. The 
remedy for contesting  a decision was that Mr A could  to pursue a complaint to the Financial  
Ombudsman Service - and where a claim should have been paid and not declined,  8% 
interest is applied  from that date,  and that is part of my award below.
Similarly, I do not agree that any legal costs incurred  by Mr A should form part of my award 
in upholding this complaint. I do not agree that falls within my remit to award fair 
compensation for financial loss. This service  is free to any eligible complainant  and does not 
require legal  representation. That Mr A has decided  to take this route  and appoint  Mr C was 
a matter for him. It is not a cost which ought  to be reimbursed by Scottish Widows. 
Ref: DRN48687124my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Scottish Widows Limited  must therefore to pay the redress Ive set 
out above to Mr A.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2021.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN48687125Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr A is represented  by his solicitor, Mr C, in bringing his complaint. Mr A complains that Scottish 
Widows Limited refused a claim under  life assurance and critical illness policies  that his late wife held 
with Scottish Widows Limited.  Rather  than accept his claims, it voided  the policies on the grounds of 
misrepresentation.  To resolve his complaint, he wants Scottish Widows to honour  claims under both policies in full.  
background
Mrs A applied for personal protection policies in June 2010. The policies  were sold to Mrs A by an 
adviser at a Halifax branch. They were underwritten and provided by Scottish  Widows. 
The first policy was a critical illness policy with life cover on a decreasing  term basis, with an initial  
sum assured  of £18,018 for a 20 year term. The second policy offered level life assurance of 
£165,000 for a 17 year term.  
In late 2015, Mr A called Scottish  Widows  on Mrs As behalf to make a claim for critical illness benefit. 
She had sadly  been diagnosed  with a type of cancer approximately two years earlier. 
Mrs A sadly passed away due to progression of her cancer before Scottish  Widows was able to 
provide an outcome on the critical illness claim. It therefore  also considered a claim under  the life 
assurance provisions.  
In November 2016, Scottish  Widows  wrote to Mr A to explain it was not able to accept Mr As claim. It 
said when Mrs A applied for the cover she answered no to several policy questions. These included 
having had a mental  illness  requiring treatment, awaiting results of investigations, being asked to 
return to her GP for further  check-ups, suffering from muscular or joint conditions,  having had any 
mental illness requiring  time off work or attendance at a medical facility and having  any type of blood  
disorder. It also noted Mrs A had said yes to a question  about blood  pressure but then did not go on 
to answer a supplementary question regarding  treatment.  
When it received  Mrs As claim, Scottish Widows wrote to Mrs As GP. Having  done so, it discovered  
she suffered  from a number of conditions  from 2006 onwards which had not been  disclosed in her 
policy application, including a type of anaemia, Sjogrens syndrome, hypothyroidism,  systemic lupus  
erythematosus (SLE) and osteoarthritis.
Though it noted Mr A had said Mrs A was well at the time of her application  aside from her blood  
pressure, that did not excuse that she had failed to answer many questions  incorrectly. 
Scottish Widows  said that if it had known about Mrs As full medical history,  it couldnt have insured 
her for critical illness cover.  It would have offered life cover, but with a rated premium. However, since 
it categorised Mrs As actions as reckless under relevant law on misrepresentation,  it said it was 
entitled to void the policy from the outset.  
In a letter  of 22 January 2018, Mr C raised  a complaint  to Scottish Widows.  He said that Mrs A had 
never completed the form and couldnt have known or understood  any of its content. 
In March 2019, Scottish Widows rejected  the complaint. It said that it was unwilling to change its view 
that Mrs A had misrepresented on her policy application, and that she had done so recklessly. 
Despite this, it had returned the policy premiums to Mr A.  
Scottish Widows  also reiterated  that it was not responsible for the sale of the policy, Halifax  was. It 
therefore could not answer questions about the sales process. If Mrs A hadnt understood what she 
Ref: DRN48687126was asked,  she had time at home to reflect  on the answers she had given. It was for this reason that it 
sent her a copy of her answers to check on 1 July 2010.   
Mr C brought Mr As complaint to this service. He said Scottish Widows was aware  (or should  have 
been aware) that Mrs A did not speak English  and therefore had to rely on the interpretation  of Mr A 
when completing her policy  application. However, Mr As English is also very poor, and it should  also 
have been clear to Scottish Widows that he could not have  acted as an interpreter  for complex 
medical information.  Finally, he submitted that at the time of the application, Scottish  Widows failed to 
obtain a medical report.  
Scottish Widows  clarified  with our investigator that it believed Mr A had agency for Mrs A under case 
law, and whether Mrs A had misrepresented and not told Mr A, signed  the form knowing Mr A had 
completed it incorrectly or whether Mr A misrepresented  when translating for Mrs A all of these 
actions amounted to deliberate or reckless misrepresentation for the purposes of the relevant law on 
consumer disclosures.   
An investigator reviewed  the complaint. He did not think it should succeed. He said he thought  the 
questions were clear  and unambiguous,  and the application was signed  was by Mrs A. Whilst  he took 
on board Mr Cs comments in respect of Mrs As command of English, he said he had looked at 
previous doctors letters  and hospital correspondence,  and he didnt think  that the application process  
was out of step with those. Mr A had translated for Mrs A previously in medical discussions,  so he 
was satisfied  that Mr A was capable  of passing important information onto Mrs A and acting  on her 
behalf with knowledge of her history.  
Our investigator also noted that Scottish Widows had decided that because  it felt the 
misrepresentation was so extensive that it would  cancel both policies  from inception. Looking  at the 
amount of answers that were incorrect, he felt it had not been unfair  to reach  that conclusion.  He 
believed it was entitled to void the policies  and treat them as if they had never  existed by cancelling 
them at the point of application and returning the premiums.
Though he realised  that the cancellation of these policies  has left Mr A with an outstanding  mortgage 
that the larger  policy  was designed to repay and that it had been a very difficult time for him, he did 
not feel Scottish Widows  had done anything wrong.
Mr C said Mr A disagreed.  He submitted that it was unreasonable for Scottish  Widows to allow Mr A to 
act as an interpreter, when  Mrs A was a vulnerable  person  and it was clearly a conflict of interest for 
him to do so. He also felt there was no reasonable basis to determine that Mr A was acting as an 
agent for Mrs A, and therefore he had not misrepresented. 
The investigator was unwilling to change  his view. He said he disagreed  there was a conflict of 
interest in Mr A interpreting for Mrs A - if anything the reverse may have been true, had Halifax 
employed a translator then that would  likely be where  any conflict  might lie.
Further, he said he could  not comment on any actions as they related  to Halifax. This complaint was 
against Scottish Widows   he thought it had behaved fairly in the circumstances.  
Mr C still disagreed. He felt that there had been  a failure  to Mrs A in safeguarding and that both 
businesses had failed  in a duty of care to Mrs A.  He also noted that:
to allege Mr A was capable of interpreting for Mrs A assumes he had a sufficient command of 
English;
however, medical evidence  (Mr C supplied  a medical report dated  13 June 2019) shows that 
Mr A has learning difficulties;
the report  sets out how Mr A could not have  reasonably understood what  the questions  
required;
Scottish Widows  took the risk on Mrs A signing  a declaration on 30 June 2010,  just two days  
after the application because she could  not understand it without it being translated  into Urdu;
Ref: DRN48687127Mr A should  not have  to bear the brunt of that risk now;
Scottish Widows  relied  on Mrs As declaration  Mr A did not give the same declaration;
it is patently untrue  that an answer can only be false if the giver of the answer understands 
the question;
Scottish Widows  was not relying  upon the answers given at the interview, but was relying 
upon the verification of the adviser  two days later;
at the application interview Mrs A was not competent to answer  the questions  because  she 
did not understand English  and the adviser had to rely upon Mr A to act as the interpreter.  
Our investigator was unwilling to change his view.  He said he did not think  Scottish Widows had 
unreasonably relied on what it was told in the policy  application, and it had not been informed 
otherwise about Mr A or Mrs As capacity.  
Scottish Widows  made some further comments.  It noted that the line of complaint Mr C is pursuing  
remains one which relates to the conduct of the sale. Any concerns about the conduct  of the sale 
should be responded  to by Halifax, as the business carrying out the sale and the business  entity 
responsible for the sale. 
It also said neither Mr or Mrs A notified it at any point prior to this claim of any reason why it may not 
be appropriate to rely on the information submitted on the application forms. 
Scottish Widows  also felt there was some  inconsistency  over Mr As capacity as a translator, since he 
was able to act for Mrs A in various medical  consultations, yet the medical report supplied by Mr C 
suggested Mr A lacked  any ability whatsoever to provide assistance at medical appointments.
The complaint has now been passed to me.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Id like to thank both parties for their patience whilst  this matter  has awaited a decision. Having looked 
carefully at the submissions  and evidence, I have reached a different outcome to that of our 
investigator. Though I do consider there has been misrepresentation  on the policy application,  I do not 
accept the categorisation of the misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. That means  I do believe  
the claim should have been met  albeit  proportionately. I shall explain  my findings below.  
This complaint is against  Scottish Widows  and its actions as the insurer of Mrs As policy. In bringing 
this complaint, Mr C has made extensive submissions  about the actions of Halifax and arguments on 
the basis  that Scottish  Widows and Halifax  operate on the same basis or that there must be an inter-
agency agreement to that effect. However, they do not. They are separate  businesses.  Scottish  
Widows directed Mr C in its final response letter to Halifax for any complaint aspects about  the sale of 
the policy,  for which that business takes responsibility.  
I therefore  cannot examine  the actions  of Halifax that Mr C has raised (such as regulatory  and 
safeguarding concerns) in the context of this complaint  as it is a different business and if necessary,  
the subject of a separate complaint. These findings are limited to the liability of Scottish  Widows as 
the insurer.  
When applying for insurance,  if an applicant  doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant  information  in 
response to a clear  question its known as misrepresentation. 
Industry guidance and relevant law on consumer disclosures in insurance contracts  allows  an insurer 
to consider if any misrepresentation  occurred from the outset of a policy. If the circumstances around 
a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation  may have occurred within  an application, its 
entitled to consider what ought to have happened at that time. That is what Scottish  Widows  has 
Ref: DRN48687128done. When it sought medical evidence to verify Mrs As critical illness claim, it became apparent that her 
medical history  was notably different from that set out of her policy application, with several  questions  
failing to give details of a number of conditions, and therefore Scottish Widows had cause to revisit  
what was disclosed at the time Mrs A applied  for the policies.  
Mrs As GP report lists several  conditions  that were  not told to Scottish  Widows, as set out earlier in 
this decision. Im not going to examine them further here, as neither  Mr A nor Mr C have disputed  Mrs 
As medical history.  What  Mr C has made arguments about  is the reason for the failure to answer  
questions relevant to that history. 
However, Mrs A did sign a declaration on 30 June 2010 which confirmed that she had not withheld 
material facts and was in good health aside from any conditions  that she may have disclosed. 
Unfortunately, as Ive said already, Mrs As application missed off several important diagnoses.  
Though Mr A was required to translate for Mrs A at the two meetings with Halifax, Scottish Widows is 
not at fault for the omissions. It reasonably explained to Mrs A the importance of accurate information.  
It follows that I believe there was a misrepresentation  (or more accurately a number of 
misrepresentations). Relevant questions were not answered correctly, and this meant Scottish 
Widows did not have the right information on which  to make an underwriting decision. It ought to have 
received that information, and the onus was on Mrs A (or Mr A translating from Mrs A) to tell Scottish 
Widows about it. Once a misrepresentation has been established, relevant law on disclosure in 
consumer insurance contracts says that it should be classed as either deliberate/reckless  or careless. 
For the reasons  Ill go on to explain, I disagree with Scottish Widows  categorisation  of the 
misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless.  I consider  the categorisation  was careless as defined  
by the Association of British Insurers (ABI) within its Association of British  Insurers Code  of Practice  
on Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly  and the relevant law on consumer 
misrepresentations. I note the latter requires  that it is for the insurer to show that a qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless  and I do not believe that test has been met. 
The Code says that, under notes on misrepresentation that is deliberate  or reckless  that the overall 
principle is that the remedy of avoiding  a policy from the outset should be confined  to the most serious 
cases of misrepresentation .
However, the Code goes on to clarify how this category does  not apply where  (7.3.1) Having 
investigated the matter, the customer has a credible explanation supported by the facts for the 
misrepresentation having  occurred  and/or there are other  credible mitigating  circumstances.
Though Halifaxs  adviser did not make note about Mrs As language  limitations,  Mrs As medical  
records clearly demonstrate  that she spoke little to no English. Throughout the records there are 
suggestions that she required  translation  to Urdu. She was not able to provide  information to Halifaxs  
adviser without the help of Mr A. In those records, Mr A is referred  to as a capable translator  for the 
most part. Nonetheless,  in one medical  record of 28 January 2008 the consultant psychiatrist 
confirmed to Mrs As GP that he felt it necessary  to arrange to interview Mrs A with an official 
translator instead of Mr A.    
Furthermore, I am mindful of the content  of the most  recent medical report  supplied by Mr C from a 
clinical psychologist shows Mr A to have diagnosed learning difficulties and a limited IQ. When  Mr A 
discussed the application process with Scottish Widows in November 2016,  it is apparent that he did 
not appreciate  what was being asked of Mrs A. He had assisted her in making disclosures (such as 
her blood pressure) as they related to the current time. He had not understood or appreciated what 
was required in respect  of her medical  history and was insistent that he had passed on answers  as 
they applied contemporaneously (which was what he believed was required of Mrs A).  
I do not accept the view from Scottish Widows  that because Mr A works in a role as a type of driver 
Ref: DRN48687129that communicates with the public that this contradicts the findings of his medical report  in relation to 
his cognitive ability. I believe it more likely  that Mr A did not fully appreciate or convey the proper 
requirements of the application to or from Mrs A. And whilst that does not justify  the 
misrepresentation, it does not conform with deliberate  or reckless behaviour.
I do not consider  that either Mr or Mrs A knew what was expected of them  in relation to the 
application, such that it could be shown  that in the circumstances,  on the balance  of probabilities, they 
knew or must  have known that the information given (answering no to some questions) was both 
incorrect and relevant to Scottish Widows, or that they acted without any regard for the answers 
whatsoever. It is my view that Mr and Mrs As significant language and cognitive issues are mitigating reasons  in 
the particular circumstances of this case. 
I am also mindful that the Code goes further in respect of sales through an intermediary. The Code 
says insurers should always  try to establish the facts and credibility of allegations that 
misrepresentation arose as a consequence of failures during  the sales  process and their effect on the 
customer3.4.3 The insurer will always benefit from being able to provide an audit trail  regardless 
of whether the sale was intermediated  to show that clear questions  were asked  and understood 
[my emphasis], and that the customer had the opportunity  to check and confirm  the accuracy of their 
answers.I havent seen any objective evidence to show Mrs A, as the customer, understood what  was asked of 
her. That doesnt mean Scottish Widows shouldnt have  known her true medical position   of course  it 
should have, and it rightly reviewed that at the claim stage. But it is an explanation  for what  has 
happened here. That she merely signed a declaration two days  after the first meeting  as translated by 
Mr A is not sufficient to determine that she recognised  or appreciated what was being  asked of her, 
where she suffered  from mental  health issues and interlinked complex medical circumstances and her 
translator had limited capacity.  
Careless misrepresentation includes  anything from an understandable oversight to serious 
negligence, and I think Mr and Mrs As actions  sit within that range of responses.   
In the event  of careless misrepresentation, an insurer should consider  a proportionate remedy.  This 
means the outcome  will depend on what the underwriting decision would  have been had the 
misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance  could have  been offered  under different terms 
or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to reflect this. 
Scottish Widows  says it would never have offered Mrs A critical illness insurance if it had known the 
extent of her pre-existing medical conditions. However, it could have insured her for life cover,  albeit 
for a higher premium. 
I therefore  conclude that it ought to have paid life claims  to Mr A under both policies on a 
proportionate basis, rather than voiding them and returning the premiums to him.  
putting matters right
I must be fair to both parties in a complaint  and reach a reasonable outcome, whilst being mindful of 
relevant law and guidance.  For the reasons set out in detail above, I believe a proportionate claim 
ought to have  been paid to Mr A for an instance of careless misrepresentation by Mrs A within the 
2010 policy applications and unless  any additional evidence changes my mind  I will issue a decision 
confirming as such.  
Scottish Widows  should  calculate the value of Mrs As life and critical illness policy (because it had a 
decreasing term) as at November 2016. This was the date when it informed Mr A of the claim 
outcome. 
Ref: DRN486871210In response to this provisional decision, Scottish Widows should also provide confirmation  of the 
underwriting which would have been used in 2010 to confirm the rating that would  have been 
attached to the life cover under both of Mrs As policies. It would be helpful if it could confirm the exact 
values for each claim after the relevant rating has been  applied. 
I intend  to instruct Scottish Widows to apply the confirmed rating  to both policies and pay a 
proportionate benefit under  each policy to Mr A, plus interest and less any tax if appropriate.  
Scottish Widows  will be entitled to subtract the premiums  it has already paid to Mr A in December  
2016 from the claim values.  
I dont currently intend to make any other award.  
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint.  
I now invite  the parties to provide our investigator with any further submissions they may wish to 
make, by email  or telephone before 10 December  2020. Following this, I will issue my final decision. 
Jo Storey  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4868712