K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains about AXA Insurance  UK Plcs decision to decline her home insurance 
claim for theft due to a breach of the policys fraud  condition. 
 
background
Mrs Ns home was burgled in March  2018. She reported the crime to the police and made  a 
claim under her home  insurance  policy for items stolen by the thieves. AXA accepted  the 
claim and appointed loss adjusters to validate it. As a large  number of high value jewellery 
items were stolen, loss adjusters appointed their jewellery valuers. Proof of ownership for the 
items claimed was sought and investigations made.  
In January 2019 AXA wrote to Mrs N. It listed 14 items shed claimed  for that shed not 
reported as stolen to the police. AXA said it was concerned that Mrs N had tried to 
exaggerate her claim. It said shed been unable to provide a reasonable explanation  for why 
shed not mentioned the 14 items to the police.  AXA said it was also clear from the validation 
process that she was significantly  underinsured for valuables. It also said:
A solitaire ring now being claimed for had also formed part of a claim made in 2004;
That she had intentionally misrepresented  documentation in support of her claim for 
a high value watch  and that the watch being claimed was a counterfeit;
That another high value watch being  claimed  for was actually still in Mrs Ns 
possession.
AXA told Mrs N itd decided to decline her theft claim due to a breach of the policy  condition  
relating to fraud. It wrote  to Mrs N separately  to say that it was voiding  (cancelling) her 
policy. 
Mrs N complained to AXA about  its decision.  AXA looked into Mrs Ns complaint but didnt 
think itd treated her unreasonably in the circumstances. 
Unhappy with the outcome of AXAs investigation,  Mrs N complained to this service.  Our 
investigator looked into her complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld.  
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the report provided  by the loss adjuster, I can see that the valuation  Mrs N 
provided as proof of ownership for the ring was dated from 2004. Two days after that 
valuation was made a claim was made  for the ring. Mrs N said she had since replaced it and 
it was the replacement that was stolen in 2018. But no evidence  has been provided  to prove 
that shed bought a replacement ring. 
With regards to the high value watch,  I can see that there are conflicting  reports about 
whether this was a gift or bought on interest  free credit. There  is a receipt  for a watch  of the 
same make from 2008 but on checking  with the jeweller it seems  loss adjusters discovered 
the receipt was for a completely different (much lower value) model. There  are photographs  
Ref: DRN46549222of the watch claimed  for but loss adjusters view is that these  show  a counterfeit  watch. Loss 
adjusters identified that the watch claimed for retails  at over £100,000.  
The second  watch  claimed for is one of two of the same make  Mrs N says she had. But only 
documentation for one watch has been  provided. The photographs  show  only one watch  and 
the statements  provided by Mrs N, and her daughter, about the existence of two watches are 
inconsistent. AXA thinks there was only ever one watch and that it remains  in Mrs Ns 
possession.
The policy terms and conditions state:
If you or anyone acting  for you:
knowingly provides  information to us as part of your application for your policy that is not true 
and complete to the best of your knowledge  and belief; or
knowingly makes a fraudulent or exaggerated claim under your policy; or
knowingly makes a false statement in support  of a claim; or
submits a knowingly  false or forged document in support  of a claim; or 
makes a claim for any loss or damage caused  by your wilful act or caused with your 
agreement, knowledge or collusion.
THEN:
we may prosecute fraudulent claimants;
we may make  the policy  void from the date of the fraudulent act; 
we will not pay any fraudulent claims;
we will be entitled to recover from you the amount of any fraudulent claim already paid under 
your policy since the start date; 
we may not return any premium paid by you for the policy;
we may inform the Police of the circumstances.
Based on the items Ive commented on above, I dont think  AXA unreasonably thought that 
Mrs N was trying to exaggerate  her claim and gain something to which she wasnt entitled. In 
circumstances such as this, the policy terms clearly  permit AXA to decline any claims and 
cancel the policy.  I dont think, in the circumstances of this complaint  that it did so 
unreasonably. I can see that the items  claimed  were valued by loss adjusters at over six 
figures. I cant  ignore  that Mrs Ns policy showed  the total sum insured for contents  was 
£85,000, a total valuables  limit of £20,000  and a single valuable  item limit of £5,000. And 
that no valuables  were specified.   
It follows that Im unable to fairly and reasonably uphold Mrs Ns claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4654922