K821x#15complaint
Mr M complained about suitability and cost of the advice he received from Elementum Ltd, 
an appointed representative of TenetConnect Ltd, regarding his pension.  
background
In 2012 Mr M had a stakeholder pension plan into which no contributions  were  being paid. 
He was also the member  of his employers scheme,  into which contributions  were  paid. 
Elementum advised  Mr M to transfer the funds from his stakeholder  plan into a new personal 
pension plan (PPP) and to start making  regular contributions to the new plan.
In a suitability  report provided to this service, Elementum compared the value  that might be 
achieved by the transfer value. That comparison showed that Mr M would be materially 
worse off if he transferred,  taking  into account commission  payments.  
Elementum said it would receive commission  of 4% of the amount transferred and 50% of 
the first years regular  contributions.  It also said that it would receive ongoing commission  of 
1%. The transfer  went ahead  as advised  by Elementum. There  was no market  value 
reduction or transfer  penalty applied by the stakeholder plan provider. However its 
understood the new plan provider couldnt  accommodate paying Elementum 50% of the first 
years regular contributions; instead it was arranged to pay 12.5% of the first four years  
contributions.
Mr M went on to complain  about what had happened. He didnt think  hed been provided with 
sufficient information;  nor did he think there was any need for the transfer or any benefit to 
him. Mr M said he did not see the suitability report and had been  unaware of the commission 
that Elementum  would receive.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Ms complaint. He concluded the advice to transfer had been 
unsuitable, as Mr M was expected to be worse off in retirement  as a result. He also 
considered that Elementum had not demonstrated any need  for ongoing advice  such  as to 
justify the 1% a year commission.  
Initially the adjudicator said the advice to place regular contributions into a new personal 
pension might not have been unsuitable;  given the PPP had potentially  lower annual  
charges than Mr Ms stakeholder plan. The adjudicator also thought  it might  not have been 
appropriate for some level of commission for the transfer advice to be paid; albeit not the 
amount that was charged here. Mr M disagreed. He said that he would not have agreed to 
pay half of the first years  contributions as commission  for the advice. He reiterated that he 
had not seen the suitability report and had been  unaware of the commission  that would be 
paid.
The adjudicator concluded Mr M could have  been  advised to resume  contributions  to the 
stakeholder plan, although  its potential  charges  before commission were  0.3%  higher than 
the new personal pension. It was the impact of the commission on the regular contributions 
that made the personal pension more  expensive. He thought that a suitable investment 
would have been available through the stakeholder  plan based on what was known. 
Overall the adjudicator recommended  TenetConnect compensate Mr M for the impact  of 
both the 4% initial and 1% ongoing  commission, including  the loss of growth. TenetConnect 
accepted the adjudicators conclusions.  
Ref: DRN42426972Following the further representations and correspondence, the adjudicator went  on to 
recommend that TenetConnect additionally  compensate Mr M for the impact of the initial  
commission on the regular contributions  allowing for the slightly  higher charges on the 
stakeholder plan. TenetConnect didnt provide a response to that additional 
recommendation.   
TenetConnect was informed that I thought an award of £150 should  also be made  to Mr M, 
to represent the trouble he had been caused.  It doesnt disagree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on everything  Ive seen, I agree 
with the adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons. 
I accept, and it doesnt appear disputed,  that in this case, the advice to transfer was 
unsuitable. The advice  didnt benefit  Mr M, as once commission  was taken into account,  the 
transfer left him worse  off. I also accept that Mr M didnt appreciate the impact of the advice 
and transfer. Based  on what  Ive seen, and Mr Ms apparent lack of relevant knowledge and 
experience, I can understand this. 
Mr M could  have started making  contributions into the stakeholder plan he already  had; and I 
agree with the adjudicator, theres  nothing to suggest that there would not have  been  
suitable investment  options available to Mr M within this plan.
So I have  had to decide what TenetConnect should  do to address the loss caused by the 
advice. And I think the approach recommended by the adjudicator here overall is fair.
I have seen the initial thinking  about  whether Mr M should have a deduction  applied  to any 
loss sum due, to reflect an appropriate  cost towards  advice.  But based on what Ive seen, I 
accept in these  circumstances, I dont think thats required.
Ive seen TenetConnect were kept appraised of the adjudicators thinking and had the 
opportunity to make representations. TenetConnect accepted the adjudicators  initial view 
and recommendations.  It also accepted this is an appropriate situation for an award  to 
represent Mr Ms trouble,  and accepted  the amount proposed.
TenetConnect are required  to look at the impact  of all commission payments made  by Mr M, 
and compensate Mr M for all loss sustained as a consequence.  This does need  to be 
balanced here by making allowance for the small difference  in charges of 0.3% a year.
Ref: DRN42426973what TenetConnect Ltd need to do
TenetConnect Limited should reimburse  Mr M for all of the commissions on the transfer and 
the regular contributions and the impact  of those commissions on growth. 
To achieve this, TenetConnect should establish  the notional capital value that would now 
exist in Mr Ms personal pension had none of the commission  payments been deducted. To 
take into account the higher charges of the stakeholder plan, that notional capital value 
should allow  for a deduction of 0.3% of the whole  fund value a year, instead of the 
commission that was taken.
If the notional  value is higher than the current value, the difference is the amount of 
compensation I consider fair and reasonable.
The compensation should be added  to Mr Ms personal pension. That payment would be 
treated as if made  by Mr M and would  receive  tax relief. TenetConnect should therefore  
reduce the amount paid to allow for the tax relief that will be added.
Alternatively, TenetConnect should  reduce the compensation  by 20% and make  payment 
direct to Mr M. He can then pay the compensation into the pension  and obtain tax relief  on 
that payment.
In addition TenetConnect should pay Mr M £150 directly  to represent the trouble he has 
been caused as a consequence of the unsuitable  advice.
my final decision
So for the reasons given I uphold Mr Ms complaint against TenetConnect Limited.  It will 
need to complete the loss calculation  exercise set out above and pay all sums due to Mr M 
in the manner set out. In addition TenetConnect will need to pay Mr M the £150 I have 
awarded to represent  his trouble.
Under our rules,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Louise Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4242697