K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that Nationwide  Building Society  were unable to help her when she wanted  
to secure further  lending  with them, which meant  she had to find another lender.
background
Mrs D had a mortgage  with Nationwide. She wanted to port  her existing mortgage and 
secure further lending  with them.  Porting  means  that any product that Mrs D was on at the 
time, was transferrable to a new mortgage  under the same terms and conditions.  
She approached Nationwide  to discuss her requirements and they initially  agreed a Decision 
in Principle (DIP), indicating they could lend her up to £135,000. Mrs D found a property and 
then contacted Nationwide again to complete a mortgage application. At this point,  the DIP 
was declined. Nationwide said that this was declined because of information  on Mrs Ds 
credit file. Further applications were made but these  were also declined for the same reason.
Nationwide have confirmed that errors were made by their representatives because incorrect  
figures were  used for overtime pay and that they also used income from Mrs Ds P60 instead 
of her payslips. But they said that they were  still unable  to lend to Mrs D because of 
information on her credit  file.
Mrs D, not being  able to secure  a mortgage with Nationwide, sought help from a broker  who 
was able to secure  the mortgage  she wanted with another high street  lender. But because of 
this, Mrs D has incurred fees from the broker and had to pay the early repayment charge 
(ERC) to come out of her mortgage with Nationwide. The ERC cost her £2,600 which she 
wouldnt have had to pay if she was able to port her mortgage to a new property with 
Nationwide  and borrow the extra funds she needed.
Nationwide have offered to pay £250  in compensation for the errors they made.  And since 
our involvement they have agreed  to reimburse  the cost of the broker fee that Mrs D 
incurred. But theyve  said the ERC  was charged  correctly and in line with their terms and 
conditions.
Mrs D was unhappy with this so she brought the complaint to our service  where  it was 
looked at by one of our investigators. The investigator thought  that if Nationwide hadnt 
made the errors during  Mrs Ds applications, its likely they would have been able to provide 
sufficient lending to her. He said this because Nationwide  said that the reason they gave for 
the decline may have  been incorrect. So, he thought  that Nationwide should  also refund the 
ERC of £2,600.
Ref: DRN42279612Nationwide didnt agree  with this. They said:
they agreed that errors were  made  in assessing  Mrs Ds application which saw the 
maximum loan amount reduce from the DIP. And because  of this they agreed  to pay 
Mrs D £250 compensation along with the broker  fee
Mrs Ds borrowing was to increase from £51,000  to £135,000 and when the DIP was 
completed it gave a decline code relating to information on her credit file. They  dont 
believe there is enough evidence to show they would have offered Mrs D a loan for 
the amount she required, whether this was the DIP amount  or lower
it would  have been up to the broker to have explored the possibility of Mrs D 
continuing her mortgage  with Nationwide  before  approaching  another  lender  which 
would have meant the ERC  wouldnt have been  payable
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive considered everything carefully that 
Nationwide have said, but while Im sorry to disappoint them, I do agree with what the 
investigator has said, for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
From everything I have reviewed, its not in dispute  that a number of errors were made by 
Nationwide during Mrs Ds mortgage  applications. In their responses to Mrs D, theyve said 
that Mrs Ds P60 was incorrectly used because they should have used payslips instead. 
They also refer to a number of their representatives  using incorrect  figures for overtime  pay. 
It appears that different maximum loan amounts were provided  to Mrs D at each time she 
applied for a mortgage or had a discussion about it.
Ive thought carefully about the reasons  that Nationwide gave for declining  Mrs Ds mortgage 
applications. While Ive noted that they have said its due to information on her credit file, I 
dont think there is enough information to suggest that this was the case.
Ive looked at Mrs Ds credit file information  that she has sent us and I couldnt  see anything  
of obvious concern that would make  me think why Nationwide couldnt lend to her. I 
appreciate they may have their own internal credit  scoring system  but the fact that Mrs D 
was able to secure  a mortgage with another high street lender a short  time later, makes me 
think its possible that her credit file wasnt the issue.
In one of Nationwides responses  to Mrs D, I can see that they have also said that the issue  
for the decline may not be because of her credit file  as they originally said. They said it 
was instead due to the fact that the length  of term that was being entered was showing up as 
unaffordable. 
I think because of whats happened,  and the number of times Mrs D has made  applications 
with the numerous errors,  I cant safely say that its clear why the applications were declined.  
Its possible that Mrs D may have been  able to secure a mortgage with Nationwide if the 
information they obtained and entered was in fact correct  in the first place.  And if then it 
transpired that the term was unaffordable,  they could have given Mrs D other options for her 
to decide what  she wanted to do. And if it was declined  because  of the credit file report,  this 
would have been clear,  even to Nationwide, who then wouldnt  have  given different reasons 
for the declined applications.
Ref: DRN42279613Nationwide have said that Mrs D may have been  able to continue with her application on a 
lower borrowing amount but another credit search  would  have  been  required. Mrs D didnt 
want to do this, which is understandable because of the service that she had received up to 
that point. Nationwide said that Mrs Ds broker couldve looked  into the matter further with 
Nationwide as part of their advice rather than finding  a different lender. While I do 
understand that Nationwide are trying to say here, given what  Mrs D had gone through, I 
dont think its unreasonable that she wanted  to take her mortgage elsewhere. Its evident  
that she lost faith and confidence in Nationwide given the number of errors that they made 
with her applications. So I dont think this is a fair statement  to rely on in this individual case.
Because Mrs D has moved  her mortgage elsewhere and is paying a higher interest  rate than 
she would  have got with Nationwide, our investigator has since asked Nationwide  to 
calculate the difference between certain  rates. He has asked that they calculate  the 
difference between  what  Mrs D would have paid if she ported her existing  mortgage  with 
Nationwide, compared  to the rate that she is now on with her new lender. And he also asked 
that Nationwide calculate the difference between what  Mrs D wouldve paid on the additional 
borrowing (based  on Nationwides rates available at the time), compared to the product that 
she is now on with the new lender.
Nationwide responded to him and said that their overall position remained unchanged  in that 
they didnt agree the complaint should be upheld   although they did provide the calculations 
for the comparison of products which were helpful.
Given that Ive already  said I dont think its clear why Mrs Ds applications were declined,  I 
do think she could have  possibly ported  her existing mortgage onto a new property  and 
borrowed the additional money  she needed,  with Nationwide. Or at least  been given a clear 
accurate reason as to why they couldnt  help her, based on the correct  information  
something which Nationwide were given multiple opportunities to do.
Because of this, I think its fair that Nationwide refund the ERC that Mrs D has had to pay in 
order to come out of her mortgage to secure lending with another  lender. In addition to this, I 
do think that Nationwide should pay the difference in the monthly payments based on the 
interest rate products  that could have been ported and the additional borrowing, against the 
product that Mrs D has taken out with her new lender. This interest rate refund should  be 
worked out until the end of the product  term that Mrs D had with Nationwide as we wouldnt 
know what she would have done  once that product  had finished. However, I wont be asking 
Nationwide to refund 8% interest on the monthly payment differences because  there  would 
be an element of future loss as well as an element of past loss. So any difference that there  
might be would end up balancing itself out.
With regard to legal and valuation costs, I wont be asking Nationwide to refund these  
because Mrs D would have incurred  these costs regardless  they result from moving house, 
not from moving the mortgage. And from what I can see, she didnt pay a product fee for her 
new mortgage so there  is nothing  further that would need to be refunded  here.
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that she wouldve been able to secure sufficient 
borrowing with Nationwide and port her existing product. So I think this would be a fair 
outcome in the circumstances of this individual complaint.
Ref: DRN42279614Ive also noted  that Nationwide  have  written to their credit  reference agencies to remove  any 
unnecessary credit  searches which I think is a reasonable  thing to do.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint. I require Nationwide  Building Society 
to:
-pay their existing offer of £250 compensation to Mrs D (if this hasnt already been  
paid)
-reimburse Mrs D £395 which is the cost of the broker fee plus simple annual  
interest of 8%*  running from the date Mrs D paid the broker fee to the date of 
refund.
-refund  the ERC of £2,600 plus interest charged  at the mortgage rate (as it was 
added onto the new mortgage) running from the date Mrs D paid the ERC to the 
date of the refund. If Mrs D then uses this refund to reduce the balance of her 
new mortgage, and her new lender charges an early  repayment charge in respect 
of the balance reduction, Nationwide should  also refund the new lenders  ERC  
within 28 days of the date she provides it with evidence of having  paid it.
-calculate the difference between the monthly  payments  Mrs D wouldve paid had 
she ported her existing rate (for the existing lending amount)  with Nationwide, 
compared to the amount she would have paid each  month based on the interest  
rate she now has with the new lender,  assuming the same balance as would 
have been ported.  Nationwide  should then pay the monthly difference for each 
month between the date the old mortgage was redeemed and the date the 
product that should have been ported  would  end.  
-calculate the difference on what Mrs D wouldve paid on the additional borrowing 
(based on the Nationwide interest  rates available at the time, assuming she 
would have taken  the same  fixed  rate period and loan to value as she took with 
the new lender),  compared to the same amount on the product she now has with 
the new lender.  Nationwide should then pay the monthly difference  for each 
month between the date the old mortgage was redeemed and the date the 
product that should have been ported  would  end.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
*If Nationwide  considers  that it should  deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my 
award it may do so, but should give Mrs D the necessary certificate,  if she asks for it, so that 
she can reclaim  the tax from HMRC  if shes entitled to do
Ref: DRN4227961