K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr P says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr P says he wasnt told PPI was optional. Halifax isnt able to provide all the 
paperwork from the time. Thats not unusual or surprising as businesses  often  only 
keep records for six years. Halifax has sent in a copy of an application form it says 
was being used at that time.   On it, theres a section about PPI. To take out PPI, the 
customer wouldve had to select the box saying they wanted it. The box couldve 
been left blank if they didnt want PPI. I think it was made clear on the form that PPI 
was optional. Ive not heard anything to make me think  that paperwork  like this 
wouldnt have been used when the PPI was sold to Mr P. I cant  know what  was 
discussed at the meeting, but I dont have enough to fairly conclude  that Mr P was 
misled into believing  he had to take PPI to get the card. I think  it more likely  he opted 
to take PPI, completing the paperwork to say he wanted it. I can understand why he 
may not remember that now, given how much time has passed. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr P so it had to check  that it was right for him. 
Mr P said he didnt  need PPI because of his work benefits. Based on what Ive seen 
of his circumstances at the time,  I think PPI was suitable for his needs. He was 
eligible to take out the policy  and it appeared affordable. I cant  see that he was 
affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  Mr P said if he 
was off sick, he was eligible to get full pay for 6 months and half pay after that for a 
period. The policy wouldve  paid out on top of Mr Ps work benefits,  allowing him to 
use these to meet his other household expenses. The policy  wouldve paid out for up 
to 12 months per successful claim. He said he had no other  means to make his 
repayments. So, I still think  the PPI couldve provided him with a useful benefit.  
Mr P says the information he was given about PPI wasnt clear, in particular about 
the costs and benefits. Its possible  the information  Halifax gave Mr P about  the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr Ps said but these points dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr P paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr P back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax has already  paid Mr P back some  of the cost, so it doesnt  need to do anymore.
Ref: DRN45533662my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4553366