K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained that IGO4 Limited  unfairly  cancelled  his car insurance policy and its
charges were unfair.
background
In February 2018  Mr C bought a car insurance  policy through a broker IGO4  limited via a
comparison website. IGO4 arranged  for an engineer to fit a telematics  box to Mr Cs car as
this was a condition of his policy.
When the engineer  arrived,  he noticed Mr Cs car had modifications. After discussing the
modifications with IGO4, Mr C was told his insurer wouldnt provide  cover  for his car. So the
engineer didnt fit the telematics box. IGO4 gave Mr C notice  of cancellation. A week  later
Mr Cs policy  was cancelled. IGO4 gave  Mr C the option to cancel the policy  himself.  This
meant he wouldnt have  to declare a cancellation by an insurer when buying future
insurance. This would  have made  a difference  to the price hed pay and the choice of
insurer.
In March 2018 IGO4  told Mr C he owed a balance  of £107.58. Mr C had paid £254.50
toward his policy. He complained to IGO4. He didnt think its cancellation fees were
proportionate for the length  of time the policy was in place.
IGO4 said it charges were  fair and set out in the policy documents it sent to him when he
bought the policy.
Mr C asked us to look at his complaint. The adjudicator initially thought it was unfair for IGO4
to charge an engineers missed appointment fee  as Mr C didnt miss the appointment. And
she thought IGO4 shouldnt charge £115 to fit the telematics box as it wasnt  fitted and could
be used for another policyholder.
IGO4 didnt agree. The adjudicator thought on review that it was fair to charge the engineers
appointment fee. This was a third party company and the engineer had attended. But she
still thought it was unreasonable for IGO4 to charge for the telematics box. No data had
been stored as the box hadnt been used.
The telematics box charge was £115.  IGO4 said Mr C owed £127.58 as a charge of £20 was
added when it passed Mr Cs details to a debt recovery agent.
The adjudicator recommended IGO4  write  off the debt completely. IGO4  didnt agree. 
I issued a provisional decision on 14 December 2018. In addition  to the adjudicators  
recommendations, I thought IGO4 should provide  a refund for the additional  products  Mr C 
bought but didnt use. 
Mr C hasnt provided any comment on either view by the adjudicator, or my provisional 
decision. IGO4 accepted  my provisional  decision.  So the case has been returned to me for a 
final decision.
Ref: DRN43444912my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators recommendations for IGO4 to waive  the telematics box fee of
£115 - and therefore the total amount  it says Mr C owes it.
IGO4 has shown that Mr C was asked a clear question about  modifications when he applied
for his policy  online. And Mr C and his father spoke to IGO4 and confirmed again that there
were no modifications to the car. Mr Cs car had tinted windows and painted callipers.
Mr C said he didnt deliberately misrepresent  this information. He said he didnt think it would
make a difference. IGO4 has provided evidence from the underwriter of Mr Cs car that it
wouldnt have provided insurance if Mr C had told IGO4 about the modifications. And IGO4
said as a broker  if Mr C had disclosed the modifications  its possible it could have found
an insurer that would have provided cover.
So I think IGO4 carried out the cancellation process correctly and in line with the policy.
IGO4 gave Mr C the opportunity to cancel the policy himself. This means that Mr C doesnt
need to tell future insurers that a previous insurer cancelled his policy. And the insurer  might
have decided to void the policy for careless  misrepresentation. These events can have a
negative impact on the price Mr C would pay for car insurance. So I think IGO4 acted
reasonably here.
Mr Cs policy  said;
If you miss the appointment to install the black box or our installation team attend
but are unable to install  the black box, you will be charged a missed appointment fee
of £45.
As the engineer attended and wasnt able to install the black box because  of the 
modifications, I think it was reasonable for Mr C to be charged the £45 fee.
IGO4 said it charged £115  for the following:
Its charges for setting up the policy and;
The cost of the black box and installation.
It says the costs for the first year of running the telematics box is £150. But I dont think  its 
reasonable for IGO4 to charge Mr C for the black box. It wasnt fitted or used.
IGO4 charged Mr C a cancellation  fee of £75. I think its reasonable to charge this as a
business has set up costs and administration costs  when  it arranges and cancels a policy.
The fee of £75 isnt out of kilter with other  insurers and brokers  in the industry.
Because Mr C didnt think the fees IGO4 charged  him were fair, he didnt pay the balance it
asked for of £107.58.  So it passed Mr Cs details to a debt recovery agent and an additional
charge of £20 was added.  We asked  IGO4 to pause the debt recovery  agents  actions  while
we investigated  Mr Cs complaint.
Ref: DRN43444913As I dont think IGO4 was reasonable  to charge Mr C a fee for the telematics box, I think it
should reduce  the amount  it says Mr C owes by £115. This means the difference he owes is 
made up of the charge for being passed to a debt recovery agent. I dont think this is fair. So 
I think IGO4 should waive  the amount it says Mr C owes completely. And it should ensure 
any negative credit markers relating to this debt are removed.
Mr C bought additional products when he bought his policy.  This was for motor legal
protection at £28.50 and roadside assistance at £49.99. IGO4 told Mr C that if he cancelled
his policy  after 14 days, no refund  would  apply for the additional products he bought.
If he cancelled his policy within 14 days,  a full refund of the additional  products would be
provided  as long as no claim  had been made.
We have a long standing approach to refunds for additional products on cancellation. Even if
a business sets out that a refund wont be given on cancellation, we look at each case  on its
merits to see if this is fair.
Sometimes its obvious that the administration costs  to cancel  an additional product will
outweigh the costs of the product itself. For example, if Mr C had the benefit  of motor legal
protection for six months at £20 and the cost to cancel it was £10, we wouldnt expect a
business to provide a pro rata refund. And if a claim has been made, then I dont think  a
refund should  apply.
But in this case, Mr C made no claim under the additional products.  It was apparent  before
the 14 day period  that his policy was going to be cancelled. And so from very early on, it was
clear that Mr C wouldnt benefit from the additional  products he bought. In my provisional 
decision I gave IGO4  the opportunity to demonstrate that the administration costs  of the 
additional products outweigh  the refund. It didnt reply, so I think a fairer outcome is for IGO4 
to provide a full refund for the additional products Mr C bought.
I think this is a fair outcome to resolve  Mr Cs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require IGO4 Limited to do the 
following:
Waive the outstanding  balance  it says Mr C owes it.
Arrange for any negative credit markers  to be removed from Mr Cs record as a
result of the balance it passed to a debt recovery agent.
Provide a refund for the additional products totalling £78.49. 
Pay interest on the refund at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date of
cancellation to the date it refunds Mr C.
If IGO4 Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr C a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN43444914Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4344491