K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial 
Insurance Company limited (FICL),  as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale.  To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
Mrs B bought the policy in 1996  at the same time as taking out a store card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
The credit agreement had a section for PPI. It briefly explained what the policy was for and 
that if Mrs B wanted cover she could tick a box to say she was happy to pay for it. Whereas 
the box could  be left blank if she didnt want PPI. The box was ticked and Mrs B signed and 
submitted the agreement. Mrs B said she doesnt  remember buying PPI, but I think thats 
understandable given  just how long ago it was, and that buying  insurance isnt often 
memorable. And Ive not seen any evidence  that would show  someone added the policy 
without her permission.  So I think its most  likely that FICL made Mrs B aware she had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time. 
This sale was non-advised. That just means  FICL didnt go through  Mrs Bs circumstances 
or give her personal recommendation  (which wouldve been an advised sale).  Instead, it 
means they gave  Mrs B information about  the policy so she could decide for herself whether 
PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information FICL gave Mrs B about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs B chose to take out the policy, which implies she wanted 
this type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations.
Mrs B did have some cover through work. Its unclear how much this was, as she gave our 
service and FICL different amounts and wasnt able to provide evidence.  Taking  into account 
her work circumstances at the time, I think its most  likely that the PPI covered her for longer 
than her work benefits. It also paid out on top of her existing  benefits. I also understand that 
Mrs Bs friends and family  wouldve been willing to help, but there was always  the chance 
theyd be unable to help when needed. And this policy  meant Mrs B wouldnt have to ask her 
friends or family to pay her store card. So the policy could have been useful for Mrs B in 
case something went wrong. And so I dont think better information about  the PPI was likely 
to have put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN41210832my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4121083