K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  sold him an unaffordable 
loan and that its treated him unfairly  while hes experienced  financial difficulties.  Mr E has 
been represented when bringing this complaint. To keep things simple Ive referred to him 
and his representatives as Mr E throughout.
background
In January 2018 Mr E took out a £22,100 personal  loan with Nationwide for home 
improvements. This was taken out via an online application and had a repayment term of 
seven years. Mr E says his commitments  at the time were high and this was clear  from his 
bank and credit card statements. He says he was managing many loans and credit cards 
over a substantial period  of time, borrowing  money  to repay other  debts, and his regular 
outgoings amounted to around 70% of his salary.  And Mr E says he increased his overdraft 
limit around the time of the application.
Nationwide said when  considering whether to lend to Mr E, it used information hed provided, 
information kept with credit  reference agencies, and his history with the building  society.  It 
said Mr E had managed  an existing  loan well  with all repayments up to date. And it said his 
current account, while overdrawn, was within its agreed limit and also managed well. Overall 
Nationwide said Mr E had a good  payment history, and his credit file showed nothing  that 
would suggest  he wasnt managing his commitments  at the time  or historically. So it said 
on the basis of the application, the loan was approved.
Mr E said Nationwide  shouldve used what it knew about him to determine further lending 
wasnt feasible. And he said the online  application wasnt  fit for purpose as it didnt allow him 
to provide complete details of his debts, as well as allowing him to proceed when he left 
sections blank. 
Mr E brought his complaint to our service.  He said Nationwide lent this money to him 
irresponsibly, and if it had declined the application  as other  lenders did around this time  
his financial troubles wouldve come to light earlier and he would now have a reduced  overall  
debt. Mr E has described this situation as impacting his mental health. He asked Nationwide  
to write off his remaining  debts and asked for substantial  compensation for the distress  it put 
him through,  both for irresponsible lending as well as showing  a lack of understanding  during 
this difficult period in his life.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Es complaint. He felt Nationwides loan application 
was fit for purpose, but he said Nationwide  shouldve  done more to find out about Mr Es 
financial situation when  he applied as some sections  of the application were left blank. But 
he said even if it had asked further  questions it wouldve still found the loan to be affordable.  
So he said Nationwide didnt act irresponsibly by lending to Mr E at this time.
Mr E disagreed and said his company  had tax debts at this time. The investigator said the 
evidence of these  was dated  several months  after the loan was taken. And in any case,  it 
was for Mr E to declare  any company debts that hed taken personal responsibility for. 
Ref: DRN46225292The investigator also considered whether Nationwide  had treated Mr E fairly while he was in 
financial difficulties. He said Mr E had told Nationwide  he was in touch with two non-profit  
financial advice organisations when calling  about his redundancy. So Nationwide  didnt have 
a chance to signpost any advice services to him. And he said Nationwide agreed to cancel 
the direct  debit for the loan repayment to stop charges associated  with unpaid direct  debits.
The investigator said Nationwide  agreed to give Mr E two weeks  breathing  space while this 
was ongoing.  He said Nationwide considered stopping  interest  but chose not to in line with 
the relevant rules. And he said a business  must suspend active recovery  of a debt while  a 
repayment plan is being produced. But he said this wasnt the same  as suspending interest. 
The investigator said Nationwide  provided a reasonable period of time to develop  a 
repayment plan and after it found out a plan couldnt be produced,  it defaulted the loan. He 
said this was reasonable given Mr E had been unable  to make a payment proposal. Mr E 
disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 May 2019 explaining why I intended to uphold  the 
complaint. Ive summarised this decision below. Firstly I considered whether Nationwide  lent 
money to Mr E responsibly.
Lenders have the responsibility to carry out appropriate and proportionate checks for 
affordability. But there are no set checks that they must adhere to. So I considered 
whether Nationwide did appropriate and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself Mr E 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way.
Mr E had said his income  was around £5,000 a month. Nationwide  said it reviewed  
this against his current account statements which  suggested  this was accurate. I 
looked at his statements and agreed. So I was satisfied Nationwide  did enough to 
validate his income.
When assessing affordability, Nationwide said it used a combination of information  
provided by Mr E and verified data. Within the online application it asked Mr E for 
details of his credit card balances and loans. Mr E said he input a much lower figure 
as he didnt think the questions were clear.  However from what  Id seen of the 
application screenshots I was satisfied these were  clear  and that he had the 
opportunity to include the actual  figures.
Nationwide said it then compared the debt Mr E disclosed against credit reference 
agency data, and used the higher amount  out of the two figures (in this case the 
bureau data). It said this showed unsecured balances of around  £60,000.  Nationwide 
said it used the credit reference  agency data to take account of whether he was 
maintaining debts, such as monthly repayments  to his mortgage and credit  card 
accounts; as well as an approximation  for council tax and household expenditure. 
From this it calculated Mr E had a disposable  income of about £425 a month.
Nationwide said it considered Mr Es history  with it and said a previous loan had been 
repaid on time throughout its term, and that his overdraft  was well managed. From 
his loan history and account statements  I agreed this was the case. It also said it 
considered credit  reference agency  data for signs of financial hardship,  but there 
were none. From  what Id seen, this appeared to have been the case.
Ref: DRN46225293I was satisfied Nationwide  took account  of Mr Es income and expenditure to 
determine his disposable income. And I was satisfied it reviewed his history  with the 
society and reference agency data for signs of financial hardship.
So I was satisfied overall Nationwide took appropriate and proportionate  checks for 
affordability. And I thought these  checks showed  the loan was affordable to Mr E 
because his disposable income  exceeded his monthly repayments by some margin. 
And I didnt think the society  couldve known about  Mr Es wider  financial problems  
such as his personal liability for company  taxes.
I then considered whether Nationwide treated Mr E fairly while he was in financial difficulties.
When a borrower is in financial difficulties lenders should treat them  fairly,  and do 
what it reasonably can to help. In this case I said it wasnt  apparent to Nationwide 
that Mr E was in difficulties until he told it in March  2018.  This was because  he 
maintained payments  to the loan,  and his other accounts with Nationwide were in 
order. So I didnt think it needed to contact him pro-actively.
Id expect a lender  to treat a customer in arrears  with forbearance  and due 
consideration. So I thought about  what happened after Mr E told Nationwide of his 
forthcoming redundancy and financial difficulties.
In this call Mr E told Nationwide  he had an appointment  with a debt advice charity 
who had asked him to contact  his lenders and to see if they would freeze  any 
interest. Nationwide said it would consider stopping interest but said it would pass the 
matter back to its collections  team if it didnt  hear from him within  two weeks.  I 
thought this was fair in the circumstances as it would need to be kept updated.
Mr E called back a few days later to say he was still working through  his income and 
expenditure so couldnt consider any immediate options. He asked Nationwide to 
freeze interest for 60 days. It said it wouldnt freeze any interest,  but would stop 
contacting him for 30 days to give him breathing space.  I thought  this was fair to ease 
pressure on Mr E while he attempted  to make an arrangement.  And I thought it was 
reasonable for Nationwide  to not suspend interest at this time as it wasnt  fully aware 
of Mr Es financial  situation  for instance  he hadnt completed and shared an income  
and expenditure  form.
Some months after Mr E spoke to Nationwide  and said he was entering a debt 
management plan.  He said he didnt know how long it would take the debt charity 
supporting him to contact Nationwide. The following day he received a notice  of 
arrears letter. Nationwide  said it needed  to send this letter and was still waiting to 
hear from the debt charity. But it agreed  that further letters wouldnt be sent. I thought 
this was reasonable as Nationwide had still only corresponded with Mr E directly  at 
this point and hadnt heard from the debt charity to confirm his financial situation.
In June 2018 Nationwide contacted the debt charity  directly. It said it had provided 
advice only to Mr E, and that a debt management plan wasnt  in place. Nationwide 
queried this with Mr E in August 2018  and he said a plan was still being arranged.
Ref: DRN46225294Nationwide spoke  to Mr E again in September 2018. It said it still hadnt  heard from 
the charity, and that unless it did hear within a week it would start taking steps to 
clear the debt. I thought this was reasonable and Nationwide  had been  patient to wait 
for this time without any confirmation  from the charity itself.
Mr E called Nationwide in October 2018  to say hed been unable  to make a 
repayment plan so the account  remained in arrears.  It became clear  the account  
couldnt be brought up to date so it was defaulted  around  this time. I thought it was 
reasonable for Nationwide  to take this step and I was satisfied it gave him the 
appropriate notice  of its intention to do so.
I said Nationwide appeared to continue  charging interest on the loan in question  for 
around another two months  after the notice of default deadline  expired. Nationwide 
had said this was because the default  was registered sometime after,  in January 
2019. But I noted a notice  of default was issued  on the same  day for his other loan,  
and that this loan had defaulted in November 2018.
Its wasnt clear  to me why it took about two months for the default to be registered. 
And in the circumstances I thought  Nationwide shouldve registered the default and 
stopped interest  earlier than it did. So I said I thought it should refund the interest 
charges applied after this point. And I said Nationwide should backdate the default on 
his loan on Mr Es credit file to reflect it taking place in late October 2018 and not 
January 2019.  I also thought it should  do the same  with his other loan, and refund 
any interest applied  to that loan from late October 2018 onwards.
With the exception  of this two month  period, I was satisfied Nationwide acted fairly 
and reasonably  taking  into account  it had given him several months to arrange  a 
repayment plan while pausing debt collection activity, and considering Nationwide  
hadnt been provided with any supporting  evidence about Mr Es financial situation. 
So I didnt think it needed to suspend any interest  earlier  than Id recommended.
Mr E said Nationwide shouldve highlighted debt advice charities to him. But as he 
was already in touch  with various charities  when he called Nationwide, I didnt think  
hed lost out on any third party  debt advice.  Nor did I think Nationwide had a 
reasonable opportunity to flag any organisations in advance  of his contact in March 
2018. This is because  I didnt  think Nationwide could reasonably  have known he 
needed debt advice given his accounts were up-to-date.
Overall I thought Nationwide shouldve stopped charging interest  on Mr Es loans earlier  than 
it did. And I said I was intending to tell Nationwide to reduce Mr Es outstanding balances  to 
reflect an earlier  default date. I didnt think Nationwide  had acted irresponsibly when 
choosing to lend to Mr E. Nor did I think it acted unfairly in its dealings with him during his 
financial difficulties. So I wasnt planning to ask Nationwide to do anything further than this. 
And I explained I would consider any further  evidence before issuing my final decision.
Ref: DRN46225295Mr E disagreed and made a number of points in response.  Ive summarised  these below.
Mr E said his debts equated  to a years net income, and this was ignored  when 
assessing affordability. And he said the use of his overdraft was overlooked.
Mr E felt Nationwide couldve directed him to independent debt advice when 
speaking to a branch  representative. And he said it couldve  requested  an income 
and expenditure  document  earlier than it did.
Mr E said hed seen evidence to show the application had been initially  automatically 
declined. He said this showed it was therefore  reviewed manually by an advisor 
afterwards. And he felt this further  demonstrated  that an individual assessing his 
circumstances shouldve  seen it was unaffordable.
Mr E also reiterated a number of points hed made previously, including that he felt 
the online application form was not fit for purpose, that hed left important sections 
(such as council tax) blank. 
Nationwide didnt agree  or disagree with my provisional decision.  Although  it said it had 
since agreed to a partial settlement with Mr E, and it asked me to consider this before 
issuing my final decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive thought  carefully about Mr Es 
most recent comments. But Im satisfied Ive already  considered what I need  to fairly decide  
this case and that I set this out in detail  in my provisional decision, so I havent  changed  my 
mind. 
As Ive outlined previously, I considered the checks Nationwide  carried out. And Im satisfied 
these were appropriate and proportionate checks to satisfy itself Mr E would be able to repay 
his loan in a sustainable way. I understand Mr E feels very strongly  that these checks  
werent enough. But I disagree, and I dont think it acted irresponsibly when providing  the 
loan in question  for the reasons Ive given.
Ive taken on board what Mr E has said about  the application initially  being declined, and 
then accepted. But this doesnt  change my mind  because   whether or not the checks  were  
completed manually or automatically  Im satisfied appropriate and proportionate checks  
were completed and that these showed  the loan was affordable.
Ive also thought again about whether Nationwide treated Mr E fairly  while  he was in financial 
difficulty. Mr E says he had an initial meeting in branch where he flagged  his financial 
problems and Nationwides representatives werent  helpful. Mr Es given no details of which 
branch this was or when. And he says this meeting was entirely undocumented. From what  
Ive seen instead Mr Es first correspondence  with Nationwide about  his financial difficulties 
was in March  2018 when  he called.  And at this point he said he had spoken  to two separate 
debt advice services due to his forthcoming redundancy. 
Ref: DRN46225296So on balance, even  if Nationwide couldve brought his attention  to these services earlier,  
Im not persuaded this wouldve improved his situation. I say this particularly as he was in 
talks with the debt charity  for around six months before it determined he was unable  to agree 
a repayment plan. 
Mr E also said Nationwide shouldve  requested  income and expenditure documentation 
earlier than it did. But I think Nationwides decision to give Mr E space in contacting him 
showed patience  on its part and a willingness to act sympathetically at a difficult  time for him.
Ive considered Nationwides comments that following recent  contact with Mr E it has offered 
to accept a partial  settlement on his two outstanding  loan balances  he owes  about 
£26,000, but itll accept £10,500. I think this is a positive step towards the repayment  of the 
loans. But this doesnt change my thoughts on the date of the defaults being  recorded from 
October 2018. For completeness I think a default  date for each loan of 31 October 2018 is 
as good as any. 
 
my final decision
For the above reasons Im upholding this complaint  and Nationwide  Building Society should 
do the following  to put things right:
backdate the default  dates for both loans to 31 October 2018, and inform  the credit  
reference agencies  of the change; and
rework Mr Es loan balances  so that they are what they would have  been,  if the two 
loans had been defaulted on 31 October  2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4622529