K821x#15complaint
Ms O complains that Tilney  Investment  Management Services  Limited wrongly failed  to 
reinstate her stocks  and shares ISA account when requested  to do so, and misled her into 
thinking it had done this. Its actions  and non-actions resulted in a significant loss.
background
In May 2017  Tilney  was informed by Nationwide  that Ms O wanted to transfer her stocks  and 
shares ISA to its cash ISA. It therefore  encashed  the funds and sent a cheque to 
Nationwide.
On 7 June Ms O changed her mind and after three-way discussions Nationwide  returned the 
cheque. Ms O said she and Nationwide discussed this with Tilney and it agreed to re-instate  
the stocks and shares ISA, reinvesting  the money  in the same funds. But it only re-instated 
the ISA, and didnt  re-invest  the funds into stocks and shares  but kept them  in cash. Ms O 
transferred her ISA to another provider on 17 August.
When Ms O complained, Tilney said it had never  been instructed to move the money back 
into a stocks and shares  ISA, and could not have done this without Ms Os explicit  
authorisation.
An investigator at this service felt her complaint should be upheld.  While there was no record  
of the phone call/s between Ms O, Tilney and Nationwide, he felt that Tilneys  letter  stating 
that it had reinstated her account  implied  it was going to reinstate the stocks  and shares ISA 
not merely an ISA account in her name.  He also thought Ms O would reasonably  have 
concluded this from the letter. 
He also felt she would not have been  aware  that this hadnt  been done when she requested  
her ISA be transferred  to a new provider, resulting in her funds staying in a cash  account 
(against her wishes). He thought  she first became aware of this problem  in February 2018, 
for reasons Ms O had explained.
In his view Ms O could have taken action  in February 2018  to move the money into her 
favoured stocks  and shares and had chosen  not to. He therefore felt Tilney should pay the 
loss shed suffered  as a result of not having these  shares between  June 2017 and February 
2018. 
Tilney said it had no authority to buy back the shares; it could only reinstate her ISA account  
and leave the money in cash until instructed otherwise. It provided evidence from HMRC 
which it said explained how it was required  to act in these circumstances.
It said Ms O should have known that it could not - and had not bought - shares on her behalf 
given it had sent her contract note for the sale, specifying what  prices had been achieved,  
but never sent a contract note in relation to any re-purchase. It also said that its October 
statement spelt out that her money was being  held in cash along  with a letter  from the new 
provider earlier
The investigator then changed his view about the overall merits of the complaint and didnt 
feel Tilney should  be primarily  responsible for what had gone wrong. He did, however, still 
feel its reference to reinstating her ISA account  was unclear and potentially misleading and 
felt it should have done more to make Ms O aware  that it could not simply buy back her 
Ref: DRN42236322shares and that her money would sit in a cash account until she instructed it to do something 
different. He therefore  felt Tilney should  pay her £150 for the trouble and upset its failings  
had caused.
Neither party accepted his view.
Tilney reiterated that it had done  nothing wrong  and referred, in particular,  to the two 
statements from itself and the new provider in October and August 2017  respectively.
Ms O said:
When she spoke a representative of Tilney on the phone she was explicitly  told that 
she could reinstate her ISA with the funds  being  reinstated in the same stocks  and 
shares. During this three-way call it was agreed  that Nationwide  would  send a new 
cheque directly to Tilney for the reinvestment  to happen, and the Nationwide  person 
was present throughout this exchange    
When Tilney  agreed to reinstate the account  they should  have  acknowledged  receipt  
of the returned  cheque  and advised her where the funds  had been  placed. Why did 
she never get any confirmation  of this transaction?
It should also have  shared  a copy of the HMRC guidance document it recently  made 
reference to at the time. She had no knowledge of this procedure or the term ISA 
wrapper. If she had, she could  have acted immediately
When she completed the ISA transfer to another provider she enclosed  a copy of her 
last statement detailing the three  companies  she believed her re-purchased  stocks  
and shares were with. Why did Tilney  not contact her to set things straight  given it 
had her phone number?
When she first logged  in with the new provider she only checked the value of her 
holdings. She had no reason to doubt that this was the repurchased shares value
She did not feel she was in a position  to buy back the shares in February  2018,  when  
this problem first became apparent, for various  reasons (which she outlined)
She has no recollection of receiving  the 20 October statement
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons.
Tilney could not re-purchase the shares  without Ms Os written  instruction and therefore had 
no alternative but to put the money into a cash fund. To that extent it did nothing wrong. 
However, I have also considered what,  if anything, it ought reasonably had done  within its 
responsibilities to a non-advised  customer  to make clear what  was happening to the 
money it received  back.
It is obviously unfortunate that it did not keep a recording of the key phone call where Ms O 
alleges its advisor told her (and Nationwide)  that it could and would simply put this money 
Ref: DRN42236323back in the same mix of shares within her reinstated ISA. I dont believe it was legally 
required to keep this call beyond six months but it is nevertheless very disappointing  and I 
can understand why Ms O feels so strongly about  this issue i.e. this call being  wiped.
On balance, having taken account of everything thats been  said,  I think it is more likely than 
not that Tilneys  advisor either innocently misled Ms O (and Nationwide)  or was not 
sufficiently clear that an automatic reinstatement of the share portfolio was not possible. This 
may have  been  because  s/he was not fully cognisant with the rules  or simply didnt feel the 
need to spell things out. I accept this is speculation but I do feel, on balance,  that Tilneys  
advisor probably could  have done a better job.
I also share Ms Os view that it should have sent her an immediate confirmation that it had 
received the money back, reopened  her ISA account and had put her money into a cash  
account. I have  seen no evidence that it did this. I also share Ms Os view that the word  
reinstatement, unless  qualified, would reasonably have led to her to believe the shares had 
been repurchased. Equally, I dont think the fact she didnt receive a new contract  note ought 
necessarily have led her to realise  the money had stayed in cash. Given her apparent  lack of 
knowledge of the ISA landscape I suspect she thought the whole transaction  had simply 
been cancelled  or reversed.
Of course the fact that Ms O might  reasonably have believed  does  not mean Tilney is 
responsible for her ignorance. It was acting on an execution-only basis  so was not required 
to consider Ms Os circumstances or lack of knowledge or to offer proactive advice. 
So while she clearly didnt  understand what her money was simply in a cash  account I 
cannot agree that Tilney was primarily responsible for this. I further, I feel Ms O had a 
responsibility to check  any statements or letters she received. From what  Ive read,  I am 
satisfied that she received  a letter from her new provider referring to her cash  transfer and a 
statement from Tilney making clear what had happened.
So even though I feel Tilney bears some responsibility for her initial  confusion, this is a 
strictly time-limited  responsibility.
Overall, I agree  with the investigator  that Tilney should pay Ms O £150,  this being a modest  
but fair and reasonable amount considering its fairly minor failings albeit ones which  caused 
Ms O very considerable trouble and upset.
I recognise that both parties have made further points, which  I have considered, but I am 
satisfied that this is a fair and reasonable outcome given the respective merits of both 
parties arguments. 
Ref: DRN42236324my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Tilney  Investment Management  Services Limited to pay 
Ms O £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4223632