K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains, with the help of a representative,  that he was mis-sold high risk investments 
by Wealthmasters  Financial Management Ltd (WFM). The complaint focussed  on an 
investment in Green Oil Plantations  (GOP) and the switch  of his existing personal pensions  
to a newly set up Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) which happened before this 
investment was made.
background
Mr B attended the meetings with WFM  and signed  the paperwork with his wife  but, 
because this complaint  relates to Mr B only, I have referred only to Mr B and his 
circumstances within this decision.
In August  2011,  a client agreement and a fee agreement were  signed between Mr B and 
WFM. The client agreement classified him as a retail  client. On the same day WFM  
completed a fact find for Mr B; this recorded that he wanted to retire at 65.
There were some handwritten notes  on the fact find. These say, amongst other things, that:
As [Mr Bs first name] and [Mr Bs wifes first name] have a whole array of 
personal pension  [sic] with no real idea of what they have or where it is they have 
requested advice on review [sic] their existing arrangements to provide some clarity 
as to alternative options.
And
In light of the fragmented nature of their pension plans  they are looking to clarify 
arrangements as well as review their retirement objectives, they are looking to take a 
more speculative approach to maximise growth  potential whilst fully appreciating risk 
to capital [sic] and loss. Attitude to risk discussed in detail especially risk v reward  
and higher risk greater  capacity for loss of capital.
A pension  review report dated  6 March 2012  issued by WFM  says that Mr B was concerned  
about the performance of his pensions, that he wanted more flexibility  and that he no longer  
had any fixed intention  of retiring at the age of 65. So, he required a more flexible approach 
regarding investments and the drawing of funds.
It appears that WFMs adviser, Mr S, then met with Mr B to discuss the report.  A meeting  
note dated 14 March 2012  written  by Mr S says that having discussed the report it was 
agreed that the best option  was to switch Mr Bs existing  pensions to a Pure  SIPP with a 
family arrangement option.
This was to allow full flexibility,  including phased  retirement and drawdown, and to facilitate 
investment in various options including alternative investments.
The note also says that the loss of Guaranteed Annuities Rates (GARs) from two of Mr Bs 
plans was discussed as well as the higher  charges applicable to the SIPP  but, Mr S says 
in his report that Mr B was willing to accept this for the chance  of better performance and 
more flexibility.
Ref: DRN40572772Mr S represented WFM in a regulated capacity. He was also the managing director  of an 
unregulated business.
A pension  transfer  report was issued by WFM on 22 March 2012,  this set out Mr Bs 
circumstances, including  his pension provisions, investments and savings. Based on this:
Mr B had around £2,500 investable assets  outside of his pensions, this money was 
held in a cash  ISA.
Mr B held six personal pension plans.  The total value of these came to just over 
£67,000.
Mr Bs employer  did not offer a pension scheme at that time.
This report ended  with a recommendation that Mr B switch all of his personal pensions into a 
SIPP to allow full flexibility,  including phased  retirement and drawdown, and to facilitate 
investment in various options including alternative investments. 
On 23 March 2012, as part of the WFM advice process, Mr B signed  cancel and replace 
forms for each of the existing pensions that he was transferring into the SIPP, these listed  
the features  and pros and cons (as described by Mr S) of each of the pensions  and the 
merits of moving these to a SIPP. One of the points that was highlighted was the fact that 
two of Mr Bs existing pensions had GARs  attached to them.
On the same  day Mr B signed the SIPP  application form; this confirmed that the sale of the 
SIPP was advised  and that WFM provided  this advice. The form also asked if Mr B intended  
to appoint an investment  manager, yes was ticked in answer to this. WFM  was appointed 
as the entity providing this service. Mr B later elected to make regular contributions  to the 
SIPP.
On 16 May 2012, Mr S emailed Mr B and his wife saying that:
Pensions all finalised now and in a position to start the investments, how are you 
fixed to meet  up Thursday  24th May [sic] around 7:30pm?
The email  came from a WFM email address and included a WFM  footer. Mr B and his wife 
responded by email  agreeing to this. The GOP application  was signed on the day of the 
subsequent meeting.
On 28 May 2012 Mr S wrote to Mr B. The letter confirmed  that he had decided to invest  in 
GOP and Physical Gold. The letter was not on headed paper but refers to Mr S as the 
managing director  without reference  to which business the letter was from. Brochures for the 
chosen investments  and an SCC  guide to alternative investments were enclosed  with this 
letter.
Investments were then made through the SIPP as follows:
8 June 2012  Meteor (around  £3,000)
26 June 2012   GOP (around £17,000)
17 August 2012  Physical Gold (around  £3,000)
Just under £19,000 was placed in a deposit account and the rest remained in the SIPP 
account.
Ref: DRN40572773The SIPP provider wrote to WFM confirming that the monies  were  transferred to the GOP 
investment on 26 June 2012.
In July and August 2012 commission vouchers were issued by a third party  for commission  
to be paid to SCC for the GOP and Physical Gold investments respectively.
Mr B signed  a client agreement with SCC  on 14 April 2014. This set out, amongst other  
things that:
[name of Mr S unregulated business] is not regulated  by the UK Financial Services 
Authority and is not authorised to provide investment, or legal advice. Before  making 
any investment decisions  we recommend that you seek independent advice  on all of 
the information contained within any documentation provided to you by or on behalf  
of the investment providers.
And
The purpose of the introduction is to provide you with a general outline  and generic 
information in relation  to our range of alternative investments. Nothing contained in 
the documentation provided  or our website  should be taken  as advice or 
endorsement of the investment or its suitability to meet your financial objectives  or 
investment risk profile.
In 2015 Mr B complained to WFM. The submissions are extensive. Briefly, he complained  
that:
It was his understanding that he was dealing with the adviser (Mr S) as a 
representative of WFM  at all times,  but during the course of his complaint, WFM  said 
that GOP  was sold by Mr S unregulated business.
The distinction between Mr S acting in his capacity  as a representative of WFM and 
him acting in his capacity  as managing director of Mr S unregulated  business was 
not explained to him. This created a clear conflict of interests.
He trusted the adviser to act in his best interests  and not to put his monies  into high-
risk alternative investments.
Mr S, in his capacity as a representative of WFM, recommended  that Mr B move his 
pensions to a SIPP and invest in alternative  investments, such  as GOP.
Mr S did not, at any point, explain to him that GOP was an unsuitable high-risk  
investment.
It was not possible  for WFM to advise him on the setting up of a SIPP  without 
considering the underlying investment.
Suggesting that WFM had no involvement in the GOP transaction  is an attempt to 
game the system.
GOP  was a high-risk product that was not suitable for him.
The advice was not in line with the regulators Conduct of Business rules.
The advice was sought for the purposes of ensuring that Mr Bs retirement was safely  
planned for and it did not fulfil this purpose.
It had always been Mr Bs intention to retire at 65. Now he is not able to do so, as a 
result of the unsuitable advice.
WFM responded saying  that it had no involvement  in the sale of the GOP  and Physical Gold  
investments. Mr S was interviewed as part of WFMs investigation and he confirmed that 
Ref: DRN40572774Mr B was introduced to these investments by Mr S unregulated  business.  Because  of this, 
WFM believes that the complaint had been misdirected and ought to be referred to Mr S 
unregulated business.
The response includes a statement from Mr S. In summary, he says that:
Mr S unregulated business has not carried on any regulated activities since 2008.
Mr B was aware of the role of Mr S unregulated business and had been a client  of its 
since 2011, during  this time he had used  its services for guidance about Wills, Trusts 
and Powers of Attorney.
The assertion  that Mr B is still having  to work because of the failed investments is 
wrong as he always  intended to retire  at his normal retirement age. And, he would 
need to work  in any case because he and his wife had a repayment mortgage.
Mr B had built up a significant  amount of investment knowledge and experience.
He did not recommend  the alternative  investments in his capacity  as an adviser for 
WFM. Mr S unregulated business  introduced  Mr B to them, but no recommendation 
was given.
There was a clear divide between the regulated advice given to Mr B and the non-
regulated activities  undertaken by Mr S unregulated business.  Meetings were split 
into two parts, regulated matters were  discussed first and then Mr S unregulated 
business matters were dealt  with and there was a clear  distinction between the two.
No conflict of interests was created as the services offered by Mr S unregulated 
business were not offered by WFM.
The funds invested represented a small portion of Mr Bs overall net asset  value.
Full consideration was given to the underlying investments that were considered at 
the time of setting  up the SIPP in 2012  and risk warnings were given.
Mr S has also refuted Mr Bs claims that his actions were in breach of the regulators 
rules.
Unhappy with this response,  Mr B referred his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
WFM responded disagreeing with the adjudicator, in summary, it said that:
It is not in dispute that WFM did provide Mr B with regulated advice in relation to his 
regulated pension. But, it does dispute  the circumstances  around  his introduction to 
GOP.
Mr B has misdirected  his complaint against WFM. The complaint should be directed 
at Mr S unregulated business, as confirmed by Mr S.
Mr B was not introduced to GOP by WFM nor did it facilitate the investment or 
process the application forms.
WFM has no agency or other arrangement with any of the parties involved in the 
GOP investment.
Mr S unregulated business is a separate legal entity.
Mr S has been a self-employed adviser for WFM  since 2008  and it is only in this 
capacity that he was authorised to carry out regulated activities.
If Mr S gave  advice in relation to GOP in capacity as an adviser  for WFM, he would  
have been acting outside the terms of his contract.
WFM has provided evidence in support of all of the above assertions.
Ref: DRN40572775The adjudicator  awarded compensation for the switch of the policies that had GARs 
attached to them, but this is not something  that Mr B complained about.
WFM requested that if we do not agree that the complaint has been misdirected, it 
should be afforded the opportunity to provide a substantive response.  This would 
involve it asking Mr S unregulated business to put together a substantive response 
for it to put forward. It has not been  afforded  this opportunity.
WFM said that the adjudicator failed to properly  consider these points and it referenced other 
cases reviewed by our service where different outcomes were  reached.
I sent Mr B and WFM my provisional decision on 9 January 2018. The findings I reached in 
that are attached  and form part of this decision. I explained why I thought the complaint 
should be upheld.  In summary,  I found that: 
When giving Mr B advice WFM had to take into account the overall transaction  
including the source of the funds and the intended  investment strategy.
If it had done  so properly it ought  to have concluded that transferring his existing 
pensions to a SIPP to invest some of the monies  in high risk unregulated esoteric 
investments was not suitable. 
Suitable advice  would have been for Mr B to retain the existing pensions he had 
which had GARs  attached and either  retain the other pensions or consolidate  these 
into a cheaper product  such as a stakeholder plan. 
If WFM had given  suitable advice Mr B would have listened to this, so he would not 
have ended up in a SIPP invested  in GOP  or Physical Gold. 
I said that I would consider anything either  party wanted to add.
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision. The submissions  that have been made 
are extensive. I have considered these in their entirety. I have summarised the main points 
they have made below.  This summary  does not go into the same level as the submissions 
made, it is simply intended to provide an overview of the submissions made. 
What WFM said: 
The original complaint was only about  the GOP investment and it [WFM]  had nothing 
to do with that.
Mr B is happy with the SIPP overall  and the investments other than GOP, it continues 
to meet  his needs and objectives  whereas  a stakeholder or personal pension  plan 
would not. 
Prior to WFMs review  of his pensions he was unhappy with their performance.
Mr B has continued to employ the same  type of investment  strategy including  utilising  
the flexibility available.
A lengthy and detailed  advice process  was followed, which ensured that the advice 
given was suitable, that it knew  its client and that the client  understood the review 
process, including the advice  given.  
The conclusions reached on this case are not in line with those reached on other  
similar cases. 
Mr B had no interest in purchasing an annuity,  such options did not fit with his new 
flexible requirements  and would have resulted in tax implications, which he wanted to 
avoid. 
Ref: DRN40572776He was willing to forego  the benefits  of GARs   which were  discussed  with him at 
length  to take advantage of the flexibility available under the new contract. 
Mr Bs pension  has made an overall  gain. He has not suffered a loss. 
WFM had nothing  to do with GOP investment  and is in no way liable for it  but, the 
SIPP provider ought to have conducted  due diligence on the investments, so the 
complaint should be directed against it. 
Having knowledge  of something  does  not result  in responsibility for that thing, in this 
case the sale of GOP.  WFM  has provided  various scenarios in support of this 
assertion. 
Full consideration was given to the investment portfolio but due to the time required 
to transfer the monies and the market conditions at the time it was decided that it 
would not be sensible to choose specific investments  until the funds were in place. 
This was documented in the suitability letter. 
Discussions about Mr Bs pensions and objectives began a long time before the 
introduction of GOP,  so the transaction could not be said to have taken  place for the 
purposes of investing in GOP.
Mr B was introduced  to GOP  and carried out his own due diligence  before the 
meeting on 28 May 2012. 
Mr B was not an inexperienced  investor,  he has remained happy  with the SIPP,  its 
features and the regulated investments made  it is only the GOP investment that 
has given rise to the complaint and WFM had nothing to do with this. 
The SIPP advice and the investment advice should be separated. 
WFM maintains that it is not responsible for the sale of the GOP and it believes that 
information it has about a review being undertaken by the SIPP provider supports 
this. 
What Mr Bs representative said on his behalf:
He agreed with my findings as set out in my provisional decision, in particular, that 
WFMs unsuitable SIPP advice led to him transferring his personal pensions  in order 
to invest in high risk investments such as GOP.
He was never prepared to lose 100% of his investments or incur a significant loss to 
his pension income. 
His complaint stems from the negligent SIPP advice received from Mr S acting on 
behalf of WFM, which led to him investing in alternative high-risk  products such  as 
GOP. To say that his original complaint  had nothing to do with the SIPP is incorrect. 
At all times he relied on the advice given by Mr S, who he considered to be his 
trusted financial adviser and expected him to act in his best interests. 
WFM was at all times aware  that Mr S held various discussions at Mr Bs home  
where he advised him to consider alternative  investments  and on the SIPP  into which  
he should transfer his personal pensions. 
It is clear that Mr S of WFM  advised him on a SIPP which  would accept alternative 
investments such as GOP. 
Hes an ordinary unsophisticated retail  investor and relied wholly  on WFMs advice. 
It is not reasonable for a firm to advise on a SIPP without  taking the underlying 
investments into consideration. It is clear that Mr S of WFM introduced the concept of 
alternative investments  by promoting GOP, so Mr S was aware  of the intended GOP 
investment. 
The appendices  attached to WFMs response to the provisional  decision illustrate  
that: 
Ref: DRN40572777oMr B was classified as a retail  client and as such did not have a 
tolerance to invest in high risk esoteric investments. 
oMr S of WFM  advised Mr B on alternative  investments and the SIPP 
prior to the investment  in GOP. 
oAt all times Mr B relied on Mr S of WFM to provide suitable advice. 
At no time was the distinction  between regulated  and unregulated advice explained 
to him. 
At all times he believed he was being  advised by Mr S of WFM.
The evidence submitted illustrates that: 
oMr S of WFM  arranged meetings with him using WFMs address and 
not via his unregulated company. 
oAt all times, Mr S liaised with the SIPP operator and it corresponded 
with him as Mr Bs acting  financial  adviser.
oThe SIPP application  form appoints Mr S of WFM as the investment 
manager of the SIPP.  
oThe first time that Mr B became aware of the involvement of Mr S 
unregulated company  was when he received the letter  dated  24 May 
2012 with details of the unregulated investments made, which  arrived 
after the investments  were made.   
Mr B also referred to part of his witness statement  describing his recollections (his 
emphasis): 
I would never have  known about  Green Oil but for [Mr S name]. We discussed a 
number of investments  including Green Oil, Gold, big Yellow  Storage  and one or two 
other investments. He showed us brochures and returned later to discuss them. 
[Mr S name] made us feel we had made good  secure investments from the given 
advice.
At the meeting when we discussed GOP, [Mr S name] never mentioned  that he was 
not working as an IFA for Wealthmasters. He explained  and advised  us on the 
investment details for Green Oil, at this point we were still under the impression that 
the investment  was through  [Mr S name] and Wealthmasters. He also advised on 
Gold saying as a good backup  investment. We were (and still are) under the 
impression that [Mr S name] was working as an IFA on behalf of Wealthmasters. All 
correspondence from ourselves to [Mr S name]  was hand delivered via the 
Wealthmasters offices in [location  of offices] . At no time were  we ever made aware of 
a divide between  [name of Mr S unregulated business] and Wealthmasters. 
He did not tell me that GOP was high risk or that it was unregulated.  I was never 
aware that different companies  were doing  different services for myself as [Mr S 
name] was the only person I had dealt  with  I always considered him to be my IFA. 
Mr B and his wife also provided a response to WFMs comments  about their retirement 
plans:
We never had a conversation as to when we intended to take the annuity payment 
as at the time we were  both secure in our jobs, since  then our circumstances have 
changed as I [Mr Bs name] have now been  made redundant, due to this fact we 
have requested via [Mr S] to withdraw  monies  from our [name  of SIPP  provider] SIPP 
Ref: DRN40572778account but as yet we are unable to get a satisfactory response as to when this 
withdrawal will be completed.  
We had spoken  to [Mr S name] saying we would  be estimating our retirement age at 
65 for myself [Mr Bs name] and 60 for [Mr Bs wifes  name], we did question  details 
within paperwork we received where it stated that we intended to retire at 75 years of 
age, this was never our intention and had never said at any time to anyone  we 
intended to retire at 75, when we questioned [Mr S name] about this he advised this 
is just a standard age they put on the paperwork (or words to that effect) and said 
there was no need to take notice of it. We accepted  his reply  as we trusted him.
I wrote  to both parties setting out my revised  view of redress.  Mr B accepted the revised  
redress. WFM made further submissions disagreeing with my findings  and the proposed 
redress. In summary it said: 
During a meeting with Mr S on 21 August 2019  Mr B detailed  his plans to commence  
full drawdown of his pension  benefits under flexible drawdown. 
He intends  to use the funds for home improvements and  in line with the objectives  
stated at point  of transfer  to have full access to his pension  without the requirement  
to be tied to an annuity. 
Mr Bs current plans  support the original objectives, as set out at the time of the sale 
of the SIPP.  And, that these could not be met by way of annuity  purchase, even one 
with a guaranteed rate attached. 
As set out in Mr Bs complaint submission, his complaint is about the alleged  advice  
in respect of the GOP  investment only, not the SIPP. 
Our comments  in relation to Mr Bs background and his receipt  of regulated  advice in 
respect of his regulated pension and other needs from WFM  have not been  disputed.
The circumstances that led to the sale of GOP  are vehemently disputed  and 
significant evidence  has been  provided  showing  that WFM was not involved in this. 
The review of Mr Bs SIPP providers acceptance of the investment will compensate 
him for the GOP investment. 
Mr Bs full and continued use of the flexible benefits brings  into question our decision 
to expand the scope of the complaint  and, indeed, the award of compensation 
based on Mr B taking an annuity, which  he did not want and would not have  taken. 
Our latest response does not take into account  any of its additional objections, made 
in response to our findings. 
Mr Bs complaint should be redirected to the SIPP provider  for failing in its duties in 
respect of due diligence. 
I sent WFMs submissions  to Mr B and his representative for their comment.  Their  response 
was broken down  into topics  which I have summarised below: 
General points
Mr B remains of the view that the findings  reached in the provisional decision are 
accurate.
He did not have a speculative attitude  to his pension investments and was not 
knowledgeable in the world of pensions and unregulated investments.
Mr S was recommended by a family member and Mr B thought  he could trust him to 
act in his best interests. 
Ref: DRN40572779Mr S knew that Mr B was not an avid investor  and led him to believe that the course 
of action was in line with his objectives.  
The letter prepared by Mr S of WFM documenting their recent meeting is self-
serving, misleading and inaccurate. 
Purpose of the meeting
The primary purpose of the meeting was not to discuss Mr Bs pensions; this came  
up as a secondary concern during discussions.
The topic  of pensions  came up due to Mrs Bs decision to retire.  
Mr and Mrs B wanted to access monies from their pensions  in the most tax efficient  
way. 
Mr B wanted to release monies from his SIPP because  he wants to stop incurring the 
high SIPP fees.
Discussion about home improvement, the garden, lifestyle options and holidays 
arose during  general small talk. 
Their current financial position was not as outlined in WFMs  submissions, instead:
Mr and Mrs [Mr and Mrs Bs surname]  have purchased outright a mobile 
home (from a lump  sum from [Mrs Bs surname] pension) and intend to spend 
their retirement making use of it. They have plans to renovate  the garden, and 
we are told work on this starts this month.  This is being paid for from savings 
and the [Mr and Mrs Bs surname] do not need  to draw down (fully or 
otherwise) from their pensions to pay for this.
The motivation  behind discussing accessing  their pensions was to find a way to stop 
paying the high charges incurred within the SIPP  if Mr B did withdraw his pension  
this would be put into savings. 
Comments on the file note provided  by WFM 
 
The note is misleading  for a number of reasons. 
Mr S does  not mention that the reason Mr B wanted to release  monies  from his SIPP  
was to avoid the on-going high charges.
Mr S did not discuss the various available options (annuities, tax free cash, flexi 
access drawdown and uncrystallised funds pension lump  sums or combinations 
thereof). 
Mr B did not confirm that his objectives remained as they were when he originally 
transferred or that he did not want to be tied to an annuity. 
Mr B had not previously weighed  up the advantages and disadvantages of annuities 
as the note suggests, he simply  acted on Mr S advice. 
The note has been produced by WFM to support its position that it is not responsible  
to Mr B for Mr S negligent advice. 
Comments on the suitability report
Again,  this fails to mention that Mr Bs primary concern was the high SIPP  charges. 
The statement: confirming  their plans to commence full drawdown of their pension  
benefits, is wrong in line with the above. 
Mr B was not concerned with funding his lifestyle. 
Ref: DRN405727710Mr Bs intentions
Mr B has never been a speculative/high risk investor;  he has modest pension  
provision accumulated through many  years of hard work. He did not want to put 
these funds at risk. 
He followed Mr S advice to invest in high risk investments and then invested in 
further investments  to chase the losses. 
He is now in a SIPP, the charges of which eat away at any returns the investments 
may make. 
This is not what he would have  done if he had been properly advised of the value of, 
and protection  afforded by, his original pensions and what he was being exposed  to 
with regard to SIPPs and underlying high-risk investments. 
In respect of this, Mr Bs intentions have not changed  he is looking to remove  his 
exposure to the high charges associated  with the SIPP   and, he is not  and never 
has been  interested in high risk gambles  with his pension. 
One way of achieving this is to withdraw  his pension from the SIPP  and put it into 
savings. 
Comments on WFM submissions of 18 September 2019 
The arguments raised are issues that have previously been dealt with, it is not new 
evidence. 
Mr B did not confirm he wanted to drawdown his full pension and  contrary  to what  
is suggested in Mr S comments  he did not require  the money for major purchases  
(purchasing a motorhome/garden redevelopment). 
Mr B does  not believe he told Mr S that he does not want to purchase an annuity and 
does not recall the topic being  discussed during the meeting. 
WFMs insistence that Mr B should  pursue a complaint against the SIPP  provider is 
just another attempt  to shift the blame and avoid  liability for its actions and the losses 
it has caused Mr B to suffer. 
I sent a summary  of the submissions  made  as set out above  to both parties. The 
submissions made included new information and arguments. Because of this, I included  in 
my letter my findings taking into account the latest  submissions from both parties and gave 
both parties additional time to respond to these. 
What I said in relation  to the submissions made: 
The complaint raised  
I have taken into account everything that WFM has submitted  in respect of the 
complaint raised both before I issued my provisional decision and since  then. Despite 
its concerns I remain of the view that my interpretation of the complaint is reasonable 
and appropriate  in light of the circumstances. 
Mr Bs complaint submissions refer to issues beyond simply the sale of GOP; and
In any case, I can look beyond the complaint as expressed by Mr B, our remit is 
inquisitorial. 
WFMs responsibility for the advice 
Ref: DRN405727711There is no dispute that Mr B received regulated advice from WFM in respect of his 
pension.
That advice was to transfer his existing  pension plans  (including  two plans with GARs  
attached) to a SIPP. 
The primary reasons given for this within the suitability report were flexibility and 
access to a wider range  of investments such as structured products and alternative 
investments. 
WFM was appointed to the role of investment manager of the SIPP.
Once the pensions were  transferred  to the SIPP, investments were made in 
structured products and alternative investments.
WFM says that it had no involvement in the sale of the alternative investments and 
that these were sold by Mr S unregulated  company but, there  are numerous 
references to alternative investments within the advice for which WFM  has accepted  
responsibility. 
So, I think that Mr S did (at least)  have such investments in mind  when undertaking 
activities for which WFM has accepted  responsibility. 
Suitability of the advice WFM has accepted responsibility for
I remain of the view that the advice that WFM has accepted  responsibility  for was 
unsuitable.
Mr B did not need access to investments  only accessible via a SIPP.  
Alternative investments were  not suitable  for Mr B. 
There was no justification  for Mr B losing the valuable guarantees attached  to two of 
the policies transferred.  
There is insufficient evidence that Mr B required  flexibility   or, that he could afford to 
bear the risks involved with implementing a high risk strategy.
He would have  had some flexibility if he had retained the policies with GARs attached  
and switched the rest to a stakeholder plan  he could have taken  benefits  from the 
GAR plans at 60 and 65 respectively  and the rest at a point that suited  him and 
withdraw tax free cash from each. 
Even if Mr B did want to take a more flexible approach at retirement he did not need 
to transfer at the time he did and incur  higher fees for several  years  before he 
intended on taking  benefits from his pension.
Impact of recent events 
WFM says that it recently  met with Mr B and that that meeting confirmed that its 
advice was suitable, and that Mr B would never have agreed  to the course  of action I 
have suggested  would  have been  appropriate.  
Mr B says that he only wants to withdraw  the monies from his pension  in full now to 
avoid continuing  to pay the high fees being deducted for the SIPP.  
Clearly, there is a serious discrepancy  between what  WFM  has said about the recent  
meeting and what Mr B has said about  it. 
I am not persuaded that I should depart from my findings as set out in my provisional 
decision, I say this because: 
oThere is insufficient evidence that Mr B required  flexibility  beyond  that which 
would have been afforded had, what I have said would have been suitable  
advice, been implemented.  
Ref: DRN405727712oEven if I were to agree that a higher degree of flexibility was required, there 
was still no need to transfer  to a SIPP years before Mr B planned to draw 
benefits. 
oMr Bs circumstances are now fundamentally different to what  they were  
when WFM originally  gave him advice   for example, he no longer has 
access to the valuable GARs (which would have effectively doubled the 
income he could  receive via an annuity).  
Conclusions 
We have considered the complaint  fairly, reasonably and in line with our rules. 
There is no dispute that WFM is responsible for the advice to Mr B to transfer his 
pensions to a SIPP. 
The advice that WFM has accepted  responsibility for was not suitable.  
That advice resulted in Mr B suffering  the losses that are the subject of this complaint  
and WFM should compensate  him for that. 
Mr B did not make  any further  submissions. WFM explained that it had additional  
submissions to make and that it believed a hearing was required. I responded explaining that 
I did not think a hearing was required  and that I could fairly and reasonably decide the 
complaint without one but I did give WFM additional time to make  submissions. 
WFM made  further submissions. In summary,  in relation to the merits of the complaint, it 
said that:
It remains of the view that the decision  I reached  is unfair and unreasonable  in light 
of the contemporaneous evidence.  
The decision relies on making a finding as to what Mr B would have done if different 
advice had been given  that cannot  be judged  from the file alone.
The records provided evidence the process followed and the measures in place to 
ensure Mr B was in an informed position.  
All of the documentation supports WFMs position.
This is also supported  by Mr Bs decision to only complain about  the GOP investment 
and not the pension  advice. 
It was this services decision to extend  the scope of the complaint.  The service has 
an inquisitorial remit, but it disputes that we can extend the scope of the complaint 
itself.
The conclusions reached in this case go against findings  previously  reached  in 
similar cases and set an unreasonable precedent. 
My findings in relation to its liability would mean that any firm having given regulated 
advice in relation  to a wrapper could later be held responsible for non-advised 
unregulated investments made  by the consumer. 
The decision ignored the FCA requirements in relation to the advice process (fact-
find, suitability  report etc.) and instead  we based our assessment  on nothing but the 
consumers submissions brought  up only by our expansion of the complaint. By 
extension allowing any advice documents to be undermined by an unfounded 
undocumented claim. 
It has provided evidence of Mr Bs track record of investing  in capital at risk products 
 which  he profited from, so we cannot  assume that such investments would not 
have been considered  by Mr B on his own. 
Ref: DRN405727713It did give due consideration to the intended investments in Mr Bs SIPP as required 
by the FCA and gave appropriate risk warnings. 
Mr Bs SIPP provider  has already accepted its failings and liability  for accepting GOP  
allowing an opportunity for him to be compensated in full for his losses.  
WFM asked that we respond  to its comments and said that if on review  of these we do not 
agree that the case should  be rejected  or that a hearing should be granted   it requires 
time to seek  legal advice.  I have  written to WFM separately dealing  with the procedural 
aspects of its submissions and I will deal with its comments  in relation to the merits of the 
complaint within  this decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position  
and I am grateful  to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  
in their entirety. However,  I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not 
to address every point  raised in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching 
them.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and codes  of practice; and what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time.
The responses to my provisional decision cover a number of different points and arguments. 
I have broken these  down  into the below topics and addressed these in turn. As I have 
explained above, my provisional decision is attached and forms part of this decision  a 
number of the arguments raised by WFM in response to my provisional decision cover 
issues that I have  already  considered and addressed within that decision, so I have not 
repeated my findings in respect of all of these at length again. 
Our interpretation of the complaint 
Mr Bs original  complaint  focuses on the investment in GOP   which  is understandable given 
that this is the most obvious  loss suffered  but it is not limited to that in isolation.  Amongst 
other things  the original  letter claims that: 
Mr S (WFMs adviser)  could not advise  on the setting up of a SIPP  without 
considering the underlying investment. 
Mr S recommended  the SIPP transfer  for the purpose of investing in both standard  
investments and high risk alternative investments such  as GOP. 
It is clear that WFM advised on the merits of taking the money out of Mr Bs existing 
pensions. It is also clear  that Mr S advice  was sought for the purpose of ensuring 
Mr Bs retirement was safely planned for. Clearly,  GOP was not suitable for Mr B.
Mr Bs complaint to our service also refers to WFMs  file note dated 14 March  2012, which 
says: 
Ref: DRN405727714I advised  [Mr Bs first name] and [Mrs Bs first name] that leaving the fund invested 
without reviewing them was not an adequate solution as it failed to meet the majority 
of the previously discussed requirements  including, diversification, investment 
control, good growth potential, ability to invest outside of traditional  funds  including 
structured products & alternatives
unrestricted investment  choice that can facilitate investments  in any of the 
following stocks & sharesalternative investments etc (within  HMRC  guidelines)
We dismissed staying with the existing providersThe requirementscould only be 
achieved by transferring  to a new Pure SIPP Provider
This is by no means an exhaustive compilation of every reference to the wider transaction  
or to the activities for which WFM has accepted responsibility  but I am satisfied that this is 
sufficient to show that the complaint does  relate  to more than just the sale of GOP in 
isolation. In any case, as I have explained previously, I am not limited to looking at the 
complaint solely  through the lens of how it was expressed by the complainant. I can take a 
wider view. 
WFMs responsibility for the complaint and the sale of GOP
There is no dispute that WFM advised Mr B to take out a SIPP  and move  his existing 
personal pension  arrangements  into it. It was appointed as the investment manager  of the 
SIPP and it recommended the regulated investments  held in Mr Bs SIPP.  WFM denies any 
involvement in the promotion of and investment in GOP  and Physical Gold. 
The advice WFM gave  Mr B to move his existing pension plans into a SIPP  made the 
investments in GOP  and Physical Gold possible. One of the reasons given for taking out a 
SIPP listed  consistently throughout  WFMs  paperwork is access to investments  such  as 
alternatives, amongst other things. WFMs  adviser was one and the same person as that 
who WFM say sold the GOP  and Physical  Gold. These were the alternative investments 
which were made within the SIPP as soon as the funds  became available. 
A lot of WFMs  arguments focus around  the fact that it did not sell the relevant unregulated  
investments and that it therefore cannot be held responsible for these. I disagree with this 
assessment. WFM advised Mr B to switch his pensions to a SIPP,  gave advice on the 
regulated investments subsequently made and acted as investment manager as denoted in 
the SIPP application form. WFMs  relationship with Mr B was ongoing and it appears to have 
held ongoing  reviews with him during which the investments held within  the SIPP were 
discussed. 
WFMs role meant that it was responsible for the suitability of the switches,  the SIPP and the 
investment strategy  it was taken out to employ. It could not fulfil its obligations without  
considering the overall transaction. The GOP and Physical Gold  investments formed  part of 
this plan. The suitability  of the SIPP, in this instance,  was inextricably linked  to the suitability  
of the investments it was taken out to make. 
Within WFMs  paperwork,  some  of which I have referenced above,  there  are consistent 
mentions of alternative investments.  Including that other pensions would not be suitable as 
these would not allow access to, amongst other things,  alternative investments. WFMs 
adviser sold Mr B GOP and Physical Gold,  WFM says that he did this in his capacity as a 
director of an unregulated company. I have not seen evidence  of a clear  distinction between 
Ref: DRN405727715the activities undertaken by WFM and those undertaken by the unregulated company, other 
than a cover  letter enclosing documentation about the alternative investments, which I do not 
think is sufficient in this instance. 
In any case, even if I were  to accept WFMs  assertion,  I think that WFM  was, at very least, 
aware of the intentions  and activities of the unregulated company (given that one and the 
same person  was acting  for both) and had to take these into account as part of giving 
suitable advice  in relation  to the SIPP  and the intended underlying  investments  which  
WFM has accepted responsibility for. 
Suitability of the SIPP 
WFM was required to give Mr B suitable advice taking  into account the transaction  as a 
whole  including,  the switches, the SIPP and the planned subsequent investments, as set 
out above. 
I remain of the view that the course of action  recommended was unsuitable, taking into 
account Mr Bs circumstances, for the reasons I set out in detail in my provisional  decision. 
The switches into the SIPP represented  all of Mr Bs personal pension  provisions. Two of the 
plans that were moved into the SIPP had GARs attached to them. These were valuable  
benefits which I do not think there was any justification for losing  in this instance. 
The SIPP was subject  to higher charges than Mr Bs existing  plans. Mr B could have 
accessed a plan with appropriate  features  and suitable investments at a lower cost  either 
by retaining his existing plans  or switching all but the plans with the GARs  to a cheaper  
product, such as a stakeholder plan. These issues were exacerbated by the fact a significant 
proportion of the fund went into unregulated esoteric investments. 
Suitable advice  would have been for Mr B to retain the two policies with GARs attached  and 
either retain the remaining  plans or consolidate these in a stakeholder  plan. 
WFM has placed a lot of weight  on Mr Bs need for flexibility,  I have  not seen enough to 
persuade me that Mr B did really  require flexibility  and, I am not convinced he had the 
appetite for risk or capacity for loss to suit the approach recommended  in this instance. But, I 
would note that having a number of different plans would have afforded  a certain degree of 
flexibility in terms of staggering taking benefits, if he wished to do so. 
Benefits from the two plans with GARs attached to them had to be taken when Mr B reached  
60 and 65 respectively in order to benefit  from the GARs. This was somewhat restrictive, but 
the value these added far exceeded the hindrance of these  restrictions. For example, WFM  
has suggested that the tax implications would have made  taking benefits  from these plans 
on the relevant  dates  prohibitive. The GARs increased the buying power, so to speak, of
Mr Bs pensions  by considerably more than 20%. Taking into account  Mr Bs income at the 
time of advice and the size of his pension funds I do not think it is likely that he would have  
been subject to higher rate tax even if he took his pension benefits  whilst still working. 
In considering the suitability of the advice and what Mr B would have done if suitable advice 
had been given, I have taken into account  all of the information I have received from the 
parties to the complaint, including the August 2019  meeting  and related submissions.  As I 
set out in my recent letter, I remain of the view that the advice WFM  gave Mr B was 
unsuitable and that the revised redress I set out is fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN405727716Both WFM  and Mr B seem to agree that Mr B is looking to withdraw  money from his SIPP 
but they disagree on the reason for this. Mr B says that he only wants to withdraw the 
monies from his pension in full now to avoid continuing to pay the high fees being deducted 
for the SIPP. Whereas WFM  believes that this evidences that its advice was suitable from 
the outset and that Mr B requires flexibility. I do not agree with WFMs position:
There is insufficient evidence that Mr B required  flexibility  beyond  that which would 
have been afforded if what I have said would have been suitable advice had been 
given and followed. 
There was no need to transfer to a SIPP years before  Mr B planned to draw  benefits. 
Mr Bs circumstances are now fundamentally different to what  they were  when  WFM  
originally gave  him advice  for example, he no longer has access  to the valuable 
GARs (which would have  effectively doubled the income he could receive via an 
annuity making the purchase of an annuity considerably more attractive). 
I have not seen enough to conclude that Mr B was likely to ignore  suitable advice from a 
regulated adviser.  So, I remain  of the view that if WFM had given suitable advice Mr B would  
not have ended up in a SIPP invested in alternative  investments. This means that I think it is 
fair to hold it responsible for Mr Bs losses despite the involvement of other parties such as 
the SIPP provider.
Consistency
WFM has highlighted a number of cases that it believes contradict the outcome reached in 
this case. We look at each case on its own individual merits and I cannot comment  on the 
outcomes reached  on other cases but I am satisfied that my findings  are fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  
fair compensation
I have thought carefully about the points WFM raised in response to my provisional decision 
in terms of the complaint made  and its responsibility  for the activities complained  about   
but, I remain of the view that Mr B has complained about activities  which  WFM  has accepted 
responsibility for. 
I am satisfied that if WFM had acted fairly and reasonably and fulfilled its obligations this 
would have put a stop to the transaction and the business would never have arrived  at the 
SIPP providers door  because of this, I find that WFM should  compensate  Mr B for the full 
measure of his losses as set out below.
Mr B should  be put as closely as possible to the position he would  likely  now be in if he had 
not been given unsuitable advice. As I have explained above  I think that Mr B ought to have 
been told that switching to a SIPP was not suitable for him  and, I think that if he had been  
given suitable  advice he would have listened  to this.
If Mr B had been suitably  advised, I am satisfied  he would  have  retained  the policies with 
GARs attached to them (the GAR  policies), and taken  the benefits  when  they were  
payable. So WFM will need to work out what loss Mr B has suffered through not receiving 
these benefits  and what it would likely cost Mr B to now buy the future benefits that would  
have been payable.  
Ref: DRN405727717In relation to the rest of his pension plans (the other  policies),  I think it is likely that if Mr B 
had not been given  unsuitable advice he would have switched these plans  to consolidate 
them but made investments that were  suitable  for him. So WFM will also need to work out 
what those plans would be worth now, if that had happened.  
I have split the redress methodology into two main  parts one covering the GAR policies and 
the second covering the other policies. 
Due to the nature of the loss calculations both, in essence, involve comparing what  Mr B 
would have had if suitable advice had been given with what  he actually has in his SIPP  it 
would not be fair for the actual value of the SIPP established (including  any amount added  
for the purchase  of the illiquid investments, if applicable) to be deducted in full twice. So, the 
amount deducted/used  for comparison under each calculation should  be proportionate to the 
share of the original  value of the SIPP that the GAR  policies and the other policies 
respectively represented.  The same applies  to the comparison of the amount of tax free 
cash Mr B received with the amount he would likely have received if he had received 
suitable advice.  
Mr B withdrew tax free cash from his SIPP in February 2018, based on the statements we 
have seen from the SIPP provider, no further withdrawals have been made since. 
In order to undertake  the calculation WFM will first need to work out the current  value of the 
SIPP including any outstanding charges. Any illiquid assets should be treated  as set out 
below for the purposes of establishing the current value of the SIPP. 
Treatment of the illiquid assets held within the SIPP
I think it would be best if any illiquid  assets  held could be removed from the SIPP.  
Mr B would then be able to close the SIPP, if he wishes. That would then allow him to stop 
paying the fees for the SIPP.  The valuation of the illiquid investment/s may prove difficult, as 
there is no market for it. For calculating compensation, WFM should agree an amount  with 
the SIPP provider  as a commercial value.  It should  then pay the sum agreed plus any costs 
and take ownership  of the investment/s. 
If WFM is able to purchase the illiquid  investment/s then the price paid to purchase the 
holding/s should  be allowed for in the current transfer value (because it will have been paid 
into the SIPP to secure  the holding/s).
If WFM is unable,  or if there are any difficulties in buying Mr Bs illiquid investment/s, it 
should give the holding/s a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. In this 
instance WFM may ask Mr B to provide an undertaking to account  to it for the net amount of 
any payment the SIPP may receive from the relevant holding. That undertaking should  allow  
for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr B may receive from the investment 
and any eventual sums.
The GAR policies
Both of these policies  would  have paid benefits to Mr B by now.  To work out Mr Bs loss 
WFM should:
Ref: DRN405727718Establish the likely value of each of the policies at the original retirement dates had 
these not been  transferred. 
Establish the amount of tax free lump sum that would likely have been  payable to 
Mr B at his respective retirement  dates  under  each  policy.
Calculate what net income would have been paid to Mr B from his retirement date  
under each of the policies respectively  to the date of this decision. 
Establish the capital  cost for buying  an annuity  on the same terms as the ones Mr B 
would have been entitled to at his respective retirement dates under each of the 
policies based  on current annuity  rates (as at the date of this decision)  assuming 
he took advantage of the highest available  GAR  in terms of how he took his benefits. 
To establish the likely  fund value at retirement for the purposes of working  out the Tax Free 
Cash (TFC) and income that Mr B would have  been entitled to under each of the policies; 
WFM should first contact the providers of each of the policies and ask them  to provide  
notional values for each of the policies at the respective retirement  dates.
For the purposes of the notional calculation the providers  should be told to assume no 
monies would  have been transferred away from the policies, the monies  in the policies  would 
have remained invested in an identical manner to that which existed prior to the actual 
transfer and any regular monthly contributions  would have continued (it is my understanding  
that £20 per month was being  paid into the policy under which Mr Bs retirement date was 25 
April 2014).
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  notional valuations from the providers then WFM 
should instead arrive at a notional valuation by assuming half the monies would have  
enjoyed a return in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return Index and 
the other half would  have  enjoyed a return in line with the monthly average rate for the fixed  
rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as published by the Bank of England. The rate for 
each month  is that shown  as at the end of the previous month.  Those rates should be 
applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. That is a reasonable proxy for 
the type of return  that could have been achieved over the period in question.
oThe average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to their capital.
oThe FTSE UK Private Investors Income  Total Return Index (prior to 1 March  2017, 
the FTSE WMA  Stock  Market  Income Total Return Index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing  different asset  classes, mainly  UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
oI consider that Mr Bs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean  that Mr B 
would have invested 50% of his monies in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker fund.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise  that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objectives and attitude to risk. 
Ref: DRN405727719Once WFM has established the likely  value of each of the policies, had they not been 
transferred, at the respective  retirement dates  25 April 2014 and 25 April 2019  (either  by 
getting notional  values from the providers  or using the above benchmark), it should  work out 
how much  TFC Mr B would have been  entitled  to from the policies. It is my understanding  
that his entitlement under  each was 25%. To establish if Mr B has suffered a loss in respect  
of TFC WFM will need to compare  what Mr B would have received under the GAR policies 
with the TFC that he received in February 2018.  
As set out above, the comparison  of the TFC available under  each  policy will need to be 
compared to the proportion  of the TFC he actually received equal to the proportion  of the 
value of the original  transfer which each of the respective policies represented. So, for 
example, if the policy which I think Mr B would have taken benefits from in April 2014 
represented 30% (of the total amount originally transferred into the SIPP),  then the full 
amount of TFC that would have been available under  that policy (as per the above 
calculation) will need to be compared  to 30% of the TFC Mr B actually received. If the full 
TFC Mr B would have  received is more  than the relevant  proportion  of the TFC he did 
receive, then Mr B has suffered a loss. The total of the loss established under each of these  
comparisons will represent Mr Bs loss in respect  of TFC in relation to his GAR policies. 
WFM will need to pay interest, at a rate of 8% simple per year,  on the amounts that Mr B has 
missed out on. Interest  should be added as follows: 
On the full amount of TFC that Mr B would have received on 25 April 2014 from that 
date and up until he took TFC in February 2018;
Then, from the date Mr B received TFC and up until the date of this decision on any 
loss established   as set out above   in respect  of the TFC he would have received 
in April 2014; and
On any loss established in respect of the TFC Mr B would have  received  on 25 April 
2019, from that date and up until the date of this decision. 
For each policy it should be assumed  the residual fund would have been used to purchase 
an income using  the GAR, at the most  advantageous rate available  under each policy  and 
on the terms that would have  allowed for this. 
Based on what I have seen the relevant terms are as follows: 
For the policy which had a retirement date of 25 April 2014  single life basis  paid 
monthly in arrears. 
For the policy which had a retirement date of 25 April 2019  payable  monthly  in 
advance with a 3% annual escalation, 5 Year guarantee and 50% widows  benefit.  
Having established  the level of income that would  have  been available to Mr B under each of 
the policies, WFM will need to work out how much net income Mr B has missed out on from 
the point at which he would have taken  benefits under each of the policies and up until the 
date of this decision. I think  it is most likely that Mr B will be a basic rate tax payer in 
retirement so basic rate tax should be deducted from the gross amount payable.  Interest 
should be added at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date each payment would have 
been received  and up until the date of this decision. 
Once Mr Bs past loss has been  determined, WFM will need to find out the capital cost to 
Mr B of purchasing an annuity of the level established above and on the relevant terms on 
the open market.  
Ref: DRN405727720If WFM believes Mr B would qualify for an enhanced annuity then a quotation (for the 
purpose of establishing the capital cost) may be sought on enhanced terms. However, the 
inconvenience caused to Mr B in obtaining a current enhanced annuity rate should be kept 
to the absolute minimum. So, if a medical examination is required to obtain enhanced  rates  
then there  should  only be one examination (i.e. if obtaining a number of quotations were to 
necessitate a number of medical examinations then WFM will have to choose the provider it 
thinks is likely to be best positioned to underwrite for an enhanced rate in advance). If WFM 
opts to seek a quotation for an enhanced annuity rate then it will also be expected to meet 
any costs associated with Mr B undergoing any medical examination  needed for 
underwriting.
WFM will need to compare the sum of the capital  cost established for purchasing an annuity 
(as set out above)  for each of the policies to the share of the current  value of the SIPP  which 
is proportionate to the share of the original value of the SIPP  that the GAR policies 
represented. The resultant sum is Mr Bs loss in respect of future income from the GAR  
polices. 
The other policies
To work out what these policies would likely be worth now,  WFM should  work out what the 
amount switched would now be worth, had it performed  in line with a benchmark which 
offers a reasonable approximation  of the likely return  Mr B would have received. 
It should be assumed  half of the monies from the relevant policies would have enjoyed a 
return in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  Return Index and the other 
half would  have enjoyed  a return in line with the average rate from fixed rate bonds.  
For the purposes of this calculation it is to be assumed that any contributions which  were  
paid into the SIPP, and which have not been allowed for by way of on-going contributions 
into the GAR  policies  (after April 2014 this should increase by £20 because  Mr B would no 
longer be making  contributions to the GAR policy which he would have taken  benefits  from 
at that point), would have been paid into the Stakeholder Pension and on the same date that 
they were actually credited to the SIPP. It is to be assumed that each contribution would 
have been invested half in a fund showing an equivalent return  to the FTSE  UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return  Index and half in a fund showing an equivalent return to the 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. 
The notional value  of the policies established  using the benchmark  (as set out above) less 
the share of the current value of the SIPP which is proportionate to the share of the original 
value of the SIPP that the policies represented  is Mr Bs loss in respect of the other policies, 
excluding provision for TFC set out below.
Mr B withdrew TFC from his SIPP in February 2018.  WFM will need to establish  what  the 
notional value of Mr Bs other policies would have been as at that date if they had enjoyed  a 
return in line with the benchmark as set above. Using  that notional value WFM  should work 
out how much TFC Mr B would have been entitled  to (using  25% of the notional  value 
established) and compare this to the proportion of the amount actually received which is 
equivalent to the proportion of the amount transferred into the SIPP  which the other  policies 
represented  in practice this should work out as any amount not already  used  for the TFC 
comparison under  the GAR policies calculation. 
Ref: DRN405727721If Mr B has received less TFC than he would  have done if the other  policies had performed 
in line with the benchmark,  then he has suffered  a loss. Interest should be added to any loss 
established at a rate of 8% simple  per from the date TFC was actually and up until the date 
of this decision.   
How should  this compensation be paid? 
The total amount  of the missed net income payments, plus the interest  on these amounts 
should be paid directly to Mr B. The 8% interest should be paid net, and a tax certificate  
provided. 
The total loss established in respect  of TFC under both sections plus interest (as set out 
above) should  be paid to Mr B directly. 
The remainder (the capital cost of purchasing annuities  equivalent  to those that would have 
been available under the GAR policies and the likely  value of the other policies); less any 
current value of the SIPP should  ideally  be paid into a pension for Mr B, if this is possible.  
Any available tax reliefs  can be applied, so WFM need only pay an amount that is sufficient  
to increase the transfer value of the pension by the total amount of the remainder. 
If payment  cannot be made into a pension, or if doing so would give rise to any protection or 
allowance issues, the money should  instead be paid directly  to Mr B. This should be paid net 
of basic rate tax, as the full amount of TFC potentially available  to Mr B has already been 
taken into account.
Distress & inconvenience and SIPP fees
If Mr B is unable  to close his SIPP once compensation has been  paid (which is possible due 
to the ongoing uncertainty  with GOP), WFM should  pay an amount  into the SIPP  equivalent  
to five years worth  of the fees (based  on the most recent years  fees)  that will be payable  on 
the SIPP. I say this because Mr B would not be in the SIPP but for WFMs unsuitable advice. 
So it would not be fair for him to have to pay fees to keep it open.  And I am satisfied five 
years will allow sufficient time for things to be sorted  out with GOP,  and the SIPP to be 
closed. 
WFM should pay Mr B £500  for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr B has been  
caused significant distress by the loss of his pension benefits.  I think  that a payment of £500 
is fair to compensate  him for that distress.
Level of the award
I do not know what amount will result from these calculations. It is unlikely it will be more 
than the maximum amount of money  award  I can make.  But I have accounted for that 
possibility below. 
If WFM pays the full amount of compensation it can require Mr B to assign the right to 
pursue the SIPP  provider  to it. Alternatively, if WFM pays the maximum money  award of 
£150,000 it can require Mr B to sign an undertaking  to pay to it any compensation he may 
receive through pursuing a complaint about the SIPP  provider which is greater than the 
balance due (i.e. the amount of the full loss less the £150,000 paid).
Ref: DRN405727722Although GOP has no realisable value, it is possible some return  might be paid from that 
investment in the future.  So WFM can ask Mr B to undertake to pay to it any amount  he is 
paid in the future in relation to the GOP investment (if it does not take over the investment 
now), if it pays the full amount of compensation. Or any amount greater than the balance  
due, if it does not pay the full amount. Any such undertaking should allow for any cost or tax 
Mr B may incur  upon withdrawal of the relevant sums.
In either  case,  account should  be taken  of any other  amount  already paid. So if, for example, 
Mr B receives compensation from the SIPP  provider  and later is paid a return  from the GOP,  
account should be taken of the compensation paid by the SIPP provider  when considering 
whether the return  from GOP should be paid to WFM. 
Determination and recommendation:
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. 
If I consider  that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that 
Wealthmasters Financial  Management Ltd pay the balance.
Determination and award: 
I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should be calculated as set out 
above. My decision is that Wealthmasters  Financial Management Ltd should pay the amount 
produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 (including distress  and/or 
inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest  on the balance as set out above. 
Interest should  be added  to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple  for any time that it 
takes Wealthmasters Financial Management  Ltd to pay Mr B from the date it receives 
notification of his acceptance of the decision.
Recommendation: 
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation  exceeds  £150,000, I also 
recommend that Wealthmasters  Financial Management Ltd pays  Mr B the balance.  
I further recommend  interest to be added to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple for 
any time that it takes Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd to pay Mr B from the date it 
receives notification  of his acceptance  of the decision, as set out above.
If Mr B accepts  my determination,  the money  award  is binding  on Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd. My recommendation  is not binding on Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd.
Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my determination and go to court  to ask for the 
balance of the compensation owing to him after the money award has been paid. Mr B may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice  before deciding whether to accept this 
decision.
Ref: DRN405727723Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL FINDINGS
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN405727724In its response to our adjudicators view WFM said the complaint had been incorrectly  directed at it as 
it did not advise Mr B to invest  in GOP or any other unregulated investment. Mr B has asked us to 
consider a complaint  against  WFM. We have the jurisdiction  to look at a complaint against WFM. So 
whether or not WFM is responsible for what has been  complained  about is a matter for me to decide 
on the basis of what is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.  And, when doing this, I am not 
limited to simply answering the points  of complaint  I can take a wider  view.
Having carefully considered the available evidence, I think that the switches to the SIPP  and the 
investments subsequently made by Mr B in his SIPP  were unsuitable. And I think  it is fair and 
reasonable to hold WFM  responsible for this transaction as a whole. Ill explain  why.
Mr S, acting as WFMs adviser,  met with Mr B on a number of occasions and had discussions with 
him about his pensions. As part of this, WFM reviewed  Mr Bs circumstances. So it took steps to know 
its customer.
Mr S, acting as WFMs adviser,  recommended that Mr B switch  all of his personal pension plans to a 
family SIPP, citing the flexibility this would afford Mr B.
WFM was nominated to be the investment  manager of the SIPP after it was established, and the 
funds were received  from Mr Bs existing  pensions. Following this, Mr S met with Mr B to discuss the 
investments to be made. This meeting was arranged via Mr S WFM email  address.
I think  it is likely that Mr S spoke to Mr B about alternative investments  in general and more 
specifically about GOP and Physical Gold before that meeting. Or, at least, that Mr S had those 
investments in mind when recommending  the switches to the SIPP.  I think it is unlikely that Mr B 
agreed to make the switches, and that Mr S (acting  as WFMs adviser) recommended those switches,  
without any investment in mind.
I say this because:
There are a number of references to alternative investments in the pension reports  and the 
suitability letter. This suggests such investments were  in mind at the time of the advice to 
switch, and had been discussed.
Mr B was classified by Mr S as having  a speculative attitude to risk  suggesting that Mr S 
had discussed making speculative investments with him whilst  discussing the switches.  Ive 
not seen sufficient  evidence to show Mr B arrived at this attitude  to risk independently.
Mr S acted for WFM  and SCC.  So Mr S was one man with two hats, so to speak. He must 
therefore have known his later intentions when giving the advice to switch to the SIPP.  I 
cannot accept that, when he was giving  advice to switch  to the SIPP as WFMs adviser, it did 
not enter Mr S thinking  that he would later introduce Mr B to speculative  alternative 
investments.
Mr S, acting as WFMs adviser,  arranged  the meeting to discuss the investments Mr B made. 
This suggests no clear  separation between Mr S activities  as WFMs adviser and those for 
SCC.
WFM has accepted responsibly for the regulated  investment that Mr S recommended 
(Meteor).
WFM, and Mr S acting  as WFMs adviser, were  involved in the switches to the SIPP right up 
until the point the investments were made.
So the evidence  does not support there being the clear separation between the SIPP switches and 
the investments  which WFM argues exists. It is clear to me that the switches to the SIPP were  always 
Ref: DRN405727725intended to facilitate the unregulated investments  Mr B later made. That was the purpose of the 
switches. There was no demarcation.  So the switch and the investments were  coextensive  and 
intrinsically linked.
WFM had to know its client, act in his best interests and give suitable advice.  I do not think that it 
could fulfil these duties without considering  the overall transaction.  So Mr S, when acting for WFM, 
ought to have  considered the suitability of the switches to the SIPP and the intended investments  
when giving advice to Mr B.
This view is reflected by an alert issued  by the FCA in 2013 called  Advising on pension transfers with 
a view to investing pension monies into unregulated products through a SIPP.
This said, amongst other things, that:
The financial adviser does not give advice on the unregulated investment, and says it is 
only providing  advice on a SIPP  capable  of holding  the unregulated investment. Sometimes  
the regulated  financial adviser  also assists  the customer  to unlock monies held in other 
investments (e.g. other pension  arrangements) so that the customer  is able to invest in the 
unregulated investment.
Financial advisers using  this advice model  are under the mistaken impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest  in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.
It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a 
pension transfer in implementing  a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension 
transfer must take account of the overall investment  strategy the customer is contemplating.
I acknowledge that this alert came after WFMs recommendation to Mr B but I do not think this means  
that it is not relevant to this complaint. I say this because the alert was a reminder of existing 
obligations under the COBS rules  it did not introduce a new set of obligations.
As mentioned,  the available evidence shows WFM did take steps to know its client.  Mr S, acting as 
WFMs adviser, gathered  relevant details about Mr Bs personal and financial circumstances. So Mr S 
was in a position to be able to give suitable advice. But, taking into account  all I have said above, I do 
not think  that Mr S, acting as WFMs adviser, gave suitable advice.
In my view,  the advice to switch to a SIPP to facilitate  the investments later made  was not suitable. I 
say this because:
There is insufficient justification for the switches to the SIPP. The switches  came at a 
significant cost to Mr B and led to him incurring  higher ongoing charges. Mr B could have 
accessed funds that were  suitable for him through cheaper  products. Or he could have 
explored making fund switches in his existing schemes.
Mr B had GARs attached to two of the pension  policies that he moved to the SIPP. These 
were valuable benefits, which could have significantly increased Mr Bs income  in retirement. 
Mr B lost those GARs by switching to the SIPP.
I cannot agree  that Mr B was a speculative investor. Whilst I acknowledge  that this 
assessment was based on a risk questionnaire that Mr B signed,  I do not think it is 
reasonable to use this, in isolation,  to justify the recommendation. Due consideration needed 
to be given  to his circumstances, investment experience and capacity for loss.
Based on the information gathered  at the time of the advice Mr B appears to have had £2,500 
in investable assets outside of his pensions  and all of this was held in a cash ISA. The funds 
Ref: DRN405727726held within his personal pensions were  in cautious to medium risk funds. Mr B did not have 
any other retirement provision. In addition to this, Mr B was within 10 years of his normal 
retirement age.
WFM should therefore have concluded that Mr B could not reasonably be considered a 
speculative investor. Had it acted  properly, it should have told Mr B that his circumstances 
meant he should take a much lower level of risk when  investing  his personal pensions.
For the reasons  given,  Mr S, whilst  acting  as WFMs adviser,  ought to have considered the 
suitability of the intended  investments  when advising on the switches to the SIPP. 
The unregulated investments that Mr B invested  in were wholly unsuitable for him in light of his 
circumstances. He was exposed to a significant risk of capital loss and illiquidity when he should not 
have been. Mr B was not someone  who could afford to suffer significant  losses to his personal 
pensions  his main  source of income  in retirement. And, in this case, Mr B, who had limited 
investment experience, was investing a large proportion  of his pension in unregulated  investments. 
So, Mr S, whilst acting as WFMs  adviser, ought to have concluded that switches to a SIPP to 
facilitate those  investments were not suitable.
I have taken into account that Mr S worked as a self-employed adviser for WFM. The terms of his 
employment were set out in an agreement  between Mr S and WFM. WFM might argue that it is not 
responsible for the investments as it did not allow Mr S to deal with them whilst  acting for it.
I note that WFM has said that the agreement did not allow Mr S to give advice on/sell unregulated  
investments such as GOP and Physical Gold. And there is no evidence that Mr S was given approval 
from WFM to recommend them in this case.
But it did allow SIPP advice and there is no dispute about that being approved. I have found  that the 
advice to go into a SIPP was unsuitable, for the reasons set out above. And if not for the unsuitable 
SIPP advice SCC (if it did introduce Mr B to GOP  and Physical Gold) would  not have been able to 
make that introduction.
Suitable advice would have  been for Mr B to remain in his existing  schemes or switch the policies 
which did not have GARs attached  to them to a scheme that offered a wider range  of suitable 
investments, on the basis of an attitude to risk that fairly reflected Mr Bs circumstances  such  as a 
stakeholder plan. Neither of these options would  have allowed the relevant unregulated investments  
to be made.  So, I still think it is fair for WFM to be held responsible for the investment loss in full.
Ref: DRN4057277