K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about the settlement Admiral Insurance Company Limited offered him 
following a claim for lost rings and about  the premium  he was charged  on renewal of his 
contents insurance policy.
background
Mr S made a claim to Admiral on 26 November 2018 to say that his wife had lost her 
engagement and wedding  rings.
Items such as rings had to be specified  on the policy if they were worth  more than £1,000.  
Mr S said each ring was worth £1,000.
Admiral appointed a jewellery specialist to validate the claim. The specialist said the rings 
were a bridal  set and sold together. So it said they should have been specified on the policy 
as a set worth more  than £1,000. Admiral  said it would only pay £1,000 in respect of them.
Mr S told Admiral  he wasnt  sure when the rings had been lost. He thought it was on or 
around 19 November  but said his wife hadnt told him until 26 November. The policy had 
been renewed on 23 November at a premium of just over £440. Admiral told Mr S that as the 
loss had happened before  renewal, it would increase his premium by about £160.
Mr S complained to Admiral:
that it hadnt made  it clear that jewellery items which were part of a set should be 
specified on the policy for their combined  value;
about the increase in his premium following notification of the claim.
Admiral said although  each ring was valued  at under £1,000, if they were  bought  as a set 
and could only be replaced as a set, then Mr S should have specified them on the policy.  
It said the loss had occurred before the policy had renewed, so it was entitled under the 
policy wording to take it into account  when setting the premium.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld  it in part. He thought Mr S 
had acted reasonably in not treating the rings  as a set for insurance purposes because  one 
ring might have been lost and not the other. He also thought when Mr S had first taken out 
the policy, Admiral might  have led him to believe that he wouldnt need to declare the rings 
as a set because each ring was worth less than £1,000. But our investigator didnt think 
Admiral had acted unfairly in increasing  the premium.  He said it was standard  procedure  
within the insurance industry to record  claims for lost items from the date they were lost, not 
the date the loss was reported.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss policy  schedule  stated that the limit of cover  for unspecified items was £1,000. It went  
on to say (High Risk items over this amount must be specified in order to be covered). The 
only item specified was a laptop. 
Ref: DRN42445912My understanding of a bridal set is an engagement and a wedding  ring designed to 
complement each  other  and to be worn together. Its clear  Mr S saw them  as two separate  
rings because when  he made the claim,  he referred to the loss of wedding and engagement 
rings. 
I can understand why Mr S considered  them  to be two separate items  even though  theyd 
been bought as a set. Thats because according to Admirals records,  when Mr S took out 
the policy in 2015, its call handler  asked  him:
Do you wish to specify any valuables, such as jewellery, watches, or electrical items over 
£1,000? So thats over £1,000 apiece  then."
He answered No.
I think by referring to the value being over £1,000 apiece, the call handler was encouraging 
Mr S to focus on the value of the individual items  (in this case, the rings) rather than 
considering them as a set. Because  each ring was apparently worth less than £1,000, I can 
understand why Mr S didnt feel he needed to declare them to Admiral.  So I dont think  
Admiral has treated him fairly  in saying that he should have insured them based on their 
value as a set. I think Admiral should settle the claim on the basis  that two rings  were lost 
rather than a set.
With regard to the premium increase Id be unlikely  to think  it fair if Admiral  had recalculated 
the premium mid-term because of a loss which happened after the renewal date.  But in this 
case it seems  likely that the loss happened before renewal even though Mr S might  not have 
been aware of it then.  Mr Ss policy permits Admiral to amend the premium  in these 
circumstances. Admiral  says its claims experience shows policyholders  with incidents are 
more likely to go on to make a claim in the future. Having looked at commercially sensitive 
information provided by Admiral, Im persuaded it hasnt treated Mr S differently from any 
other policyholders  in this respect. So I think its a factor which  Admiral  was entitled to take 
into account when  setting the premium  on renewal and it didnt treat Mr S unfairly in 
increasing the premium.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Admiral Insurance  Company Limited to settle  
Mr Ss claim on the basis that hed lost two separate rings.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4244591