K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that NewDay Ltd did not default his account when he entered  a debt 
management plan.
background
Mr T had a credit card with NewDay. He says that in 2013 he fell into financial difficulties, 
and was unable  to keep up with his minimum monthly payments. So he entered  into a debt 
management plan (DMP),  in which NewDay  agreed to stop applying interest and fees to his 
account. He paid back the balance  in full in 2017.
In 2019 Mr T applied, or was about  to apply, for a mortgage, and he was concerned that the 
record of the DMP on his credit file would prejudice  his application. He complained to 
NewDay, arguing that if it had defaulted his account in 2013, then the default marker would 
have dropped off his credit file after six years, that is, in 2019. Instead,  he will have the DMP 
on his credit file until 2023.  He asked NewDay to substitute a default on his credit  file, 
backdated to 2013, so that it would expire in 2019.  But NewDay  did not agree, and said that 
the DMP had been  the best option  for him at the time.
Mr T brought  this complaint to our service. He argued that he had been unfairly 
disadvantaged for paying  off his debt in full, compared with people  who do not pay, because 
the DMP would be on his credit file for four years longer than a default would have been. He 
referred to relevant regulations, and said that another bank had upheld  a similar complaint 
and put a backdated default on his credit  file. So since  both banks  were  subject to the same 
regulations, NewDay  should do the same thing.
NewDay said that according to its records, the DMP actually  began in 2016,  not 2013.  It no 
longer had a record of what  had happened between 2013 and 2016.  It said the credit file 
was an accurate report of what  had happened,  so it wouldnt amend it.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He thought that as NewDay  had agreed  to a 
DMP, it hadnt needed to take the more  drastic step of defaulting  Mr Ts account. Mr T 
probably hadnt wanted a default at the time, and the DMP had been a way of avoiding it. 
Just because Mr T would  have been  in a better position today, didnt mean  NewDay should 
have acted differently  at the time.
Mr T did not accept that decision. He said it was unfair that he should end up in a worse  
position than someone who failed to repay  anything would be in today. Someone whose 
account was defaulted in 2013 would no longer have a black mark against  them  on their 
credit file, whereas  the DMP would be on his credit  file until 2023. He said NewDay had 
failed to act fairly and reasonably, as it was required to do. He asked  for an ombudsman  to 
review his case. He later said that he had been in arrears since  2012  (and provided  
evidence of this), so he should have been  defaulted in 2012.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Just because a lender  can default an account after it has been in arrears  for a few months,  
does not necessarily mean that it should. It certainly doesnt mean that it must. Defaulting an 
Ref: DRN44124632account is just one of the steps  available to a lender when its customer falls into arrears. A 
default is for when the relationship between lender and borrower has broken down, which is 
not the case when a DMP is in place, because a DMP  means that new terms of payment 
have been agreed between the parties.
A default looks worse  on a credit file than a DMP does and so, during the six years that a 
default marker remains on a credit  file, it would have been  harder to obtain credit than would 
have been the case with only a DMP. So its unlikely that Mr T would have been satisfied 
with a default in 2012, 2013 or 2016.  And lenders have a duty to treat their customers  
sympathetically and positively when they are in financial difficulty, so I think it was 
reasonable of NewDay  to look for an alternative  to a default.  A DMP was a less draconian, 
and more proportionate, response  than a default would have been. People who do get a 
default often complain that their lender should  have done something else, such  as a DMP.
Although Mr T says that other  lenders did default  his accounts, it does not follow  that 
NewDay had to too. It may just not have  been possible for the other lenders to agree DMPs, 
perhaps because  their assessments of Mr Ts income and expenditure suggested he could 
not afford  to make payments they could accept.  Although they are all subject to the same  
rules, each lender  can still have  different  policies  and procedures for dealing  with customers  
in arrears. Some may work harder than others to avoid defaulting an account. They  dont all 
have to do the same thing  in the same  situation,  and they may have been dealing  with 
different situations  anyway (such as different outstanding balances).
Similarly, although another lender  did concede  that it should have defaulted Mr Ts account  
in the first place, and resolved his complaint by doing that and backdating the default, it does 
not follow that NewDay should as well. I dont  know why the other lender upheld Mr Ts 
complaint, but it may be because it didnt follow its own procedures properly, or because  the 
DMP it had agreed with him was unaffordable or otherwise unsuitable.  That does not mean  
that NewDay also did something wrong, and I wont infer that it did based on the actions of 
other lenders.
I take Mr Ts point about him being in a worse position today. But in deciding what  to do, 
NewDay had to take into account  the situation  Mr T was in then, not the situation in which he 
was likely to find himself  six or seven years  later. He was in a better position for the first six 
years than he would have been with a default marker. And of course, a default marker  is not 
the only consequence of paying nothing.  Proceedings in court might have followed. A county 
court judgement, if one had been obtained in 2014,  would  have stayed on his credit file until 
2020, and that would have looked even worse  than a default.  So it is by no means certain  
that Mr T would really have been  in a better position  today if he had paid nothing.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4412463