K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A have  complained about how their home insurer,  Legal & General Insurance 
Limited (L&G) handled their claim made after their home was damaged  as a result of a fire at 
their neighbours home.
background
On 23 October 2017 Mr and Mrs A notified  L&G of a fire at the house next door to (and 
adjoining) their home. Mr and Mrs As home was heavily smoke damaged, and some repair 
was also needed  to their roof (as well as to next doors roof without which  their home  wasnt 
watertight). The family had to move  into alternative accommodation.
A pack of hired items was supplied to allow the family to move into rental  accommodation. 
But Mr and Mrs A felt there were insufficient  items for their needs and some  were of poor 
quality. They bought what they felt they needed to live over the coming  months and asked 
L&G to reimburse  their outlay. L&G, over a period of time, did reimburse some items, but not 
others. L&G, Mr and Mrs A say, also took time to make other payments to them, sometimes 
paying them  late, such as rent and council tax.
L&G carried  out various assessments straight  away at Mr and Mrs As home, but repairs  
couldnt start until the neighbours  roof was fixed (this was done by 12 January 2018). L&G 
tested damaged ceilings for asbestos but Mr and Mrs A said the kitchen and hall ceilings had 
been missed. They  paid for the asbestos removal company to remove  these ceilings,  paying  
it £960. They asked  L&G to reimburse  this sum but it refused. It said the ceilings hadnt 
needed to be removed.
In July 2018, with repairs  to Mr and Mrs As roof having been  put on hold whilst a dispute  
over replacing timbers was resolved, L&G provided a written response to a complaint it had 
received from Mr and Mrs A regarding poor service they felt theyd received to that point. 
L&G accepted it hadnt communicated with Mr and Mrs A very well. It offered to reimburse 
phone call costs upon sight  of proof  of outlay and pay £250  compensation. It said it was 
reviewing claim  costs  Mr and Mrs A had submitted to it. Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy 
and complained to us.
Whilst we prepared to review the complaint  the claim progressed. As time went  on
Mr and Mrs A felt they couldnt trust L&G to complete the reinstatement work  for their home.  
They provided it with quotes totalling  £50,000  £60,000. L&G said it would  cost it £15,000 to 
do the work  and paid this into Mr and Mrs As bank account. They  then decided  to let L&G do 
the work  and sent the money back to it.
In February 2019,  excluding  the building repair cost, Mr and Mrs A told L&G they were 
looking for a payment from it of circa £40,000 to settle matters. They set out costs for a 
number of items making up that total. The items  were:
Mileage
Phone calls
Professional time
Unpaid items
Asbestos removal
Contents
External  work
Ref: DRN47219372Future costs
Grief
Also in February 2019 L&G confirmed the building reinstatement work had been due to 
commence in January  2019. It sent us its updated  activity file.
Our investigator then considered the complaint taking  into account what had happened until 
February 2019. She felt L&G had caused  the claim to be delayed  and delayed making some 
payments to Mr and Mrs A as well. She felt there were some  reasonable claim costs 
outstanding that L&G should  pay and said it should pay £1,000 compensation. But she didnt 
think it should make payments for the majority of costs subject of the £40,000 requested.
Mr and Mrs A felt our investigators suggested awards fell short of what  they were  due. L&G 
said it wouldnt pay for an outside step to be repaired  as suggested by our investigator and 
didnt feel £1,000 compensation was fair. The complaint was passed to me to consider.
I asked both parties for more details. Having received and considered  that I decided  to issue 
a provisional decision  as I felt £1,500 compensation should be paid. Also,  having received  
more information,  some of my reasoning  and findings differed from the position set out 
previously by our investigator. Both parties  have now responded. 
L&G accepted my findings.  Mr and Mrs A were generally pleased  by them  but they made 
some points in response and explained  which areas they didnt agree with, for example they 
felt my compensation  award should be higher. Ive considered the responses; my provisional 
findings, Mr and Mrs As comments and my replies  are set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
background
In response to my provisional decision Mr and Mrs A clarified some points, such as that the 
fire occurred  on 21 October and they notified  L&G on 23 October. My background is only a 
summary of events, so doesnt include everything. Where Ive felt it appropriate  to do so, 
given the points Mr and Mrs A have  raised,  Ive amended  my background. But Im satisfied  
there was nothing materially different that affects  or impacts the findings I made.
I said provisionally:
building repair settlement
L&G initially  started  repairing Mr and Mrs As home.  And whilst at one time it looked like the 
remainder of this work might be settled in cash,  the claim  did progress with L&G carrying out 
the reinstatement work. So there  is no overall  settlement for me to consider  in this respect. 
The standard of work L&G did and the way this was handled, up until February 2019, will be 
considered by me later on in this decision.
Ref: DRN47219373asbestos removal
Within a few days  of the incident L&Gs experts noted  that there might well be asbestos 
containing materials damaged by the fire (smoke, heat and/or  water damage). It appointed 
asbestos specialists  and they sought clarification from L&G as to what  it wanted them  to do. 
It was 2 February 2018 before this was confirmed. The work wasnt then done until
May 2018.
The authorisation given in February  didnt include testing or removal of the kitchen and upper 
hall ceilings.  Sometime  after the other work  was completed the asbestos company, without 
seeking further authorisation from L&G tested the kitchen and upper hall ceilings.  These 
were found  to contain asbestos. In June  2018 the asbestos company asked for authorisation 
to remove them. L&G didnt think this was necessary as they hadnt  been damaged  by the 
incident. But its notes  show it clearly felt it now had some responsibility for the ceilings 
because of the actions the asbestos  company had taken. It said it would agree to have the 
ceilings encapsulated, rather than removed.  And if Mr and Mrs A wanted them removed  it 
would pay them the cash equivalent of what it would cost it to encapsulate  them.
In July 2018 Mr and Mrs A paid the asbestos company £960  to remove the ceilings. Whilst 
L&G asked the asbestos company for its cost to encapsulate them  this doesnt  seem to have 
ever been  received  at least I havent found  it within L&Gs claim file. Ive also asked L&G to 
provide details of this cost. It hasnt done so. Without actual evidence  of the cost, Im 
prepared to estimate that this is likely £500. Im going to require L&G to pay this to
Mr and Mrs A. To that sum it should  add interest* from the date the asbestos removal invoice  
was paid by them until settlement is made.
I know Mr and Mrs A would like the whole removal bill paid. However, having carefully 
considered all of the paperwork available from the early stages of the claim,  Im not 
persuaded these  ceilings  were damaged such as to require removal.  Damage necessitating 
removal was noted to other ceilings, but all the evidence indicates these two were only 
smoke damaged. Mr and Mrs A have no picture  of the kitchen ceiling and Ive found  none on 
L&Gs file. They provided a photo  of the upper hallway. I can see a tiny patch of the finishing 
texture missing but it isnt clear to me when this photo was taken. Whilst there  is a patch 
missing, as I say, the remaining finish doesnt  seem disturbed or flaking in any way as it 
might be if the ceiling as a whole was damaged. So Im not satisfied that L&G was wrong  or 
being unreasonable when  it didnt have these ceilings tested initially or when it said they 
didnt need removing.
Mr and Mrs A said the ceilings were in a scope issued by L&G and it did authorise an 
asbestos survey. They believe  the asbestos  company  made an error and just didnt realise 
these ceilings needed checking.
L&Gs initial  scope of works referred to painting the kitchen,  hall and landing ceilings. It 
accepted they were  smoke damaged. Whilst I understand Mr and Mrs As view that the 
asbestos company  made an error, Ive not seen  anything within the contemporaneous file data 
that makes me think that is most likely  the case.  In saying  that, I bear in mind  that Mr and Mrs A 
havent provided any evidence to show the kitchen and upper hall ceilings were  damaged  in 
such a way, due to the fire, that they might  pose a threat to health if they contained asbestos  or 
that they needed to be removed. And an insurer  wouldnt  have all the ceilings  at a property 
tested even if they didnt pose a risk or it wasnt planning to replace them. 
Ref: DRN47219374I continued provisionally to consider the external  damage Mr and Mrs A had asked L&G to 
pay for:
external work
Mr and Mrs A asked  L&G to pay £1,580  to reinstate their garden, including  repairing a rotten 
step. Im not going to make  L&G pay this sum.  The work in the garden is all maintenance 
related. Whilst I appreciate it is tricky to keep  on top of a garden when you arent living at a 
property it was still Mr and Mrs As responsibility to do that. The step was damaged during 
L&Gs work by its contractor but this didnt happen as a result of the contractors negligence. 
It happened because  the step was rotten and it likely would have failed regardless of who 
was using it.
In addition, Mr and Mrs A mention smoke damaged upvc  fixtures.  I asked L&G whether it 
intended to replace these as they didnt feature in its scope.  L&G said these werent 
damaged or affected by smoke, so it had no intention to repair or replace them.
Im going  to make L&G appoint an independent surveyor  to assess  the upvc. Thats  because  
in its early records L&Gs experts note some  upvc fixtures  are soot stained and that given 
this residue hadnt been cleaned in the immediate aftermath of the fire, its felt the upvc likely 
wont clean. Whilst another of L&Gs  experts  now say there is no soot/smoke damage, I cant  
reasonably ignore what was said immediately after the loss. It may be that as time has 
passed since and weather  has acted  upon  the upvc, the damage has been  resolved. But
I cant reasonably rely on the most recent  comments alone to fairly conclude that is most 
likely the case.  So L&G will have to provide a list of three independent surveyors  for
Mr and Mrs A to pick one from to be appointed to assess the upvc  fixtures, including but not 
limited to fascias, windows, doors and the conservatory, internally and externally. If the 
surveyor thinks any of these items are suffering from damage  related to the fire, L&G will 
have to repair or replace it.
Mr and Mrs A said part of the £1,508 was for repairing a fence damaged during the fire. They  
wanted to know  if this had been  considered.
In making their complaint to us, Mr and Mrs A didnt say the fence  was damaged  during the 
claim. They said the estimate  (which included a fence repair) was for work necessary as a 
result of deterioration of the garden and, regarding the steps, as a result  of damage L&Gs 
contractor had done. L&G does seem to be aware  that Mr and Mrs A believed  the fence  was 
damaged during the incident  but in June  2018 it told them that it didnt accept that was the 
case. Ive not seen  other evidence regarding this and any objection Mr and Mrs A had to 
L&Gs findings wasnt included  in L&Gs final response issued in July 2018. If Mr and Mrs A 
have any evidence regarding the fence damage they can submit  it to L&G for it to consider. 
Mr and Mrs A also said there was more than one step; there were several steps. The 
contractor had damaged these  and then said they were rotten  but theyd been fine before.
I understand that Mr and Mrs A feel that the contractor is responsible  for the damage.  
I accept there were several  steps  within one set that were damaged, and I apologise  for my 
reference to one step in my provisional  findings. However, Ive not seen any evidence  of the 
condition of the steps prior to the fire, and Im mindful that rot damage occurs  over time. 
I remain satisfied it would  be unfair to make  L&G pay for this repair.
Ref: DRN47219375My provisional findings continued:
unpaid items
When the family moved into a rental property, as all their belongings were  in storage or being  
restored, L&G hired a pack of everyday items for their use eg pots and pans, bedding,  cutlery  
etc. Mr and Mrs A felt some of the items supplied were of poor quality and that other 
essential items were  missing. They spoke to their claim  handler on 23 May 2018. The 
handler said theyd  look to get some  of Mr and Mrs As own items from storage.
Mr and Mrs A said agreement was then reached  that, unless the handler told them  otherwise 
(that items had been  secured from storage) theyd  purchase anything necessary over the 
coming weekend.  Items were purchased over the weekend of 28  31 May 2018 and in early  
June Mr and Mrs A sent details of the purchases to L&G, asking it to pay a total of £2,516.
L&G wasnt  prepared to settle for all these items, but some were resolved. Mr and Mrs A 
have clarified that the outstanding items,  totalling  £1,913.60, are:
Kitchenware (teapot, cafetire, etc) £157.33
Kitchen organising (tea/coffee/sugar jugs, dish towels,  scales etc) £80.00
Crockery (plates, bowls, mixing/fruit bowls, frying  pans, whisks etc.) £77.30
Bed Side table  lamps (6off) £112.00
Foldable chairs (4off)  £48.00
Kids toy storage  [brand name]  plus 8 boxes £136.00
Bathroom scales and bathroom bins £53.39
Shoe rack and coat hanger £78.90
Clocks and lighting £210.77
Pillows (1 memory foam,  7 feather) £374.91
Duvets - ones provided are unsuitable (2x double,  2x single) £360.00
Black out Curtains (2 x living room, 1 x spare  room, 1 x office, 1 x kitchen, 
1 x kids room) £225.00.
Apart from three items,  Im not going  to make  L&G reimburse any of these costs. Im not 
persuaded any of these  items were urgent  or necessaries that couldnt  be lived without for a 
time  and when  I say lived without  I bear in mind  that some pillows,  tea towels, cooking 
equipment etc were  provided by L&G, so Mr and Mrs A and their children werent left with 
nothing. And some  inconvenience when suffering through the aftermath of a claim is to be 
expected. Im also not saying that it was unreasonable for Mr and Mrs A to want additional  
cooking equipment,  for example, but I do think they could  have managed for a couple of 
weeks allowing time for items to be retrieved from storage.
There are three items on this list though that I think L&G should pay for, assuming it hasnt 
done so already. I say that because  two of the items  are featured  on the list of contents that 
Mr and Mrs A had owned but had been  damaged beyond repair by the fire. They are the 
tea/coffee/sugar set and toy storage boxes. As they were damaged beyond repair L&G was 
always liable for their replacement cost.  If it has covered that cost already then it wont  need 
to pay it again.  But if it hasnt itll now have to pay Mr and Mrs A what  they paid for these 
items. If there are receipts, plus interest* from the date they bought  them until settlement is 
made. The toy storage  was £136.  I havent  seen an actual cost for the jar set. I think  £20 is a 
reasonable sum for that, so, in the absence of the actual cost, Ill require L&G to pay it.
Ref: DRN47219376The third item is the curtains for the childs room. I think these were a necessity. Black  out 
curtains for non-sleeping rooms werent vitally  important and could reasonably have  been  
foregone  but a child needs to sleep and given the time of year darkness wouldnt have 
fallen until late. Mr and Mrs As receipts show the purchase of 5 pairs  of curtains at £40 a 
pair, that is £200. They claim £225 for six pairs  of curtains, the last on the list being those for 
the childs room.  I think  its reasonable to say L&G should pay them £25.00  being  the likely  
cost of the curtains purchased for the childs room. If they have a receipt  that shows more,  Ill 
consider it. If they provide a receipt Ill likely make L&G pay interest on the sum from the date 
of purchase until settlement is made.
Mr and Mrs A said the pack from L&G was really quite limited  and didnt include things like 
tea towels. Whilst they note I say they could have  waited  before purchasing  things they say 
they did chase  L&G in the weeks afterwards  and finally in July they were told all their items  
could be returned  from storage,  not just some, and only once everything was restored. That 
didnt happen  for nearly a year. They signed  the lease on agreement  with L&G that their 
reasonable costs  would be reimbursed.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs A in this respect,  but, having  considered  their response, 
my findings  havent  changed. L&G didnt handle this well and its communication  at times was 
poor. Im not suggesting that Mr and Mrs A should  have gone for a year with limited contents 
items but I believe that, in this case, Mr and Mrs A didnt give L&G a sufficient chance to take 
the right action before incurring further  costs. And L&G did reimburse what  it felt in the 
circumstances were  reasonable purchases. I remain of the view that L&G arent  fairly  liable 
for the outstanding costs (beyond  the three items  I said it should pay for).
In my provisional findings I then looked at the contents settlement., I said:
contents
The settlement  for the contents was largely agreed but Mr and Mrs A queried some  
deductions L&G had made. They also noted that whilst wall art and lampshades hadnt been 
included in the damaged  beyond repair settlement list, they had been skipped They felt other 
things might have been  missed too so felt L&G should pay a further 5% to allow for this. 
They also noted  their trampoline  had been damaged by L&Gs  contractors.
L&G deducted £200. Mr and Mrs A noted their policy excess for contents claims, as shown 
on their schedule, is £100. They think only £100  should have been deducted. L&G cant  
explain why it sought to deduct  £200.  It seems unlikely to me this was to reflect the buildings  
claims excess as well. L&G, as is quite normal, instructed  its contractor to collect the excess  
in this case, and the buildings claim excess is £200.  I think L&G needs  to refund £100 to
Mr and Mrs A, plus interest from the date the rest of the contents claim was paid.
Mr and Mrs A also queried deductions L&G had made of £500  and £770.  L&G said these 
payments were made  to allow Mr and Mrs A to purchase emergency items in the immediate 
aftermath of the fire and, at some  time prior to 14 December 2017, to allow further clothing 
items to be bought.  Whilst Mr and Mrs A say they were aware of the £500  being paid, they 
thought this wouldnt affect their overall settlement, but they dont believe £770  was paid to 
them for clothes.
Ref: DRN47219377In principle I think it was fair for L&G to deduct  these sums  from the overall settlement. It 
agreed to pay for everything Mr and Mr A had lost, but if it had already made  these earlier 
payments to allow them to buy replacement items during the course of the claim, it wouldnt 
be reasonable to pay for these items again in its main  settlement. So L&G, like most insurers  
deducts early payments  from later, main claim settlements. As Mr and Mrs A accept they 
were paid £500 to make  emergency purchases, I think  it was reasonable for L&G to deduct 
this sum from its overall claim settlement.  Im not going to make  it refund this sum
But I currently think L&G should  refund the £770  to Mr and Mrs A. They have no recollection 
of this sum being  paid for clothes, and I cant see that, after the emergency payment was 
made, they asked for more money  for clothes  or that L&G clearly told them it was making a 
payment to them of £770 for clothes.  If L&G can show me this payment was made and it was 
clear about  what it was being paid for, then I wont make  it pay this sum now. If it doesnt 
satisfy me in that respect  Ill likely find it has to reimburse this sum, plus interest* from the 
date the main settlement was paid until this payment  is made.
Im not going  to require L&G to pay 5% on top of the contents settlement on the off-chance 
items have  been  missed.  L&G is liable to pay for losses,  and it has to be at least most likely 
that such a loss has occurred, not just that it might have done.  But Mr and Mrs A have  
confirmed, and L&G has agreed that some  wall art and lampshades didnt form part of the
claim settlement but evidently were skipped  because they were deemed beyond  repair. It 
should, therefore, make settlement to Mr and Mrs A for these items  they were clearly  lost 
and havent yet been accounted for.
Ive seen photos of the trampoline and its clear L&Gs  contractors stored roofing materials  
on and against  it. L&G accepts it damaged the netting and repaired this. Mr and Mrs A in 
around June 2019  told us the padding was damaged as well and that L&G was looking into 
this. When I asked L&G for an update it said the trampoline had been repaired in April 2019. 
Unless Mr and Mrs A can advise  otherwise  it seems  the damaged padding must still be 
outstanding. If Mr and Mrs A have an estimate  for repair or replacement  of the padding, Ill 
likely make L&G pay this. If the repair or replacement has been  done already by
Mr and Mrs A, and they can show me a receipt for this, L&G will have to add interest to any 
invoice for costs, from the date the invoice  was paid until settlement  is made.
Mr and Mrs A confirmed  the wall art, lampshades and trampoline had been settled for. Ive 
noted this update. Whilst I made  provisional awards for these items, I havent included  them  
in my final decision awards set out below. 
My provisional findings continued:
future costs
This was really a projection of expected costs related to living elsewhere and moving home.  
As far as Im aware these  expected  costs  later fell away  because  they either werent 
incurred, or they became actual costs  which L&G has settled for. If there  are any from this list 
that were actually incurred but havent been paid by L&G, Mr and Mrs A should  let me know.
Mr and Mrs A said that following their report dated  30 January 2019,  which  set out their 
projected future costs  expected to be incurred  before and as a result  of moving home,  they 
moved home  in July 2019. So they now have a full list of outstanding actual costs.  Whilst 
I understand Mr and Mrs A feel costs  are outstanding, at this stage they would need to send 
details and evidence  of these now incurred costs  to L&G for it to initially consider.
Ref: DRN47219378My provisional findings turned to phone  call and mileage costs:
phone calls
L&G accepted its communication  had been poor and said it would reimburse  costs  for calls 
upon receipt of bills. Mr and Mrs A provided details showing they made  around  twenty-six 
hours of calls and that their mobile network  charges fifty-five pence per minute. They 
therefore want L&G to pay them £861.30.
Not all calls made  were  unnecessary or made as a result of L&Gs  negligent or poor claims 
handling. Some were  necessary,  and would always have been necessary to progress the 
claim. Further, showing what  a mobile  provider charges  doesnt  evidence what an individual 
has incurred in costs.  Providers charge a number  of different rates  under different tariffs, and 
many people utilise phone contracts  that have free call time built into the monthly  charge. Im 
not satisfied that Mr and Mrs A were caused  £861  of call costs as result of L&Gs unfair 
and/or unreasonable actions.
I can see that Mr and Mrs A did have to call L&G a lot and that the claim went  on for longer 
than it should  have done, meaning that some of their calls were  only necessary as result of 
L&Gs delays. On balance  I think its fair to say L&G should pay them £100 to cover any call 
charges they had as a result of its poor clam handling and delays.
mileage
Mr and Mrs A want L&G to pay them  £802 for around £1,700 miles travelled whilst they were 
staying in the alternative accommodation. The miles travelled were their everyday journeys, 
plus a few to the house for meetings. Im not going  to make L&G pay any of this sum. Having 
seen the list of journeys compiled by Mr and Mr A Im satisfied they were ones that were 
always necessary (but started from the alternative accommodation address rather than
Mr and Mrs As home) and/or were necessary  following  the claim.
Mr and Mrs A didnt  comment  on anything Id said about phone call costs  but they objected  to 
my findings  on mileage.  They  said there were trips that were only necessary as a result  of 
L&Gs protracted and poor handling of the claim, for example five trips were  incurred in 
respect of meeting  contractors regarding asbestos.  Mr and Mrs A also said that L&G had 
agreed during  a phone  call on 26 July 2018 that some mileage had been unnecessary.
L&G delayed the handling of the asbestos element of the claim. But I havent seen that more 
meetings were required as a result of those delays.  There was further  activity  regarding 
asbestos after May 2018 (when the asbestos containing material  L&G accepted  it was liable 
for had been removed). But that was regarding the kitchen and upper hall ceiling which Ive 
commented on above. As Im satisfied that L&G didnt make an error by not ensuring these 
ceilings were tested  when the others were, if further  meetings and visits to the property  were  
required as a result of it later testing  these ceilings and removing them, that, at worst, was 
just activity that flowed  naturally as a part of the claim.
L&Gs notes  do record a conversation on 26 July regarding its handling of the claim. The 
notes recorded  by the complaint handler  state:
I have advised that [Mrs A] can submit additional mileage and phone call costs  for us to 
consider as I agree some were unnecessary.
Ref: DRN47219379But L&Gs letter also issued on 26 July 2018  only offered to make payment for reasonable 
additional phone call costs. So L&G hadnt answered the mileage issue which left it up to me 
to consider. I did so provisionally, and Ive reviewed  my findings  now in light of Mr and Mrs As 
response. Having  done so Im not minded to change what I said provisionally.  
I would add though that the costs  I have considered, as set out by Mr and Mrs A, were 
incurred up to but not beyond 30 January  2019.  If they want  L&G to consider costs incurred 
beyond that date they should contact it.
I continued provisionally to consider late payments made by L&G:
late payments
Mr and Mrs A explained that L&G often took too long to make payments to them.  These were 
largely payments  related to the alternative accommodation Mr and Mrs A were  staying in. Ill 
arrange for our investigator to send a spreadsheet with this decision.  The spreadsheet shows 
when certain amounts  were requested by Mr and Mrs A, when the loss adjuster told L&G the 
payment needed  making, and when L&G made the payment.  A consideration of the dates on 
the spreadsheet shows that in respect of all but one payment, either the loss adjuster 
delayed asking L&G to make the payment, and/or L&G didnt act quickly  following the loss 
adjusters request and delayed making the payment. That was poor claim handling  by L&G.  
Mr and Mrs A shouldnt  have been left out of pocket,  and regardless of the date they paid the 
sums they were asking  for, Ive no doubt  the delays caused them worry.
Mr and Mrs A will need  to check their records to see if they have proof  of payment by them of 
the amounts they requested from L&G. With exception of the one payment, which Ive 
highlighted on the spreadsheet for the parties, if they paid an amount before L&G made  
payment to them of that sum,  L&G will have to make  a further  payment to them.  This will 
equate to interest* on the paid amount from the date Mr and Mrs A requested that payment 
until L&G made that payment to them (request and payment  dates as detailed on the 
spreadsheet).
Mr and Mrs A said they had previously provided  details about  when payments were 
requested and when L&G paid them. I appreciate that, and that detail was used  and referred 
to by me in my provisional findings.  But for L&G to make  a payment of interest, Mr and Mrs A 
will have to show it when they made  each payment requested,  or any payment that was part 
of a larger requested  amount, in order to evidence they were  then out of pocket by this sum 
before L&G reimbursed them. The one payment I said provisionally that in my view wasnt 
delayed was for an amount of £3,000 requested and paid on 1 and 3 November respectively.
My provisional findings continued:
professional time
Mr and Mrs A say they were more  involved in the claim  than they should have been. They 
realised at the outset  they were going to have to keep good records and they utilised their 
professional skills  to manage the claim; not just to make the claim and let L&G do its job 
which is what should have  happened. Mr and Mrs A determined theyd spent 267 hours 
dealing with the claim and only 30% of that time should have been necessary (if L&G had 
done its job properly). They said L&G should  pay them  at their work overtime  rates  for the 
other 70% of the time theyd spent managing the claim; a total of £5,557.72.
Ref: DRN472193710I appreciated that Mr and Mrs A feel they spent more  time dealing with this claim than they 
should have done. But that being the case they will receive compensation based  on our 
services usual approach  to distress and inconvenience suffered. We dont require insurers to 
pay for time spent based on an hourly rate.
Mrs A said this wasnt really about additional  time spent, rather  just that shed had to utilise 
her own professional expertise to do things she felt L&G should have done, such as 
calculating how much was due from it to reimburse  their outlay for council tax.
I understand Mr and Mrs As view on this. The detail I set out provisionally was from their 
report dated 30 January  2019 in which they set out everything they felt L&G should  pay. Ive 
considered their comments in reply  to my provisional decision but dont find they add 
anything that gives me cause to change my view on this.
I continued provisionally to look at the upset L&G had caused:
grief (distress and inconvenience)
Mr and Mrs A feel that the repairs should only have taken six months. So they believe they 
were out of their home for 13 months longer than necessary and want compensating at £100 
per family member  per month of those 13 months.  Whilst  I understand why Mr and Mrs A 
might view things this way  that isnt how we assess or award compensation. Im also 
mindful that Im only looking at matters until February 2019, by which time the roof repairs 
had only just been done. So I have  no evidence and am not considering how the other 
repairs progressed after this stage.  Therefore,  I cant  reasonably make a conclusion about 
the total length of time Mr and Mrs A should have bene out of their home for. But from what 
Ive seen, I am satisfied  that L&G caused delays  between October 2017 and February 2019.
The situation  with the neighbours home was always going to impact Mr and Mrs As claim. 
And it wouldnt be unusual in this type of situation for one claim to be held up for a long time 
because of damage the home owner and/or the insurer  has no control  over fixing.  But here 
the damage next door was fixed by mid-January 2018. It was Mr and Mrs As roof repair,
undertaken by L&G,  that didnt get completed  until late 2018.  From what  Ive seen the roof 
repair wasnt particularly complicated. I know debates arose as Mr and Mrs A felt the roof 
needed more  work  than L&G felt was necessary. But Im not persuaded that L&G took 
reasonable steps to progress matters.
And even  prior to the roof work commencing L&G had caused delays in its handling  of the 
asbestos. There was no good reason for this to have taken until May 2018  for this to be 
removed/made safe. There was an item in the loft that contained asbestos and other work up 
there on the roof couldnt be done  until that was resolved.
Added to the repair delays, as mentioned above, L&G made  payments  late to Mr and Mrs A. 
L&Gs communication was poor and Mr and Mrs A did have to chase it and do more  work 
than they should have  needed to in order to progress the claim.
But I do have to bear in mind that suffering a fire is traumatic  in itself and a certain  amount of 
distress and inconvenience follows as a natural part of any incident  like this, along with the 
claim and putting the home right. There will always need to be a certain amount of involvement 
by the homeowner and its always going to be upsetting living  away  from home.  Whilst the 
insurer should make  the alternative living situation like the damaged  home, it cant reasonably  
replicate that exactly. Some level of difference can only reasonably be expected.
Ref: DRN472193711Having considered what happened  and the failures  Im satisfied L&G made, having also 
taken into account  awards  weve made in similar cases, I think L&G should pay total 
compensation to Mr and Mrs A of £1,500. If L&G paid the £250 offered in 2018  and they 
have had the benefit of it, then L&G will now only have to pay a further £1,250.
Mr and Mrs A said it was January 2019  when the roof work was completed.  And the roof 
repairs and building  reinstatement work only took 10 weeks.  Mr and Mrs A said £1,500  
seemed like a small amount of compensation given what  theyd been  through  and how their 
health had been affected. They  said whilst  they accept the fire caused  some upset, their 
dealings with L&G were  more traumatic.
Im not persuaded that roof repairs completing  in January 2019 rather  than late 2018 makes  
any difference to my findings. As I said provisionally,  L&G didnt handle the claim well, 
including the roof repairs. I still cant  consider  anything that happened in respect  of the 
building reinstatement work  as my findings  only take into account  activity up to 
February 2019. It may be that they didnt take that long to complete, but Im satisfied, given 
what I saw whilst making my provisional decision, that L&G caused  delays and Mr and Mrs A 
were out of their home far longer than they should  have  been as a result.  
I havent seen  any evidence that links poor health with L&Gs failures. I appreciate  that it was 
difficult for Mr and Mrs A dealing with L&G, and Ive awarded compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  I accept L&G caused. I understand that Mr and Mrs A feel that sum is low 
but Im satisfied that its in line with our services  approach in similar cases and is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
overall
I think L&G failed Mr and Mrs A here and I note it has accepted my findings. Whilst Ive 
considered what  Mr and Mrs A have said in reply their comments havent  persuaded me to 
change or move away from any of the provisional  findings I made.  Those provisional findings 
now form part of this, my final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Legal & General  Insurance Limited  to make a number of 
payments to Mr and Mrs A:
£500, being its cost to have encapsulated the kitchen and upper hall ceilings.
£181, for unpaid items (toy storage plus the jar set and curtains),  plus interest* upon  
provision of receipts, from the date of payment until settlement is made.
£870, as reimbursement of deductions made  to the contents settlement, plus interest* 
from the date of the settlement until this payment is made.
£100, as compensation for phone call costs.
An amount, upon sight of proof  of payment  date,  equivalent to interest on each  delayed  
payment made by L&G,  as explained  above  and with reference  to the spreadsheet provided, 
to be calculated  from the date of request by Mr and Mrs A until payment was made.
Total compensation for distress and inconvenience of £1,500, if £250 has already been  
paid then only £1,250 now needs to be paid.
Ref: DRN472193712I also require Legal & General Insurance Limited to provide a list of three surveyors to 
Mr and Mrs A, for them to pick one, to assess the internal  and external upvc  fixtures at their 
home for signs of remaining soot damage. Both parties will be bound by the surveyors 
findings. If any damage is found, Legal  & General  Insurance Limited will have to fix it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4721937