K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage, in 2001. We now know that Mrs H was sold a Total  Mortgage Protection  Plan 
(TMPP). A TMPP was a type of product often sold with mortgages  at the time, and it typically 
comprised of a number of different types  of insurances such  as PPI, critical  illness cover and 
life protection.  Consumers  like Mrs H could select either some or all of the products on offer.
Mrs H has only complained about  the PPI part, so thats what  Im responding to here. She 
says Bank  of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold her this cover. 
To keep  things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Halifax.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint (which includes Mrs Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover)  arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information  here.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the case and said they didnt think  we should uphold  the 
mis-sale element of the complaint. 
They also said that although Halifax doesnt accept it did anything  wrong  in relation to the 
commission it obtained as a result of selling the PPI, it has nevertheless made an offer to 
Mrs H as if it had. The adjudicator thought this offer to pay back  some of the cost - in relation 
to the commission  element  - was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. As the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me, in order to decide what is, in my opinion,  fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Hs. I havent set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint. Ive also 
considered the issue of the non-disclosure of the commission  mentioned above. Ive seen 
that Halifax has made an offer in respect  this, and I too think  the offer to refund some of the 
cost to compensate  for the commission  element is fair in the circumstances. Ive 
summarised my reasons for each  of these conclusions below. 
Ref: DRN42711122 
2001 was obviously quite a while ago and we seem to have some, although probably not 
all, of the point of sale documents that were used.  However,  I think  Halifax  made it clear 
enough that Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI if she didnt want to - and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Ive seen the original  mortgage  application form which  she 
signed. I note there  was a section on it about TMPP and she signed her name beside 
this, agreeing it was something she wanted  to have.  In my experience,  there would be 
other documents supporting the optional nature of the sale too, but I also see from 
Halifaxs computerised records that she was asked a few questions typical of such a 
sale. Overall,  this shows in my view, that the application form was clear enough and the 
PPI was probably selected after a discussion with an advisor about what  Mrs H wanted 
to do. I note she also took out the critical illness and life cover and again, in my 
experience of these  sales, all the elements  and their costs of the TMPP would have been 
set out on a schedule for her to read. Records  show the PPI part totaled £4.71 per month  
and I think the evidence strongly implies that Mrs H wanted to protect  herself against 
unforeseen events.  In short, I think she agreed to the PPI although I accept she 
genuinely may not remember  this now.
Mrs H was most likely  sold the PPI as part of an advised sale,  so Halifax had a duty to 
check that it was right for her. In my view,  the evidence about  her circumstances then 
shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. It offered to pay 
around £79 per month to her mortgage for up to a year if shed needed to claim. Ive 
considered all this carefully against her likely job-related benefits and other means she 
may have had, which the PPI would have paid out in addition  to. Overall, I think the 
policy was suitable for her. It offered protection against a mortgage secured against  her 
home.
There was nothing  about Mrs Hs employment  or occupation  which would have made  it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical conditions  
that would  have affected her ability to successfully claim.
Its certainly possible the information Halifax gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it could have  been, but as Ive said, the evidence shows she chose  to take it out. The 
cover wasnt  wrong for Mrs H as Ive mentioned above, or too dissimilar to what  she 
reasonably thought  she was buying  from the information she was likely given at the point 
of sale. It was affordable for her and I therefore  dont  think she would have declined  it 
even if Halifax could  have done  a better job at explaining things.
While  the policy contained certain limitations  or exclusions on claims relating to back and 
mental health conditions, in light of Mrs Hs own circumstances at the time of sale and 
despite these  limitations or exclusions,  the policy wasnt unsuitable for her. So I think she 
would have still thought she had some  good  reasons to take the policy out.
I therefore consider  that Mrs H would have still taken out PPI, even if Halifax didnt do 
everything right. I think the policy provided a useful benefit. I also think  the it was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  she thought she was getting. The evidence  shows it was something 
she wanted to have.
Mrs Hs representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
Ref: DRN42711123number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
However, Mrs Hs representative hasnt said how these points apply to the specific  facts  and 
circumstances of her individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things carefully and how they might  apply in Mrs Hs particular 
case. But the points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions  about  what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
non-disclosure of commission
As I also mentioned above, Ive also considered the issue  of non-disclosure  of commission, 
including whether this resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received under 
the rules that apply   but in any event I note its offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, 
so theres nothing more  it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mrs Hs representative has made a number of points  about this part of the complaint  
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment  and sections 140A  and 140B  of the Consumer 
Credit Act on her complaint. In summary they said Mrs H should get back all the money she 
paid for the policy because  Halifax  failed  to tell her about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid,  the low claims ratio, and the typical restrictions / exclusions on cover.  
Because they say these things meant the policy was poor value, they imply I should find that 
Mrs H wouldnt  have taken out the policy had she known about the level of commission.  Her 
representative says she should receive  a refund of all the premiums  paid.
However, in this case, Halifax  has shown us that the commission for Mrs Hs PPI was less 
than half of what she paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Halifax  has worked  this 
out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission  in Mrs Hs case  was 
less than half the cost of the PPI, and therefore  below the threshold mentioned in the rules 
about compensating consumers.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded that the non-disclosure of 
commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN42711124Plevin - which require a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
So, I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mrs H about the commission  levels in this particular 
case. It follows that I dont  think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship and I dont 
therefore think Halifax treated Mrs H unfairly  in this context. This means it doesnt need  to 
pay Mrs H back  any of the commission she paid for the PPI. 
However, in any event, Halifax has since offered to give back to Mrs H some  of the cost of 
the PPI to compensate her as if it had treated her unfairly. I dont think it needs to do 
anything more.
my decision
Having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide  what  is, in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set out 
above, I do not uphold the mis-sale  element of Mrs Hs complaint or make any award in her 
favour. 
Ive also decided that Bank of Scotland plc didnt need to disclose the commission it 
received, but it has already offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H. 
It should therefore now make arrangements to pay her, if it hasnt done  so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4271112