K820x#14Complaint
Miss L has complained  that Arrow Global Limited chased her for a debt she didnt owe and 
registered a county court judgment  against  her.
Background
Arrow bought an overdraft  debt from a bank in March 2014. The debt was in Miss Ls name.  
Arrow passed it to a debt collection agent.  When the agent couldnt recover  the debt, Arrow 
instructed a firm of solicitors to apply for a county court judgment against Miss L.
The county court judgment was issued in May 2017.  
Miss L said she the debt wasnt  hers and that she hadnt opened the account. Following an 
investigation, Arrow decided to close the account  because of fraud. It applied to the court to 
set aside the judgment on 26 November 2018.
Miss L was still unhappy. She said she repeatedly told Arrow and the debt collection agent 
that shed been the victim  of fraud but Arrow  pursued her anyway. She said she lost her job 
because of the county court judgment, which has affected her career in the financial services 
sector. She said she was forced into a debt relief order and the whole  episode  has affected  
her health  and personal life.
She asked  for compensation  from Arrow.
Arrow refused to pay any compensation.  It said it carried  out an investigation promptly  after 
Miss L raised her concerns about  fraud,  in April 2018. This was after it had obtained the 
county court judgment. As a result of its investigation, it closed the account and applied to 
set aside the judgment. 
Miss L wasnt  happy with Arrows  decision and so she asked this service  to investigate.
An investigator looked into her complaint and decided not to uphold  it. He was satisfied  that 
soon as Arrow became aware of Miss Ls fraud claim, it acted accordingly, by investigating 
her complaint. This resulted in it closing her account  and asking the court to set aside the 
judgment. He concluded that Arrow had done  nothing wrong and so didnt have to pay any 
compensation.
Miss L disagreed with the investigators view. Shes asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid my review of 
the evidence has led me to the same overall  conclusions as those reached by the 
investigator and for much the same  reasons.
Arrow, its solicitors and the bank sent us their records. 
Ref: DRN48573422According to the banks  notes, Miss L had never  denied the account was hers.  It said the 
account was opened in August 2003 and apart from three  card disputes, which the she 
thought were fraud but realised after they werent, there is no other mention of any 
fraudulent activity. The bank couldnt  tell Arrow the account was opened  fraudulently 
because Miss L had never raised such a complaint.
Of course,  this could be because the bank was dealing with someone else using Miss Ls 
identity but Arrow cant be held responsible  for that.
The debt recovery agent also confirmed that she hadnt raised a fraud complaint with it.
Arrows log of phone calls shows that the first time Miss L made  a specific complaint about  
fraud was on 5 April 2018. She told Arrow  that shed never had an overdraft of this amount 
and it couldnt  be hers. She said she had a loan, which she thought shed paid off. She also 
said she believed her sister had taken  out the overdraft.
On 5 May 2018,  Miss L called  again  saying the account wasnt  hers.  Arrow  asked her to 
send it evidence of her signature and proof  of identity. It also said it would contact the bank.  
She made a similar call on 15 June and 1 August 2018. Arrow was still waiting for a 
response from the bank.
I did note that Miss L had called Arrow  in September 2016 to complain about a letter, which  
it kept sending  her, but which had nothing to do with her. No further details are given. But 
even in the subsequent  months, when  legal proceedings were issued, Miss L still didnt 
complain about  fraud.
The solicitors confirmed  they had received two letters  from a debt advice agency acting on 
Miss Ls behalf making offers  of repayment.  Ive seen  those  letters. There  was no suggestion 
from the advice  agency  that the account  was fraudulent. And Miss L didnt contest the legal 
proceedings when Arrow  took her to court.
Based on this evidence,  Im afraid  I cant conclude that Arrow knew  she was complaining 
about fraud before 5 April 2018. At best,  it mightve  thought she was disputing the amount of 
the debt.
I am sincerely sorry for the stress, anxiety and financial  hardship, which Miss L has 
experienced. This must  have been  a worrying time for her and Ive no doubt she felt 
harassed by the letters  from Arrow and its agents. However, I dont believe Arrow knew  she 
was disputing the debt until April 2018.  It was entitled to apply for the county court judgment 
based on the information it had at the time. It was up to Miss L to defend  the court action. 
Nevertheless, as soon as Arrow became aware of her complaint, it carried out an 
investigation. It subsequently closed her account  and applied  to set aside the judgment.
Given these circumstances, I consider that Arrow  has acted promptly and appropriately. I 
dont think it is fair and reasonable to ask it to pay any compensation.
I am sorry  this will be disappointing news for Miss L but I hope my reasons are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN48573423Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4857342