K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that his SIPP which was invested  in a Target Return portfolio managed  by 
Aberdeen Standard Capital Limited (ASC)  formerly Standard  Life Wealth  hasnt 
performed as it shouldve  done or as he expected  it to.
background
ASC was appointed by Mr B and his IFA to manage his SIPP and ISA portfolios on a 
discretionary basis. The SIPP was managed in accordance with ASCs Target Return strategy.
ASCs Target return  strategy  involves  it investing  a reasonable proportion of available assets 
in its Strategic Investment  Allocation  (SIA) fund. This fund invests  in alternatives  to the more 
conventional assets in the rest of the portfolio such as equities.
The SIPP portfolio targeted  a return of LIBOR + 3.5%  - this wouldve been LIBOR + 3% but 
because his IFA didnt  take a fee from the portfolio  it was increased by 0.5%. His ISA was 
placed in a more conventional investment  the Bridge  fund - as Mr B wanted  capital growth  
with regard to his ISA and was prepared to take a higher risk to achieve that. He has not 
complained about the management  of his ISA which has generally performed well.
Mr B and the IFA moved  his SIPP away from a Target Return  strategy in around  August 
2017 and the SIPP started to be invested  in more conventional funds as from then including 
the Bridge fund his ISA was already invested in. In around October 2018 Mr B raised  his 
unhappiness with the performance  of his SIPP during the time the Target  Return strategy 
was applied by ASC. 
ASC discussed  his concerns but as he was still unhappy it provided a final response to the 
complaint. It said that Mr B had completed an application  for its services that confirmed ASC 
hadnt assessed investment suitability, or suitability regarding his wider  financial 
circumstances, which it said his IFA took full responsibility for.
It said it couldnt comment on the suitability of the investment strategy  as this was something  
the IFA was responsible for. It said the SIPP strategy was tailored to Mr Bs medium low risk 
mandate and the 10 plus years he was willing to invest  for. 
ASC accepted that the returns werent  good in the period the Target return strategy was in 
place and apologised for this. But it said it couldnt  offer compensation for this as the 
strategy isnt guaranteed to produce a return, as made clear  in its literature.
Mr B then referred his complaint to us and one of our investigators considered it. He didnt 
uphold the complaint. He said that ASCs  responsibility was to manage Mr Bs SIPP in 
accordance with the mandate given to it by Mr B and his IFA. He thought that it had done  
this and had exercised its discretion fairly and hadnt  been negligent.
Mr Bs IFA responded to the investigators opinion and, in short,  made the following points:
The timescale of 10 plus years was one agreed to on the basis  the SIPP  was intended  
to provide an income throughout Mr Bs lifetime but this doesnt mean this was the 
intended timescale for the investment strategy.
The welcome letter it has seen doesnt refer to a 10 year timescale but describes the 
objective as capital growth  targeting a return of six month LIBOR + 3.5%  annualised on 
a rolling three year basis.
Ref: DRN41216612The target return strategy is meant to manage volatility  but has proved to be the most 
volatile part of Mr Bs portfolio.
Mr B understands about investment underperformance and that it was an uncertain  
period which is why he moved  to a volatility-managed  solution.
What is difficult to understand  is how the Target  return strategy cant  be seen as flawed 
or badly managed  when conventional  portfolios  have produced  a positive return over the 
same period.
The investigator responded to the points  made  by the IFA. He said the risk profile 
questionnaire completed  by the IFA for Mr B selected 10 years  plus and made it clear that 
this was the period for the investment strategy. He said that he couldnt say ASC had done  
something wrong because the SIPP hadnt provided positive returns, as no guarantees were 
given that it would. 
The investigator said that all the asset  classes in the SIPP generally performed well apart 
from the SIA fund which was the part of the Target return strategy that was intended to help 
manage volatility. He said that as the SIA fund is designed  to produce positive returns in a 
flat or falling market  it isnt going  to produce great returns when markets  are doing well  
which they were generally doing between the beginning of 2016 and end of 2017.
In response the IFA repeated that it was intended that the SIPP funds would be invested for 
10 plus years but still argued  this didnt mean  the portfolio would be invested using the 
Target return strategy for that period. The IFA said that a proposal had been prepared  in 
2014 by ASC - before  any meeting took place - which  referred to a three to five year time 
horizon and that if there had been  such a drastic change in ASCs outlook this shouldve 
been communicated. She questioned why exposure to the SIA fund hadnt  been reduced 
when the market was rising.  
The investigator provided a further response  but didnt change his opinion so the matter  has 
been referred to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ASCs role was to manage  Mr Bs SIPP and ISA investments  on a discretionary basis  in 
accordance with the agreed mandate for these. With regard to the SIPP Mr Bs objective was 
identified as wealth  preservation and I have seen nothing that suggests that this wasnt his 
objective. His risk profile, based on the Risk Profile Questionnaire that was completed, was 
identified as medium low. ASC identified a Target  return strategy with a target  of LIBOR  plus 
3.5% was a match to the mandate for Mr Bs objective and risk profile. ASC provided a 
detailed proposal  in June 2015 to Mr B and his IFA which they agreed to. ASC then proceeded 
to manage Mr Bs SIPP portfolio in accordance with what was set out in the proposal.  
As ASC was a discretionary  manager  it was for it to decide how best to manage  the SIPP 
without reference  to Mr B or his IFA. But it did hold annual meetings to discuss performance 
as well as provide quarterly reports.
The Risk Profile Questionnaire  which Mr B and his IFA both signed - explained that it was to 
help ASC understand if any of its portfolios were suited to the clients  attitude to risk and 
preferences, not to assess his attitude to risk and preferences for the entire investment market.
Ref: DRN41216613The first question asks Is the account profiled by Standard Life or by a Third  Party?  with 
the answer already provided that it hasnt assessed  investment suitability or suitability 
regarding the clients wider financial circumstances and that the adviser assumes 
responsibility for this in full. The tick box is completed to indicate the IFA agreed with this. So 
ASC were not responsible for ensuring  that what Mr B was invested in was suitable. That is 
something the IFA was responsible for.
The second  question is about the clients chosen risk strategy with Risk Band 3  which  is 
identified as medium low - selected  for the SIPP. A medium  low risk is described as:
You are prepared to accept a moderate amount of risk over your time horizon. You want  to 
protect the value of your investments but you want them  to grow as well. Under  normal 
circumstances you would  not expect your investments  to fall and rise sharply in value.
Im satisfied that the Target return strategy fitted the medium low risk profile and objective of 
Mr B. The investment proposal  of June 2015 sets out the Target return  strategy. This 
explains that ASCs  investment  approach  includes investing a proportion of the portfolio in its 
SIA fund and that this when combined  with other  funds in the portfolio aims  to reduce 
volatility and smooth investment returns regardless  of what  markets are doing,  increasing 
the likelihood of it delivering Mr Bs goals over the time horizon.
The IFA has raised issues with regard to both the SIA fund and the time horizon which  I will 
address. With regard to the SIA fund the IFA has pointed out that this has been  the most 
volatile part of the SIPP portfolio. The SIA fund is part of the overall  portfolio and shouldnt  
be looked at in isolation as it is the volatility of the portfolio  as a whole that is important. And 
the fact the SIA fund has been more  volatile than expected does not mean that ASC has 
failed to manage Mr Bs SIPP as it shouldve done or hasnt managed it in accordance with 
the agreed mandate.
From my understanding about  what happened with regard to the SIA fund, in early 2016  the 
fund manager  expected  steady economic  growth  in the US that would lead to interest  rate 
rises and positioned the fund accordingly.  The fund also had a number of currency positions 
that favoured the US Dollar. But interest  rates didnt increase as expected  and the currency 
changes didnt arise  so the fund suffered losses.
Managing funds involves positioning funds to take advantage of what  the manager expects 
to happen in the future. But there  is no certainty  that a mangers expectation  will arise.  
Clearly it would be expected that they would get more right than wrong but just because US 
interest rates didnt  rise as expected  doesnt  mean  the manager did anything wrong. 
It isnt for me to second guess decisions  made by an investment manager. But I would 
comment that the managers decision seems perfectly reasonable based on US interest 
rates having  been increased  in December 2015 by 0.25% to 0.5%  and the US Federal 
Reserve giving  a medium term projection  for interest  rates  of 1.5%  for 2016.  
The performance of the SIA fund was no doubt  disappointing  but this isnt evidence that ASC 
did anything wrong.
Ref: DRN41216614The IFA also questioned  why the investment manager didnt reduce exposure to the SIA 
fund when the market was rising.  But I wouldnt have expected the manager  to do that given 
the purpose of the SIA fund is to help reduce losses and volatility if there  is a drop in the 
market. If every time the market rises the manager moves from the SIA fund into equities or 
other conventional assets then this potentially will lead to greater losses and volatility when 
there is s drop in the market that would negate the purpose for which the SIA fund is 
included in the portfolio in the first place - Mr B is likely to have  had a basis to complain  
about its actions  in those circumstances. 
The IFA has also questioned the 10 year timescale for the SIPP  being  invested using the 
Target return strategy.  The IFA accepts that Mr B intended that the SIPP portfolio would 
remain invested for 10 plus years but not that this meant the Target return strategy  would be 
applied over the whole of that period. She has pointed to an earlier proposal completed by 
ASC in 2014, before any meeting with the client, which refers to a three to five year 
timescale and has suggested that if ASC had moved  away from that timescale it shouldve 
highlighted this. 
But both the IFA and Mr B signed the Risk Profile Questionnaire  which identified the timescale 
as 10 plus years. And the investment proposal  that was provided to Mr B and his IFA in June 
2015 set out clearly that the time horizon was 10 years plus for the Target return  strategy. 
There is nothing in the proposal  that would suggest that the strategy  would only be applied  
for a more  limited time or that ASC would apply some other strategy  at some point. In the 
circumstances I think the timescale for investment in the Target return  strategy was clear  
although I would point out that this does not necessarily mean that the strategy might not 
achieve its target return before 10 years.
In summary  ASC was appointed as discretionary portfolio manager of Mr Bs SIPP. Any 
investment decisions  it made  with regard to his SIPP  were  at its discretion. I have seen no 
persuasive evidence  that it hasnt managed his SIPP appropriately and in accordance  with 
his agreed risk profile and objective.  This complaint is really about the performance of his 
SIPP and that isnt something that we would generally comment on.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4121661