K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that, when his two mortgage  products ended in 2008  and 2009, Bank 
of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) failed  to treat him fairly by putting  his best interests  first. 
He says that Halifax wrote to him explaining  that he didnt need to take any further  action. 
Mr B says that this was the bare minimum Halifax needed to do, but he maintains that 
Halifax should have  explained that he was eligible for other mortgage products. 
Mr B says that if Halifax had not abused an interest  rate cap re-set mechanism to his grave 
disadvantage he would  have been  saving £1,000 per month  on his Halifax mortgage. He 
wants to be reimbursed for this additional  interest   with Halifax thereby  admitting  a 
negligent breach of FSA/FCA regulation.
This current complaint  arose on the back  of another complaint made by Mr B. That complaint 
was that Halifax  failed to implement an interest rate cap on its Standard  Variable Rate  
(SVR). On 18 July 2019 another ombudsman issued a decision explaining  that that 
complaint had been brought  out of time. This means that I wont  be commenting any further 
on anything covered in that complaint.
background
Ive read everything  Mr B has sent us about this complaint.  Much  of it relates to Mr Bs 
perceptions of how he considers the financial crash  of 2008 has impacted on his individual 
finances. Hes sent us academic papers about advertising, various documents  from the 
regulator (at the time,  the Financial Services Authority (FSA), but now the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA))  and hes made very detailed comments about his complaint.
But the issue in the complaint is fairly simple. It can be summarised  as follows:
Mr B has two mortgage products with Halifax which are the subject  of this complaint. They 
were taken out on a product switch dated  13 January 2006. One was on a product which 
ended on 30 September 2008, thereafter  reverting to SVR. The other  was to refinance a 
product which  was due to expire on 31 January 2006. This was rearranged  onto a new 
interest rate which ended on 31 March 2009, and reverted  to SVR. 
Mr B took out a further advance on 15 August 2007. Mr B was borrowing a total of £740,752 
plus £498 for fees, over a term of 11 years across all his mortgage  accounts. £1,250 was on 
a repayment basis and £740,000 was interest-only. 
The offer sets out details of all the borrowing (including the two products expiring on 
30 September 2008 and 31 March 2009) and states  explicitly that these loans will revert to 
SVR after those dates.
When the products  were  due to expire,  Halifax wrote to Mr B explaining  that the products 
would revert to SVR. Mr B says that Halifax should  have  told him about  alternative mortgage 
products available to him. If it had done so, according to Mr B, he would not have fallen into 
financial difficulty on his Halifax mortgage accounts  and other financial products.
Mr B has explained that his work  distracted him from attending  to his personal affairs during 
the financial crisis. But, he argues, this doesnt  mean that Halifax is absolved  from its 
responsibility to treat him fairly. Mr B says that Halifax failed to conform to the highest 
standards of behaviour, putting  corporate profits above fair treatment of customers. This 
Ref: DRN40309532conflict of interest came  to light in a 2015 report by the Prudential  Regulation Authority and 
the FCA.
Regrettably Mr B fell into arrears and Halifax was granted a possession order. 
In 2017, following the FCAs directions, Halifax refunded arrears fees to Mr Bs mortgage 
account.  Mr B asked Halifax to provide more information about this, specifically what error 
the bank had made which prompted the FCA to tell Halifax to do this.
In its final response letter  Halifax acknowledged  it hadnt responded to Mr Bs request, and 
apologised. Halifax  explained that the FCA thought it could  have done  more to understand 
the circumstances of customers in financial difficulty.  Rather  than reviewing every single 
account, Halifax decided  instead to refund fees to all customers accounts between January 
2009 and January 2016. Halifax was satisfied it had complied with its regulatory  obligations  
in this regard.
Mr B brought his complaint to us.  He says that if Halifax  had not abused the interest rate 
cap on his mortgage  to his disadvantage, he would have been  saving £1,000 monthly on his 
Halifax mortgages, or would otherwise have had the opportunity to seek  out products from 
other lenders. Instead, he says he was trapped  at Halifax and tormented for a decade.
An investigator looked at the complaint, but didnt think  it should  be upheld.  He wasnt  
persuaded Halifax owed Mr B any duty to advise  him of alternative products  when  his 
existing products came to an end.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators findings and has asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition  of 
arguments. In what  follows,  I have, by necessity, summarised  events in rather less detail 
than has been  presented.
No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
As I said above, Mr B has already  had an ombudsmans decision that we cant  look at his 
complaint about  the interest rate cap on his mortgage. So although  Ive noted all the points 
Mr B has made about that issue on this current complaint, I have no legal power to consider 
his arguments  on this topic.
Ref: DRN40309533I must also clarify  that the Financial Ombudsman  Service isnt a regulator and we have no 
supervisory power over Halifax or any other  business in the Lloyds Banking Group of 
companies. Its not our role to ensure that Halifax has complied with relevant regulations or 
to fine and punish it if it has made a mistake. Responsibility  for that rests  with the FCA. My 
role is to look at this specific complaint and decide  if Halifax has acted fairly and reasonably  
in all the circumstances.
Its also up to me to determine what are the relevant issues  in a complaint. We dont take 
instructions either from consumers or the financial businesses they are complaining about; if 
we were to do so, this would compromise our impartiality as an independent  dispute  
resolution service. Mr B has given very clear direction  about  the issues  he considers to be 
relevant, but the question I find I have to decide in this case  is relatively simple: was Halifax 
under an obligation, when  Mr Bs mortgage  products came  to an end, to identify and advise 
him on the products which Halifax thought would best suit his needs, if he didnt contact the 
bank to request  a new mortgage product?
I note that Mr B had previously switched products, in August  2005. Given this, Im satisfied 
that it is more likely than not that Mr B was aware  that, once a mortgage  product expired, he 
could apply for a new one. He didnt do so when his products expired in September  2008 or 
March 2009. Mr B says that he was very busy,  but says Halifax  should have acted in his best 
interests and made sure he was offered alternative products at the most favourable interest  
rates.
Banking is largely an automated process,  the majority of transactions  and account  
administration being conducted on a computerised basis. When  a mortgage product  is about  
to expire, Halifaxs system  is set up to generate a letter to the customer  to inform  them  of 
this. I see that Mr B accepts he received such notifications from Halifax, but says he didnt 
understand what they meant.
Mr B says that he was completely confused about  how his mortgage  product worked  and 
didnt understand  either the annual  statements  or the letters  explaining that his mortgage 
product was coming to an end. But I find Mr B to be financially sophisticated,  and I also cant 
ignore that he had previously switched mortgage products. So on balance  Im not persuaded 
that he lacked  understanding  about the implications of his mortgage  products  coming  to an 
end. Furthermore, the annual statements  are clear and in line with the format  prescribed by 
the regulator.
I find there was no obligation on the part of Halifax to review Mr Bs accounts and provide 
unsolicited advice about what products would best suit him. That could only be done if Mr B 
specifically asked Halifax to give him advice in the course of an application for a new product 
based on his circumstances at the time.  It was up to Mr B to contact Halifax if he wanted a 
new product. In the circumstances,  I cant hold Halifax responsible for any additional costs of 
being on SVR if Mr B didnt do so.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping  for. As I explained at the outset, the 
regulatory issues hes focussed on are outside  my remit. If he rejects this decision, Mr B will 
be free to pursue his grievances against  Halifax through  the course, if he wishes to. I would 
suggest Mr B takes legal advice before embarking on any court  proceedings.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN40309534Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4030953