K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mr S says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr S case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
From  what we know about how HSBC sold PPI at the time,  Mr S wouldve had to sign to 
indicate he wanted it separately  to where  he signed for the credit card. So I think HSBC 
made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he cant remember this.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seem to have had a need for the cover. While he had some sick pay the PPI wouldve 
paid out on top of this and for longer.  
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have 
put him off taking  out the cover.  
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But HSBC  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because : 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  HSBC  didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said. But these points dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back  to Mr S any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Ref: DRN43690502HSBC should  re-work  the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr S the difference  between 
what Mr S owes and what he wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HSBC should also pay Mr S 8%* simple  interest  if he 
paid off their credit card at some point.
* Businesses  have  to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4369050