K821x#15Complaint
Miss J is unhappy about the way in which Scottish  Widows Limited  (Scottish  Widows) 
handled her query about her term assurance  policy. She says that had she been  provided 
with clearer information  about the critical illness cover, she wouldnt have cancelled it.
Background
I issued my provisional decision in November 2019,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I was intending to
uphold Miss Js complaint. I asked  everyone  to send  me any further comments  and
information before I reached a final decision.
Scottish Widows  responded to my provisional decision.  In summary, it says it doesnt  agree 
with the outcome as it doesnt feel it should  be held responsible for Miss Js decision to 
cancel the policy.  In its submissions, Scottish  Widows  asked me to consider the following 
points before I issue my final decision:
Miss J ought to have  known that her policy included critical illness cover,  prior to her 
telephone call in March 2018.  It says she would have been told about the policy  
benefits when  she applied for the policy in 2016. It also says Miss J was sent 
information about the policy following the sale of the policy, and again after she 
raised a complaint about it in early  2017;
It believes that Miss J had called them in March  2018, with the intention of cancelling  
the policy. It says it was clear that Miss J wanted to cancel the policy before any 
discussion about the policy benefits had taken place;
It maintains that the benefits were  discussed  during  the March  2018 telephone call 
and that it wasnt  the responsibility of their call handler to assume  that Miss J didnt 
understand what had been discussed. 
Miss J also responded  to my provisional  decision. She confirmed she was happy  with the 
outcome of her complaint,  but she thinks she should  be entitled to more compensation.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered what both parties  have said, I still think this complaint should be upheld. 
Scottish Widows  responded to my provisional decision with a number of additional points. 
Having reviewed what its said, these  points dont change my decision. Ill explain why.
Scottish Widows  says Miss J ought  to have been aware of the fact that her policy included 
critical illness cover, as the cover would have been  discussed when she initially applied for it 
in 2016. It also says that documentation about the policy would have been sent to Miss J on 
three separate occasions following the sale, which  would have set out the cover it provided.
In addition to this, Scottish Widows  has provided some information  about a complaint which 
Miss J had raised about the policy in 2017.  It says this shows  that Miss J ought  to have 
known that she had critical illness cover in place. It also says that following this complaint, 
Ref: DRN46121472Miss J was paid some  compensation and was given some information about the policy 
benefits.
As stated in my provisional decision, it is clear from the telephone call recording in question,  
that Miss J had contacted Scottish  Widows  in an attempt to understand what exactly the 
policy provided her with cover for. Presumably, she did this because  didnt understand what  
she was covered for and therefore  wanted  to gain a better understanding of the policy 
benefits. Based on the questions she asked and her responses to the information provided 
by the Scottish  Widows representative,  Im satisfied that Miss J cancelled the policy under 
the mistaken belief  that the policy only covered her in the event of a terminal  illness.
As a result, in this particular  case,  I dont think that anything that happened prior to the call, 
has any bearing on the outcome of this complaint. While I did take into account  the fact that 
Miss J would have received some information  about  the policy in the years following the 
sale, Im not persuaded that shows that Miss J still remembered that the policy included 
critical illness cover by March 2018, when  she spoke to the Scottish Widows representative. 
As I stated above and in my provisional  decision, its clear from the telephone call that there 
was some confusion on the part of Miss J about  the policy benefits, which  I think  ought to 
have been clarified during the telephone  call.
In addition to the above,  Scottish Widows says that it thinks  the purpose  of Miss Js call was 
to cancel the policy. As a result, it doesnt feel that any clearer  information about  the policy 
benefits would have impacted on Miss Js decision to cancel the policy.  
Having considered the information provided, I dont agree. As stated above and in my 
provisional decision Im satisfied that the purpose  of Miss Js call was to find out what  she 
was covered for so that she could make an informed decision as to whether she should  keep  
the cover  in place.  I think its more  likely  than not that had the purpose  of the call been to 
cancel the policy,  Miss J would have done so without first enquiring about the policy  benefits. 
Finally, Scottish Widows  says it believes it gave Miss J sufficient information about  the 
critical illness cover during the telephone  call. It also says that it wasnt the responsibility of 
their representative to assume that Miss J didnt understand what had been discussed.  
For the same reasons  I set out in my provisional  decision, I am satisfied that that the 
representative explained the key benefits of the policy during the telephone  call. Im not 
however, satisfied that the representative did enough  to correct Miss Js misunderstanding of 
what the policy covered,  when  I think it was clear she didnt understand that the policy  
included critical illness cover. 
While Scottish  Widows has said that it wasnt  the responsibility of its representative  to 
assume that Miss J didnt  understand what had been discussed, I do think that in this case,  
where it was clear from what Miss J was saying that she didnt understand the answer to the 
question she asked,  the representative  should  have done more to ensure  that any 
misunderstanding was remedied before  Miss J cancelled the policy.  
In response to my provisional decision,  Miss J said she feels the recommended  
compensation of £100 is too low. She said the compensation should be increased  to take 
into account the impact  this complaint  has had on her health  and the time and energy she 
spent on pursuing  it. She says that shed be willing to accept compensation in amount of 
£150, which equates to approximately half the premiums she paid for her policy.
Ref: DRN46121473Ive thought about what Miss J has said. But for the same reasons Ive set out in my 
provisional decision, I think that an amount of £100 would be fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Based  on the information provided,  including  what  Miss J 
has told us, I havent  seen enough  to persuade  me that any further  compensation is due.
My final decision
Based on everything  Ive said above and in my provisional decision,  I uphold Miss Js 
complaint.
To put things right, I recommend that Scottish Widows Limited pay Miss J £100 as 
compensation in recognition of her trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.  
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Copy of the provisional decision
Complaint
Miss J is unhappy  about the way in which Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish  Widows) handled her 
query about her term assurance policy. She says that had she been provided with clearer information  
about the critical  illness cover, she wouldnt have cancelled it.
Background
In December 2016, Miss J was sold critical illness policy  with life cover alongside her mortgage. The 
policy was sold by another business and provided cover  in the event of critical illness,  terminal  illness 
or death. 
In March 2018, Miss J contacted Scottish Widows to enquire about the policys benefits as she was 
unsure of what she was covered for. Following  a conversation with the Scottish Widows 
representative, Miss J asked  for it to be cancelled.  She explained that she didnt need  the policy, as it 
didnt provide  her with the cover shed  asked for when  she applied for her mortgage.
Unhappy that shed been sold a policy which she thought  she didnt need, Miss J raised  a complaint 
with the business that sold her the policy. It was at this stage, Miss J says she was told that the policy 
shed cancelled included critical illness  cover.
As a result, Miss J raised a complaint about  the information she received  from Scottish Widows during 
the call in which shed  queried the policys benefits. In response  to her complaint, Scottish  Widows 
didnt think it had done anything  wrong. So, the complaint was brought  to our service for an 
independent review.
Our adjudicator looked  into Miss Js complaint, but didnt think it was one we should uphold. He 
concluded that Scottish Widows had explained the benefits to Miss J during the telephone call and 
therefore didnt need to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN46121474As Miss J didnt agree  with our adjudicators findings  on her complaint, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Im currently  minded to uphold  Miss Js complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss J says she wasnt given clear  information about her policys benefits during  a telephone call with 
Scottish Widows. She says shed specifically  called Scottish Widows to ask about  policys benefits as 
she was worried she was paying for something she didnt  want  or need.
Scottish Widows  has provided us with a recording  of the telephone  call in which the policy  benefits 
were discussed. They say this shows that Miss J was told about  all the benefits  of her policy. 
Ive listened to the recording  of this telephone call. Based on what  I heard, Im satisfied that the 
purpose of Miss Js call was to obtain information  about the policy benefits  and clarify the 
circumstances under  which  she could  claim. Its clear from what  she says, that she didnt  know much 
about the policy, other  than its cost.
At the end of the call, Miss J explained that she didnt  need  terminal illness or life cover and requested 
that the policy  be cancelled. She explained  that she didnt have any beneficiaries and therefore  wasnt 
concerned about what happened to her mortgage or her property in the event of her death. Based on 
what Miss J said about  her reasons for cancelling the policy, Im satisfied that she cancelled  the 
policy, under  the mistaken belief that it only included  cover for terminal  illnesses and death.  So, the 
issue I need  to consider is whether Scottish Widows  did anything to cause or contribute  to Miss Js 
misunderstanding of the circumstances  under  which  the policy would  pay out.
During the conversation between Scottish Widows representative and Miss J, Im satisfied that the 
representative explained the key benefits of the policy  to Miss J. I dont,  however, think the 
representative did enough  to ensure  Miss J understood what  was discussed, specifically in the 
context of the questions she asked and the statements she made about  the policy benefits. 
An example of this can be found in the initial  stages of the call when the Scottish Widows  
representative explained the critical illness benefit.  Following the representatives brief explanation 
about the cover, Miss J responded  with the following question,  Is it like terminal  illnesses?, to which 
the representative  responded with yip, it will also pay out if you were  to get diagnosed with a terminal  
illness or if you were to pass away. Given the critical  illness cover  was the main  benefit  of Miss Js 
policy, I would have expected the Scottish Widows representative to have responded  appropriately  to 
Miss Js question and clarify the nature  of the benefit, instead of proceeding to the explanation of the 
terminal illness cover.
While its not in dispute that the representative  explained  that the policy  included critical illness cover,  
I think  its clear from the Miss Js response to the explanation and her reasons for cancelling the 
policy, that there was some confusion over the critical illness benefit  and the circumstances under 
which the policy would  have paid a benefit.
Miss J has told us that she wouldnt have cancelled  the policy,  had she known that it included critical 
illness cover. Having considered  this, I find what shes said plausible. Given the main  benefit  of the 
policy was the critical illness cover, I think its likely  that that she purchased the policy for this benefit.
It follows that I think its more likely Miss J would  have chosen to keep the cover in place, had Scottish  
Widows clarified the fact that the policy would cover her in the event  that she was diagnosed with a 
critical illness. So, I think that Miss J has lost out because of what  Scottish Widows did wrong.
Ref: DRN46121475To put things right Miss J has asked for a full refund the premiums she paid towards her policy. Shes  
also asked that Scottish Widows arrange a critical  illness policy with another  provider. Miss J has 
specifically told us that she doesnt want her policy re-instated with Scottish  Widows due to the way 
its treated her following  her complaint.
Ive thought about what would amount to fair compensation in this case. As Miss J has had the benefit 
of cover up to the point  she cancelled the policy, I dont think it would be fair, or reasonable,  for me to 
ask Scottish Widows to refund her the premiums she paid for her policy. 
Ive also thought  about  Miss Js request that the critical illness cover be reinstated  with another  
provider. This wouldnt be something wed be able to ask Scottish Widows to do. There are instances 
where we can ask a business to reinstate  a policy with themselves on similar terms.  But Miss J has 
told us that this isnt something shed  like us to do. If Miss J wants  to have critical illness  cover in 
place, shell need approach a provider  of her choice directly. 
In this case, I think that it would  be fair for Scottish Widows to pay Miss J some compensation  for her 
trouble and upset. Miss J has explained that this situation has been distressing and has left her 
without suitable cover in place, which shell now need to remedy.  I think an amount of £100 would be 
reasonable in the circumstances.
My provisional decision
I currently uphold this complaint.
To put things right, I recommend that Scottish Widows Limited pay Miss J £100 as compensation in 
recognition of her trouble  and upset.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4612147