K822xcomplaint
Ms D complains that Next Retail Limited wont write-off her debt.
background
Ms D entered into a credit agreement with Next in May 2017 and Next says that she ran up a 
debt with purchases made in November and December 2017.  It says that she contacted it 
about the debt in June  2018 and asked  for the debt to be written-off because of her medical  
issues. Next suggested  a debt repayment plan and asked for further medical  evidence  (and 
it offered to cover the cost of a letter from her doctor). Next says that Ms D provided  a copy 
of her benefits claim review. It said that the responsible course of action was to register  a 
default and for Ms D to pay £1 each month (but given  her health issues it said that it wouldnt 
refer the debt to a debt collection company). Ms D wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service. She complains  that Next hasnt agreed to write-off her debt, 
about the service  that shes received, that she wants it to delete the medical  and benefits  
information that she sent to it and about the increase in her credit  limit.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think  that 
Next had acted  unreasonably  so she said that she couldnt  fairly ask it to write-off  Ms Ds 
debt.
Ms D has asked for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman  but shed provided no 
further information in response  to the investigators recommendation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A lender is required to respond to a customers financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. That doesnt mean that it must write-off a customers  debt, or take any other 
particular action, as whats  appropriate  in each  case will depend on the customers  individual 
circumstances.
When Next was contacted by Ms D about  her financial difficulties and health  issues  it 
suggested a debt repayment  plan and it asked her for up to date medical information to 
support her claim. She said that she couldnt  afford to provide a letter  from her doctor  but 
offered to provide a copy of her benefits  claim review. Next offered to cover  the cost of a 
letter from her doctor.
On the basis of the evidence that it had received,  Next then said that it believed  the 
responsible course  of action in these circumstances  was to register a default  and for Ms D to 
pay it £1 each month  if she was able to do so  and that it wouldnt refer her debt to a debt 
collection company  because of her health  issues. I consider that it acted promptly  and 
sympathetically to her financial difficulties. And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in 
these circumstances  for me to require Next to write-off  Ms Ds debt.
And I consider that it was fair and reasonable for Next to ask Ms D to provide further medical 
evidence and other information  in support of her claim. In an e-mail  to Next in June 2018, 
Ms D said that she was happy to provide evidence of her benefits entitlement  but couldnt 
afford to pay for a letter  from her doctor.  Next then offered to pay for the letter  from her 
Ref: DRN46802422doctor and accepted the benefits claim review that she provided. So Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that the service that she received from Next fell below an 
acceptable level. And Ms D received £30 compensation from Next in August  2018.
Ms D now says that she wants Next to delete  the evidence  that she provided about her 
benefits claim and the medical information that she sent it. The investigator  has contacted 
Next and it has said that it will delete that information. I consider that to be fair and 
reasonable.
When Ms D's account was opened in May 2017 it had a credit limit of £350. When  the credit 
limit was reviewed six months later, Next offered  to increase the credit limit to £3,750. It says 
that it checked Ms Ds credit score and, in the six months that her account had been  opened,  
shed consistently  made  payments higher than the minimum  required. So it says that the 
increased credit limit that it offered to Ms D was appropriate  in the circumstances. And 
although the increase was larger than I would normally expect, Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that it was irresponsible  for Next to have increased her 
credit limit or that the increased credit limit was unaffordable for her at that time.  I also 
consider that Next acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. Ms D 
accepted the increased credit limit and used some of that amount to make  purchases the 
following day. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Next has acted incorrectly  in its 
dealings with Ms D. And I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to 
write-off her debt or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4680242