K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003 
alongside a credit card. Mrs P says Barclays Bank  UK PLC,  trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold
her the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs P says the PPI was taken out over the internet, and that the optionality of the policy 
wasnt made clear. But based  on the evidence Ive seen I think  this was a postal sale.  I also 
think that Barclays made it clear Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this.
I say this having seen a copy of the application  form Mrs P completed  and signed. From 
looking at the type of application form it is, alongside Barclays  screen shots of Mrs Ps 
account holdings,  I am persuaded that this was a postal  sale and not an internet sale. Ive 
also seen the application form included a section with PPI where Mrs P put a cross in the 
yes box to agree to the policy.  But there was also the option to mark the no box or leave 
this section blank  if Mrs P didnt want the policy  so I think it was clear  that PPI was an 
optional extra. Mrs P signed this application form so I think this reflected  what she wanted at 
the time.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P so it didnt have to check if it was right for her - 
but it did have  to make sure Mrs P got the information she needed to decide  if the policy was 
right for her.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  And Mrs P feels strongly  that she wasnt given any information about the 
PPI. But, Mrs P chose to take out the PPI so I think she wanted this type of cover.  Based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected  by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for her if 
something went wrong. 
Mrs P says she didnt need PPI because she had sufficient other means  to cover her 
repayments in the event  she was suddenly unable to work.  Mrs P told us she was entitled to 
six months full, followed by six months half six pay from her employer,  and wouldve also 
been entitled to redundancy pay. Upon a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid out for up 
to 12 months, and in addition to her sick pay and redundancy  pay. So these  funds couldve 
been used for other expenses.
Mrs P told Barclays she couldve  also relied  on her husband to support her. But help from 
others cant always be guaranteed, as their circumstances  can also change  over time. In 
addition to this Mrs P told us about a private medical policy  she had access to. But this 
policy wouldve covered  her medical  expenses and wouldnt have covered her for the same  
Ref: DRN44854422things as PPI. So overall,  I still think the policy wouldve been useful for her and I dont think  
better information wouldve put her off taking out the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4485442