K821x#15complaint 
Mr S has complained about advice he received from Portafina LLP to transfer a defined  
benefit occupational pension scheme  (OPS) he held with his former employer and Additional  
Voluntary Contribution pension  (AVC) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). The 
funds within  the SIPP were then used to invest in several unregulated collective investment 
schemes (UCIS).
background 
In 2014, Mr S was introduced to Portafina after hed been in contact with another business, 
from here on referred to as Firm C. 
At the time,  Firm C was an appointed representative  of a regulated business, Firm S. Firm S 
was authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority to provide  investment advice but it wasnt 
permitted, nor was Firm C, to provide pension transfer advice. 
Mr S spoke to Firm C about investing his pension. But it wasnt  possible to make  the 
investments through his OPS so Firm C referred Mr S to Portafina for advice about  
transferring his pension.  
Portafinas Suitability  Report, dated  17 February  2015, recorded that: 
Mr S was 53, with an expected retirement age of 55
He was married and employed, with an income of approximately £34,000  p/a
He owned  his home, mortgage free. The sale of his previous property had provided a 
cash fund of £30,000
He had no investments
He had a balanced attitude  to risk
His final salary  OPS  would provide an annual income of £28,083 from age 65 if no 
tax free cash was taken
Tax free cash of £129,612  was available, with a reduced pension of £19,442
His plan would provide a spouses  pension of 50% income
The transfer value  of his OPS was £321,483  and for his AVC was £20,240
Enhanced death benefits were a significant  priority for him, as he wished to provide 
his wife with the best possible widows pension in retirement.
Ref: DRN48472992Mr Ss Main  Stated Objectives were recorded  as:
Would like earlier retirement age to scheme normal retirement age
Lifetime Hurdle Rate is acceptable
Projected future returns are acceptable
Willing to take more  risk
Does not want an escalating annuity
Death benefits
Wants ownership and control
Future drawdown (tax free cash at age 55/draw income)
Belief that interest rates  may increase so potentially devaluing the OPS  transfer  
value in future
Consolidation
Performance
Switch to lower charges
In its suitability letter, Portafina explained that a growth rate of 10.7% was required for the 
new personal pension  to match the benefits Mr S was entitled  to through  his OPS. And it 
said that a growth  rate of 5.63% was required if Mr S went  into drawdown. Based on Mr Ss 
risk classification, it estimated the personal pension would grow  at a rate of 6.76%, not 
including the advice and plan charges. Having considered  all the information,  Portafina 
recommended that Mr S transfer his OPS and AVC to a SIPP.  It said that it wasnt providing 
advice regarding the investments within the SIPP as this was to be done by Firm C. 
Although Portafina  wasnt  providing advice regarding where Mr Ss fund would be invested 
after the transfer, it set out its fund  recommendations suggesting  that, due to his risk 
profile, Mr S invest in the following  assets:
Cash 10%
Equities 60%
Other Fixed Interest 12%
Secured Structured  Bonds 18%
Portafina explained that secured bonds werent regulated  collective investments and could 
only be recommended  by authorised and regulated independent financial advisers (IFAs)  
such as itself. It said that while secured bonds  werent covered by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS), its recommendations  relating to them were. It added that 
secured bonds  werent unstable and therefore  would reduce the overall volatility of Mr Ss 
portfolio.
The recommended  SIPP was established in 2015  and Mr Ss OPS  and AVC were 
transferred over. 100%  of the fund was invested  in cash. The servicing rights for the SIPP  
were transferred over to Firm C in February  2015. Firm C invested  approximately  19%, 
(£65,600) of Mr Cs SIPP fund in the following UCIS funds:
£11,600 - Biomass Investment Plc
£  9,600 - Brisa Investments Plc 
£  9,600 - Strategic Residential  Dev
£11,600 - Lakeview  UK Investments 
£11,600 - Motion  Picture Global
£11,600 - Real Estate Investments 
Ref: DRN48472993Approximately 2%, £8,000, was left as cash and the remainder  was allocated to regulated  
investments.
In 2017, Mr S complained to Portafina  about the advice  he received to transfer his OPS and 
AVC to a SIPP. He said that the advice was negligent and wasnt suitable  for someone with 
no investment experience. He said that Portafina had ignored the critical yield of 10.7%, 
didnt consider the suitability of the underlying  investments  and passed  this responsibility to 
Firm C. And Portafina accepted introductions from unregulated companies knowing that they 
were selling and promoting non-standard  investments. Mr S said that poor and insufficient  
due diligence  was done on these companies  and conflicts were not managed correctly.
Portafina reviewed  the complaint but it didnt think it had done anything  wrong.  In its final 
response it said that it had only provided transfer advice to Mr S; it hadnt provided specific  
investment advice, that had been provided by Firm C. It was therefore unable  to comment on 
the nature  of the investments. 
Portafina stated  that it had not ignored  the critical yield, but had based its recommendation 
on the hurdle  rate of 5.63%. This was in line with the regulators recommendations that 
advisers shouldnt  just use critical yield rates as an isolated reason to transfer  away  from a 
defined benefits  scheme.
In terms of the transfer, Portafina said that it had facilitated this as it was important for Mr S 
to be able to vary the amount of tax free cash he took at age 55 and his OPS  wouldnt let 
him vary that amount.  Furthermore, the amount allowed wasnt 25% of his pension 
allowance, as it was only 17% of the transfer value. In terms of the concerns regarding the 
investments, as both Firm S and Firm C were  in liquidation, Portafina confirmed that it had 
forwarded these  concerns  to the liquidators.  
Mr S was unhappy with Portafinas response, so he referred the matter  to this service  for an 
independent review. 
The complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought  the complaint against 
Portafina should be upheld and the advice was not suitable. In summary he said: 
The recorded objectives for the transfer were somewhat contradicted by Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time. They werent  sufficient to recommend  a transfer which  
would result in Mr S giving up valuable guaranteed  benefits
Mr S wouldnt have  had a balanced attitude to risk and his circumstances indicated  
he was more of a cautious  investor
The critical yield needed to match  the benefits  was 10.7% and so the opportunity to 
improve on those benefits was very limited
Portafina couldnt have given advice  to transfer  the pension without considering the 
underlying investments
Portafina disagreed  with the adjudicators findings and said:
Mr S liked the idea of being able to choose  the level of tax free cash or income  he 
could take at 55. When asked about this in the telephone  call of 18 December 2014 
he answered  that he would be interested in releasing  and maximising  his tax free 
cash.
His OPS didnt suit his objective  of increasing flexibility.
Ref: DRN48472994The critical yield wasnt relevant, as drawdown  income was more suitable for Mr S. 
When Mr S was asked if he would like to purchase an annuity  he answered No, not 
at this moment  in time. Therefore,  Portafina  used the hurdle rate.
Its own benchmark  growth rate for a balanced investor  was 6.76%, significantly 
higher than the target growth  rate of 5.63%.
The risk profile it used  was not its own, but an independent profiler  and wasnt  the 
only thing considered when making the attitude to risk (ATR)  assessment.
It believed Mr S should be classed as a balanced  risk investor as: 
-he had a disposable income  of £350 and savings  of £30,000
-he was looking to buy an investment property in the next two years  which  
shows an element  of investment knowledge
-he also had pension  knowledge, as he knew his scheme with his current 
employer was not a final salary  scheme
-his wife had a final salary pension with the NHS,  which gave Mr S an 
increased capacity for loss when recommending the transfer.
Portafina had advised solely on the suitability of the transfer. It was clear  from the 
suitability report that Firm C had not followed  the risk classification it had used. This 
made Firm C liable  for that part of the advice and it had forwarded  the complaint to 
Firm C.
It was important for Mr S to have a return from his fund on death for his wife, as the 
OPS only offered a 50% widows pension.
Following the submission from the business,  a second view was issued in which  further 
clarification for upholding the complaint  was provided, along  with an addendum to the 
redress for the funds  transferred from the AVC. As part of this update, a copy  of the call 
recording from December 2014 was requested. This has since  been  provided by Portafina.
Ive now considered this further information, along with all the submissions provided  by both 
parties and Im in a position to set out my findings. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Mr Ss complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
Portafina recommended that Mr S transfer his OPS to a SIPP  but it says that it didnt provide 
advice as to the investments within the SIPP because  this was being  provided by Firm C. So 
in the suitability letter, Portafina based its recommendation on an example portfolio for a 
balanced risk investor.
Mr S accepted the recommendation and Portafina  arranged for the SIPP  to be set up, the 
OPS to be transferred  and for the funds fully invested in cash. Shortly  after this was 
completed, the servicing rights  for the SIPP were transferred to Firm C. 
Firm C subsequently  arranged for the SIPP funds to purchase a number of investments, six 
of which  were unregulated. 
Ref: DRN48472995Ive thought about this carefully.  Even if it wasnt specifically intending to advise  on the 
investments, Portafina needed to have an awareness of the intended investments. This 
remains the case even  if Firm C was actually providing that advice. This is a fundamental 
requirement of advising  on a transfer  into a SIPP. Portafina cant  say that its only 
responsible for the SIPP transfer itself;  it needed to have a broad understanding  of the 
proposed investments before it could determine the transfer was in Mr Ss best interest.  
As the adjudicator explained,  the regulator  at the time issued an alert about  advising on 
pension transfers  with a view to investing  pension monies into unregulated products  
through a SIPP.  This alert was issued because it had come  to the regulators notice that 
some firms were  adopting advice models  which didnt comply with the existing  obligations 
and so there was a potential for consumer  detriment. 
The regulator made its position clear  in the alert,  where it said:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when  advice is given 
on a product which is a vehicle  for investment in other products (such as SIPPs  and 
other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the 
wrapper and the expected  underlying  investments in unregulated schemes. It should 
be particularly clear  to financial advisers that, where  a customer  seeks advice on a 
pension transfer  in implementing a wider  investment  strategy, the advice on the 
pension transfer  must  take account  of the overall investment strategy the customer  is 
contemplating ()
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in 
unregulated items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the 
regulated elements
In the scenario set out in the alert, the other  firm involved was unregulated.  In Mr Ss 
case, Firm C was authorised to conduct investment business under its AR agreement  
with Firm S. Portafina may believe that this absolved it from its duty to assess  the 
suitability of the investments, particularly as it may have said to Mr S that it wasnt 
providing any advice  on the underlying investments as Firm C was doing that. But the 
update makes it clear  that it wasnt open to Portafina  to provide advice on a restricted  
basis. It couldnt separate out the two elements; its advice on the suitability of the 
transfer had to include the suitability  of the underlying  investments. 
The position  on this is further supported by a subsequent alert issued by the regulator,  on 
28 April 2014, regarding  pension  transfer  and switches. Again, this alert didnt follow  the 
introduction of new regulations but restated the existing  position. The regulator  said it was 
alerting firms to our requirements  when they give advice on self-invested personal  
pensions (SIPPS), giving our view and key messages . It included  the following: 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing  that the customer  will 
transfer or switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest  
through a SIPP,  then the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the 
advice given to the customer.  If the underlying investment is not suitable for the 
customer, then the overall advice is not suitable. If a firm does not fully understand 
the underlying  investment proposition intended to be held within  a SIPP, then it 
should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as it will not be able to 
assess suitability of the transaction as a whole. 
Ref: DRN48472996The alert went on to reiterate that suitable advice generally required consideration of the 
overall transaction, that is the vehicle, the wrapper  and the expected  underlying investments 
and whether or not such investments were regulated products. It said, despite the initial alert 
(in January 2013), some  firms continued to adopt  a model which  purportedly  restricted 
advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. But advising on the suitability of a pension transfer 
or switch  couldnt reasonably be done without considering the existing pension  arrangement  
and the underlying investments intended to be held in the SIPP. 
Theres nothing in this alert to suggest  that it only applies when a firm is giving advice where  
an unregulated  introducer is involved. So, Im satisfied that, even if the investment advice to 
Mr S was being provided by another regulated firm, Portafina had to consider the proposed 
underlying investments too. Im conscious  that both the 2013 and 2014 alert were issued 
prior to Mr S receiving  advice and so Portafina  ought to have known that it needed  to do this. 
These alerts dont have  the status  of a Handbook rule as such,  nonetheless I consider it to 
be a relevant indicator of the standards expected by the regulator  in these circumstances, as 
well as a helpful  indicator  of what good  industry practice looked like at the time.   
Portafina has said that after it gave advice the agency for Mr Ss SIPP was transferred to 
Firm C and it was Firm C that recommended the high risk and Illiquid investments. I dont 
doubt that is what happened, but the alert makes  it clear that a firm that is asked to advise 
on a pension transfer needs  to be aware of the intended investments before it advises on the 
transfer, in order  to provide suitable  advice.  So, Portafina shouldve requested this 
information from Firm C before providing advice. And, as confirmed in the alert, if it didnt  
fully understand  the underlying investment  proposition  intended to be held within  a SIPP,  
then it should  not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all. 
I appreciate the regulators  rules  allow for situations  where two regulated  firms are involved.  
In particular, the rules  state: 
COBS 2.4.6R(2). 
A firm will be taken to be in compliance  with any rule in this sourcebook that requires 
it to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on 
information provided to it in writing by another person.
COBS 2.4.8G
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance  with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a 
firm to rely on information provided to it in writing by an unconnected 
authorised person or a professional firm, unless it is aware or ought  
reasonably to be aware of any fact that would give reasonable  grounds to 
question the accuracy  of that information.
These rules  essentially mean  that a firm can rely on information provided to it by 
another regulated firm, where it is reasonable to do so. The rule is stated to apply 
to situations where  a firm is required by a handbook  rule to obtain the information in 
question from another  person.  However,  in this case, Portafina failed to obtain any 
information from Firm C about the intended  investment proposition  for Mr S.  
Ref: DRN48472997Portafina may say that it instead relied  on general  information provided to it at the 
start of its relationship  with Firm C. But that wouldnt  have been a reasonable basis  
for Portafina to have  assessed the suitability of the pension transfer for Mr S.  
Portafina appeared to recognise this in its suitability report when, despite saying Firm C 
would provide specific investment advice, it set out recommendations for the asset classes  
Mr S should  invest in and to what extent. The recommendations made up a model  portfolio  
for a balanced investor, which Portafina satisfied  itself Mr S was. As noted  earlier, this model  
portfolio recommended  an asset allocation with 18% of the pension held in secured 
structured bonds.  This was virtually identical to the level of investment in UCIS which  Firm C 
eventually chose, that being  19%. Based on this, its difficult  for Portafina to argue that 
Firm C hadnt followed the risk classification that it had used, when its model  portfolio  was so 
close to the actual portfolio Firm C recommended.
What was Portafina required  to do?
I think its important to explain that regardless of anyone elses part in the matter Portafina 
had to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. These include the overarching 
Principles for Businesses. Principles 1 (integrity ), 2 (skill,  care and diligence ), 6 (customers 
interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular relevance here.
The Conduct  of Business  Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook, set out 
the rules regulated businesses have to follow. At the relevant time, COBS 9.2.1R 
required Portafina to take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation was suitable for Mr S. It had to obtain information as to Mr Ss 
knowledge and experience (relevant  to the specific type of designated investment), 
his financial situation  and investment objectives.
COBS 9.2.2R required Portafina to gather sufficient information from Mr S to ensure the 
recommendation met his objectives, he could  bear the risks involved  and he had the 
necessary experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
Under COBS 2.1.1R Portafina had to act honestly, fairly and professionally  in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
Was the advice to transfer the OPS suitable?
Mr Ss OPS was a final salary scheme  which provided benefits based  on his salary whilst in 
employment. It provided a guaranteed  income for the future and a spouses pension that 
wasnt based on investment returns. Giving up the benefits and guarantees available  under  
an OPS and subjecting  future pension income to the risks associated with unpredictable 
investment returns should only be done where it can be shown that it was clearly in the best 
interests of the consumer.  The COBS rules at the time of the advice, stated:
When  advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme  whether to transfer, convert  or opt-out, a firm 
should start by assuming that a transfer  or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should 
only then consider a transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly  demonstrate,  on 
contemporary evidence,  that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
So, the starting point  is that a transfer  wont usually be suitable. Generally, a transfer will 
only be in the consumers best interests  if theres a reasonable prospect that the new 
Ref: DRN48472998arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer  will also need to be suitable, 
taking into account  the individuals particular circumstances.
The pension transfer value analysis report (TVAS) completed at the time showed that a 
critical yield of 10.7%  p/a was required to match benefits from the OPS. But this was based 
on the full transfer  value  being left untouched until age 65, when the adviser was already 
aware that Mr S was considering taking his tax free cash from age 55. It also made no 
allowance for advice, plan or other  ongoing charges. This meant the growth  needed just to 
match the benefits being given up was understated. Like the adjudicator,  I feel the growth  
required to provide an increase in benefits  for Mr S was too high to make the transfer viable. 
The advice was given  at a time when there were no industry standard  projection rates to 
assess the likelihood of the critical yield being  achieved. But at the time the regulators 
assumed future growth rates for personal  pensions illustrations were 2% (lower); 5% 
(intermediate); and 8% (higher). So even  if the personal pension had achieved the highest 
maximum growth at that time, it was unlikely Mr S would receive  a materially  higher pension  
at retirement as a result  of transferring. This is supported in the suitability report where 
Portafina estimated  that, based  on Mr Ss attitude to risk, his personal  pension would grow at 
a rate of 6.76%.  
Mr S was assessed as having a balanced attitude  to risk. This was established using risk 
profile forms, which posed a number of questions and Mr Ss answers determined his 
attitude to risk. These  tools can be useful but I dont  think the attitude  to risk assessment for 
Mr S shouldve been based solely on this. I think other factors  also needed to be taken into 
account when  assessing Mr Ss attitude  to risk, including an analysis of his overall 
circumstances and existing investments.  
Aside from his OPS, AVC and his state pension  entitlement,  Mr S had one other pension, a 
money purchase OPS  with his current employer, the value of which was not known. 
However, based on his length of service of eight years with that employer,  the value would 
likely not be as much as his preserved OPS. He didnt have any investments and the only 
savings he had were  from the recent house  sale. 
As Portafina has pointed  out, Mrs S did have her own OPS and wouldnt be completely 
reliant upon income from Mr S in retirement.  However, her annual salary was only £12,000, 
so her pension income would be far lower than the level of guaranteed  income  Mr Ss 
scheme was projected to provide, even if she worked until state retirement age. As such, 
any substantial losses to her husbands pension wouldnt  easily be replaced  by her own 
pension income.
I dont believe that Portafinas argument, that Mr S had an element of investment 
knowledge purely because he was considering purchasing a buy to let property in the future, 
is valid. An ambition to do something  is not the same as experience or knowledge and in any 
case, investing in a buy to let property is a completely different type of asset class  to the 
ones his SIPP was to be in invested  in. Similarly, I dont accept that being aware of the type 
of pension Mr Ss current employer provided is any evidence of anything more than the most 
rudimentary pension knowledge.
Ref: DRN48472999I am aware  that the complaint letter to Portafina  stated that Mr S had a medium attitude to 
risk, but it also said that he had a low capacity for loss. His capacity for loss, combined with 
his lack of experience and desire  to minimise  losses means that a classification as a low risk 
investor would  have been more appropriate. The suitability report  provided further evidence 
to support Mr Ss lack of appetite for risk where  it said that you stated that the ability to draw 
tax free cash early  from age 55 was a significant potential  benefit and that, provided  the 
impact on your overall  pension was not too severe, you would wish to have the flexibility  
to do so. You expressed the view that you would prefer to have ownership and personal 
control of your pension  benefits provided  this did not result in a significant reduction in your 
future pension. Overall you are not prepared to suffer  a potential reduction in pension in 
order to achieve  this.
It ought to have been clear to the adviser that Mr S couldnt realistically  be classed as a 
balanced risk investor. Giving advice  isnt a tick box exercise and the fact a risk profile 
questionnaire had marked him out as having a higher attitude to risk shouldnt have 
overridden the evidence the customer had provided to Portafina  about his own, low attitude 
to risk.
Based on this, not only was the critical yield of 10.7% unachievable,  but the lower hurdle rate 
of 5.63% - which Portafina relied on when  assessing  the viability  of the transfer - was also 
above the level of growth  which could be expected for a low risk investor.  
The advice was given  during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst  businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when  giving  advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been  considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.  The discount rate for customers who were 12 years to 
retirement at that time was 4.7%.
Even if I was satisfied that Mr S had been  correctly categorised as a medium  risk investor  - 
which Im not - Im not satisfied the life time hurdle rate was the appropriate  measure  for 
assessing  whether  the transfer  was financially  viable.  Portafina  appears  to have  used  
this rate because  it considered  Mr S was likely  to take his pension  benefits  via income  
drawdown,  rather  than as an annuity.  
But the guidance under COBS 19.1.3  G states that the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail client's  relevant circumstances;
(2)have regard to the benefits and options  available  under the ceding scheme 
and the effect  of replacing them with the benefits and options under the 
proposed scheme;
(3)explain the assumptions on which it is based  and the rates  of return  that 
would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits  being given up; and
(4)be illustrated on rates  of return which take into account the likely 
expected returns  of the assets in which the retail client's funds will be 
invested
Ref: DRN484729910Having thought carefully, Im not satisfied  that using the hurdle rate was appropriate in
Mr Ss case. Firstly,  the hurdle rate is used to determine the growth required  to match  the 
starting pension of the OPS, without increases and without a spouses pension being  
included. Mr Ss OPS provided a 50% spouses pension  and it escalated  in retirement. So 
the hurdle rate doesnt replicate  the benefits  he was giving  up, which, as can be seen from 
the above guidance, was what  the regulator  wanted businesses to do when comparing 
schemes.
I accept  that Portafina  didnt  need  to be certain  of the course  Mr S might  have  taken  
with his benefits,  in order  to make  a fair comparison.  However,  there  needed  to be a 
reasonable  basis  upon  which  it assumed  he was more  likely  than not to have  taken  
income  drawdown.   
I acknowledge  that when  asked  by the adviser  during  the fact finding  call if he liked  
the idea of flexibility,  Mr S said probably,  yes, you never  know  whats  around  the 
corner.  And I note that when the adviser  asked, if there was any particular reason you 
think you might like to take an annuity?, Mr S said, no, not at this moment  in time. But 
this was immediately  after the adviser  had said that most people dont think they 
[annuities] are good value  for money. So I think Mr S was somewhat led into providing 
his answer. And I think if flexibility was important to Mr S, then leaving all possibilities 
open, and not ruling  out an annuity at that time,  ought to have been a more suitable 
option for him. Therefore,  I dont think Portafina,  or Mr S, could say it was more likely than 
not, 8 years  before Mr S planned to retire, that he would most likely take his benefits  via 
income drawdown.
So, even if the regulator was satisfied  that the hurdle rate was an appropriate  comparison  
- which it wasnt  - it seems unreasonable to use the hurdle rate when comparing the OPS  
benefits with the SIPP  in Mr Ss case. Im satisfied that the appropriate growth  rate to use 
was the critical yield figure  of 10.7%. And as explained above, this was greater  than the 
highest of the regulators  assumed future growth rates  and so I think Mr S was likely  to 
receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the OPS at retirement, as a 
result of transferring  his OPS.
The critical yield (or hurdle rate) and Mr Ss attitude  to risk arent  the only factors  that 
needed to be taken into account  when  considering  what suitable  advice would have been.   
These factors also needed to be weighed up against  Mr Ss needs  and objectives. 
Mr S was 53 at the time of advice  and couldnt  access his benefits,  either  through his OPS or 
the new arrangement, until he was 55. But even at that age, I cant  see that there was any 
immediate need  for tax free cash. And even if there  had been a need at 55, as set out in the 
TVAS, Mr S was able to access  £63,796 from his OPS at that age.  By comparison, the 
transfer value  of his OPS  and transfer  value  of his AVC totalled  £341,723, 25% of which  
would be £85,430.  Its my view that this extra  amount of tax free cash  would be of marginal 
benefit and not worth the loss of guaranteed income. Furthermore,  the level of tax free cash 
the OPS provided  would increase each  year,  the nearer Mr S got to age 65. 
Ref: DRN484729911In Portafinas  Final Response Letter to Mr S of 1 September  2017,  it was noted that it had 
requested early commutation factors from his OPS in 2014. These were listed as:
A pension  of approximately £11,869, or TAX FREE CASH of £58,456 and a reduced  
pension of £8,768 at 55, or;
A pension  of approximately £22,143, or TAX FREE CASH of £101,659  and a 
reduced pension  of £15,249 at 65
The figures quoted in this letter  dont match the actual figures on the TVAS,  presumably 
because they have not accounted for the higher tax free cash  that that the AVC would  fund, 
whilst maintaining the pension income.  In any case, the suitability report  in 2014 didnt make 
Mr S aware that he could  take his tax free cash from age 55 and stated on page 6 under  
Ability to take Tax Free Cash at 55? You are unable to take tax free cash  from your ceding 
scheme until age 65. This was factually incorrect and Mr S wasnt made aware  of all the 
options available to him.
During the fact finding call Mr S said hed would be interested in releasing  and maximising  
tax free cash,  and it was later implied that it might be used  for to fund a buy to let property. 
However, there should have been some  discussion about the risks, taxes and costs 
associated with this type of investment.  Also, Mr S was already in line to receive almost 
£130,000 in tax free cash at age 65 by remaining in this OPS, so was getting less money  by 
transferring out and would  have to see his fund increase in value to over £520,000 to beat 
this amount. This was not made clear to him in the suitability report.
Portafina has argued that one of the main objectives  in transferring the OPS was to achieve 
better death benefits for Mrs S, as Mr S was not satisfied with the 50% spouses pension  his 
OPS would provide.  The primary purpose of pension planning is to provide income in 
retirement and long-term security in old age, rather than provide additional death benefits 
which may or may not have been needed (for instance if Mr S outlived his spouse).  Portafina 
had a duty to not only set out the benefits  he was giving up, but also explain  the likelihood of 
this being needed. 
Mr S was relatively young and in good  health, with little prospect of not reaching his intended 
retirement age of 65. The suitability report quoted  a life expectancy of 83. Once he reached 
65 Mr S would receive his tax free cash of £130,000, plus his guaranteed full pension for a 
minimum of five years, irrespective of when he died after that point. Assuming he took his full 
tax free cash,  his pension would be worth  a further  £97,210 (£19,442 x 5). It was only after 
all these payments had been  made that Mrs S would start to take the reduced  spouses 
pension. By transferring out at this point, Mr S was giving up a minimum of £227,210 from 
age 65 to provide  additional death benefits in the event of a sudden and unexpected loss of 
life. An event which, by no means impossible, was highly unlikely.
The adviser has taken  Mr Ss objectives  as concrete in order to support  the 
recommendation. But they should  only have comprised one of a number of relevant 
circumstances and objectives to take into account when assessing the suitability of a 
transfer away from his OPS benefits. The paraplanners notes also show  that the customer 
was  unsure as to if they will take any/some/all  of the tax free cash availability at 55, but 
would like to have the choice. In a perfect world Mr S would like to be able to retire  
completely in his fifties  and would also like to be able to consider an investment into the Buy 
to Let market.
Ref: DRN484729912Remaining in his OPS  would  still have  left Mr S with the option  of retiring in his fifties  and 
taking tax free cash as desired. There was no need  to him to transfer out and certainly  no 
need to do so at that time.
Ive also thought about the investments. Notwithstanding the fact that the specific  
investments within  the SIPP were  recommended  by Firm C, the model portfolio Portafina 
used to justify the transfer was not appropriate for Mr Ss circumstances and attitude to risk, 
whether he was classed  as a low or a medium risk investor. 
I say this because  the model portfolio suggested  that 18% of the pension fund should  be 
invested in secure  structured bonds . These are described in the suitability report as asset  
back debt securities that are issued for a fixed term. The report  goes on to explain that these 
are not covered by the Financial Services Compensation  Scheme (FSCS).  And that there  
are credit risks - due to the possibility  of the company  borrowing the money going into 
default - and liquidity  risks. In my view,  this puts them at the higher end of the risk spectrum  
and would generally mean that theyre unsuitable for an inexperienced investor.  So, Im not 
satisfied that a portfolio that wouldve invested 18% of Mr Ss pension fund in unregulated 
and potentially illiquid funds wouldve been suitable  for a client  in Mr Ss position in any 
event. 
A significant share of Mr Ss SIPP was invested  in UCIS. I think the regulators 2010  UCIS 
findings are relevant here. Here  it said that as well as UCIS only being eligible for promotion 
to certain customers (generally sophisticated,  high net worth investors), as an example, even 
when a customer was deemed eligible for the promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved 
limiting a client's exposure  to these investments to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. In 
Mr Ss case, 19% of his SIPP was invested in UCIS. I dont think  UCIS were  suitable for Mr 
S at all, let alone in the proportion invested.  Theres nothing to indicate Mr S had the 
requisite knowledge or experience to accept or understand the risks associated with these 
types of investments.
Was Mr S an insistent client?
Although Portafina  didnt  treat Mr S as an insistent client,  I have thought about whether, if 
hed been correctly advised by Portafina  not to transfer, he wouldve gone ahead  anyway. 
Its evident from the fact finding call that Mr S wasnt willing  to suffer  any reduction in his 
income in order to get more control over his pension. If the true level of death benefit  in 
retirement, and what he stood to lose in terms of guaranteed benefits,  had been fully 
explained, Im not satisfied Mr S wouldve gone  against Portafinas advice.
Is Portafina wholly responsible for Mr Ss loss?
Im satisfied that the advice Portafina  provided  was unsuitable and the losses  suffered 
by Mr S are as a result of its inappropriate advice to him to transfer  his OPS to a SIPP.  
And had it not been for this unsuitable advice, Mr S wouldnt  have been in a position to 
invest as he did through  Firm C. Because  of this I consider Portafina wholly 
responsible for Mr Ss resulting losses.
Ref: DRN484729913Im not asking Portafina to account  for loss that goes beyond  the consequences of 
its failings. Im satisfied those failings have caused  the full extent of the loss in 
question. I recognise  that Firm Cs actions may also have  contributed  to Mr Ss 
loss. So I have considered whether I should  apportion only part of the responsibility 
for compensating the loss to Portafina. In the circumstances, though,  I think its fair 
to make an award for the whole loss against  Portafina.
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were  in a business  relationship  
in which  each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring  about  a single 
outcome for clients  pension-release advice and investment.  Because Firm C wasnt  
authorised to advise  about the transfer  of deferred OPS  benefits, it referred Mr S to 
Portafina. Portafina advised Mr S to transfer  to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP  and arranged for 
the OPS and AVC to be transferred. I acknowledge  that Firm C advised  Mr S to invest  a 
significant share of his SIPP funds in UCIS. But, as Ive explained, Portafinas understanding  
that it could reasonably limit its advice to just the transfer and the SIPP  was wrong;  it needed 
to consider the proposed  investments too, even if Firm C was advising Mr S on the 
investments. It was only as a result of Portafinas  involvement that Mr S accessed  the funds 
in his OPS and AVC.  Portafinas role was pivotal,  since the eventual  investments were fully 
reliant on the transfer taking place; if Mr S hadnt  transferred, he couldnt have invested  as 
he did. And, as was clearly  set out in the regulators  alerts  in both 2013  and 2014,  
Portafina  couldnt  restrict  its advice  merely  to the transfer;  it had to consider  the 
proposed  investments  for Mr S, which  it didnt  do. 
As Ive said above,  Im also not satisfied  that the suggested  portfolio  that was set out in 
the suitability  report  was suitable  for Mr S. So, while  I accept  that Firm C might  also bear 
some  responsibility  for Mr Ss losses,  Im satisfied  that had it not been  for Portafinas  
failings,  Mr S wouldnt  have  suffered  a loss at all.
I appreciate  that Firm C is in liquidation  but Im aware  that, as a fund of last resort,  the 
FSCS  wont  pay out on claims  where  it is aware  that another  firm was involved  in the 
transaction,  and it considers  that firm might  also be responsible  for a consumers  losses.  
I think its important to point out that Im not saying Portafina is wholly  responsible for the 
losses simply because Firm C is now in liquidation. My starting point  as to causation  is that 
Portafina gave  unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses  Mr S suffered in 
transferring to the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to my mind,  wrong  in law or 
irrational but reflects  the facts of the case and my view of the fair and reasonable position.  
Portafina couldve prevented the transfer  and the investments. Instead it facilitated  them,  
having given unsuitable advice to Mr S that he should transfer.   Mr S hasnt complained 
about Firm C and in light of its liquidation,  there  would be little point in him doing so.  He  has 
complained about Portafina and because of what I have said,  it is, in my view, fair and 
reasonable that Portafina should account  to him for the full extent of his losses.  
So, for the reasons  given,  Im satisfied  that Portafina  is responsible  for Mr Ss losses.  
Putting things  right
My aim in awarding redress is to put Mr S as far as possible in the position hed be in now
if Portafina had given him suitable advice. I think Mr S would have  retained  his existing
pension arrangements.
Ref: DRN484729914What should Portafina do?
To compensate Mr S fairly,  Portafina must determine the fair value of his transferred
pension benefits  as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual value  is greater
than the fair value , no compensation is payable.
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the date of the calculation.  My aim 
is to return Mr S to the position he would have been  in but for the actions of Portafina. This is 
complicated where investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily  sold on the open 
market), as their value  cant  be determined.  That appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portafina  should  agree an amount with the SIPP 
provider as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP  plus any costs, 
and take ownership  of the investments. If Portafina  is unable  to buy the investments, it 
should give them a nil value  for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of 
the SIPP used  in the calculations should include anything Portafina  has paid into the 
SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied to the SIPP  should  be deducted.
In return for this, Portafina may ask Mr S to provide an undertaking to account  to it for the 
net amount of any payment he may receive from the illiquid investments. That 
undertaking should allow for the effect  of any tax and charges on what he receives.  
Portafina will need to meet  any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portafina asks 
Mr S to provide an undertaking,  payment  of the compensation awarded may be 
dependent upon provision  of that undertaking.
Fair value  step one
Portafina must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension  review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance  17/9: 
Guidance for firms  on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
The FCA has announced it intends  this month to update the inflation  assumptions used in 
this guidance.  This could  materially affect  the amount of compensation due. Portafina must 
therefore take into account any amendments  to the regulators Finalised Guidance FG 17/9.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ss acceptance  of the decision.
If this is completed before  publication  of the FCAs intended amendments  to the guidance, 
Portafina must re-run  the calculation within a month of the amended  guidance being 
published  ensuring that any shortfall  this shows in the original calculation  is promptly  made 
up to Mr S. Portafina need only re-run the calculation once, to take account of amendments 
currently planned by the FCA. Portafina  does not subsequently  need  to recalculate following 
any further amendments  the regulator  might make later. 
Alternatively, Portafina may wait until publication  of the FCAs  amended Finalised Guidance 
(expected in March 2021) before calculating and paying the compensation due to Mr S in 
this case.
Ref: DRN484729915Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to 
obtain Mr Ss contribution history to the State  Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS  
adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact  of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr Ss SERPS/S2P  entitlement.
Fair value - step two
Portafina will also need to determine  the notional value  of Mr Ss AVC, had it not been 
transferred, taking account of the guaranteed  bonus rate of 3.5% p/a that the plan had.
Any additional sums paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation from the
point in time when  they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out
of the investment should be deducted  from the fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number
of regular payments,  to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Portafina totals all those
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
The combined value  of the above two steps is the fair value.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be 
paid into Mr Ss pension  plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief.  The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  
for income  tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could  have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have  been taxed according  to his likely 
income tax rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 
15% overall  from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr S within  90 days  of the date 
Portafina receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further  interest 
must be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple  from the 
date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days,  that 
it takes Portafina to pay Mr S.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont  apply.
In addition, Portafina should  pay Mr S £300 for the trouble and upset caused as a result of 
the disruption to his retirement planning.
Determination and money award: I uphold  the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated  as set out above. My final decision is that Portafina LLP should pay 
Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £150,000 
plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
Ref: DRN484729916Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require Portafina 
LLP to pay Mr S any interest  on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds  £150,000, I only require Portafina LLP to 
pay Mr S any interest as set out above  on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount  exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
Portafina LLP pays Mr S the balance. I additionally  recommend any interest calculated  as 
set out above  on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts  my final decision,  the money  award  is binding  on Portafina  LLP. My 
recommendation is not binding on Portafina LLP. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept 
my decision  and go to court to ask for the balance.  Mr S may want  to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portafina  LLP to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4847299