K821x#15complaint
Miss C has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc twice unfairly charged her an additional 
premium after she took out a motor insurance policy with it.
Background
I issued a provisional decision on 4 January 2019. For ease Ive copied the key parts of that 
below. I said:
Miss C took out a policy with AXA. It later told her that she hadn't  appropriately declared a 
claim, so it said it would charge her an additional  premium of roughly £112.  It later contacted 
her again  and said that she hadn't been able to give it proof  of the 20 years no claims 
discount (NCD) she said she had. So it had reduced her NCD to the three years she could 
prove. It charged her an additional premium of roughly £305,  although  it later reduced that 
amount to about  £250 after her previous insurer provided evidence of five years NCD. 
Miss C didn't  think AXA had dealt  with her fairly and brought her complaint to us. The 
adjudicator didn't think that AXA had acted in line with the applicable law. And he 
recommended that AXA should give Miss C options about how she would like to proceed,  
including for AXA to reimburse her the £250  it had charged her because of her NCD. Miss C 
agreed to that. She also agreed to AXA keeping the additional premium relating to the claim.
AXA didn't  think  that was fair so the complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill partly  uphold 
it.  
In bringing this complaint Miss C has made a number of detailed points. Ive considered 
everything shes said carefully but in this decision I will focus on what I see as the key 
outstanding points.
the claim 
Miss C initially  applied  for the policy online  although she completed the purchase over the 
phone. She said in her online application  that she'd had one claim in the previous three 
years for windows or glass. She later confirmed  in the phone call with AXA that the claim 
was because the windscreen at the back was damaged or broken. 
AXA later checked  a shared online insurance database which  indicated  that the claim was 
more significant  than a windscreen or glass claim alone. And it said that if shes  
appropriately told it about the claim then it would have charged her more  for her policy, 
which is why it asked  her to pay an additional  premium. 
It might help if I explain that, when deciding whether to offer a policy  and the premium to 
charge for that, insurers will take into account many  different factors.  And each insurer  will 
go about that in its own way. Most insurers will consider a driver with a recent  claim against  
their policy as being a higher risk than drivers  without a recent claim. And where  that's the 
case its common practice for an insurer to charge a higher premium to the driver with the 
recent claim.  But many insurers  will ignore windscreen only claims when considering  what  
Ref: DRN46010582risk a customer presents.  So a windscreen only claim might  not increase  a premium where 
another claim would.
Ive looked at whether it was reasonable for Miss C to say that her claim was a windscreen 
or glass only claim. Miss Cs previous  insurer who settled the claim in question  told us that 
the claim was more than for just glass or a windscreen as it also involved repair to the cars 
bodywork. And Miss C had to pay a £500 excess in order for it to settle her claim. But a 
windscreen only claim would have only required a £75 excess. So given that Miss C had to 
pay a fairly  hefty  excess in order for her claim to be paid, I think  she should  have known that 
it was more than just a windscreen or glass only claim. 
I think AXA asked her clear questions about  what sort of claim she had but I don't think  she 
answered its questions  accurately.  Miss Cs mistake answering AXAs questions is known in 
the insurance industry as a misrepresentation. And theres specific  legislation - the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  which  sets out 
what insurers may do in such a situation.  It says that insurers may:
 cancel the policy; or
 tell the consumer that they will settle any future claims on a proportionate basis  (or 
apply other  exclusions  or limitations they would  otherwise have applied). But if the consumer 
isnt happy with that approach, they can cancel the policy themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply impose  an additional premium. But we think its 
reasonable for an insurer to explain to the consumer theres  a problem and give them the 
option of paying the additional premium in order to keep the policy  going or otherwise to 
cancel the policy themselves.  Although  AXA didn't do that at the time, Ive thought about 
what was likely to happen if it had. Ive noted  that Miss C did pay the additional premium. 
And, in response  to our adjudicators assessment, she said AXA could keep that sum in 
order to keep her policy  running. So I think its likely that, if AXA had given Miss C the option 
of cancelling  her policy  or paying the additional  premium at the outset she would have 
chosen the latter.
So although  AXA didn't act strictly  in accordance with the law when it charged the additional 
premium, I don't think its left Miss C in a worse  position. So Im not going to direct AXA to 
take any action  on the matter now.
NCD
When she was looking for online quotes Miss C said that she had 20 years NCD. But when 
she was speaking with AXA it gave her a bit more information about what  was required in 
order to qualify for NCD. That included that Miss C must have qualified for any NCD as a 
policyholder on her own policy. Miss C told AXA that she'd had her own policy  for three  
years but before that she was a named driver  on someone else's policy  and had also been a 
driver on a company car policy. And I think Miss C gave AXA enough information for it to 
realise that she hadn't had her own policy for 20 years. So it should  have told her, at that 
point, that she would only likely qualify for three years NCD and given her a quote  on that 
basis. But it didn't  do so and instead gave her a quote based on 20 years  NCD.
After it learnt that Miss C only had three years NCD it asked her to pay an additional  
premium of around £305 (it later reduced  this amount to £250). But it said that if she wasnt 
happy to pay the extra  premium she could  cancel her policy and it would only charge her for 
the time shed already been on cover. In other  words it explained  the problem and gave Miss 
Ref: DRN46010583C the option of either cancelling the policy  or paying the additional premium. And thats what  
I would have expected it to do in those circumstances.  Miss C chose to remain on cover.  So 
I don't think its fair to direct AXA to refund any of Miss Cs additional premium because  of 
the NCD now.
That said,  it's clear that AXA hasn't got everything right.  And if it had quoted her with only 
three years NCD at the outset Miss C might  have taken a different decision about  whether 
she wanted the policy at all. And that would have meant she could have avoided the 
complaint process.  So I think AXAs error has led to some distress  and inconvenience for 
Miss C. To address that I think  it should  pay her £50 compensation.
developments 
Miss C accepted my provisional findings. AXA didn't comment on it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partly 
uphold it. 
As neither Miss C nor AXA has objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to 
change it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require AXA Insurance  UK Plc 
to pay Miss C £50 to address her distress  and inconvenience.
It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Miss C has accepted  my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% simple a year1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If AXA pays interest and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Miss C how much its taken off. It should  also give Miss C a 
certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN4601058