K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  hasnt given them  a 
clear explanation why their mortgage  payment increased.
background
Mr and Mrs G have a mortgage  with Halifax. In September 2018,  Halifax  wrote to Mr and 
Mrs G to tell them that it had changed  the way it calculated their mortgage payment and the 
new monthly payment  would be £2,163.34.  But in March 2019, Halifax wrote to Mr and Mrs 
G and told them that it had reviewed their account and the new monthly payment would be 
£2,336.20.
Halifax explained that it had been told by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  that it 
couldnt include the arrears balance when  calculating monthly payments. Borrowers had to 
come to a separate arrangement to repay the arrears. 
Halifax said that when  it recalculated the payment in September  2018 it deducted the arrears 
balance from the total balance and recalculated  the mortgage payment using the remaining  
balance. That resulted in a payment of £2,163.34.
In March 2019, Halifax said that it carried out a remediation exercise on Mr and Mrs Gs 
account. Essentially  it worked out if payments had been allocated correctly  to the arrears 
and main mortgage balance what those balances  would  have been. That meant that Mr and 
Mrs Gs main balance went up. It said the payment would go up to £2,336.20. Halifax  offered 
£100 for the confusion caused by amending  the payment twice.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept Halifaxs explanation.
Our investigator didnt  think that Halifax needed to do any more.  She noted  that there had 
been other issues with the mortgage in the past relating to switching to repayment  and 
applying the wrong term. She said that Halifax had applied  its remediation exercise correctly 
and she accepted its explanation why the monthly payment went up.
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept what the investigator  said. They  made a number  of points, 
including:
The payment  that Halifax set in September 2018  of £2,163.34 didnt include any arrears.  
The increase in March 2019  to £2,336.20 was due to the changing  the term of the 
repayment part of the mortgage to align with the interest only part of the mortgage.
It wasnt clear  how the increased  payment had been calculated as they were told both 
amounts included the arrears.
The payment  of £2,163.34 is similar to the amount they were previously paying when the 
interest rate was significantly higher  than it is now  they expected the payment to go 
down when the interest rate reduced.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN44580062I can understand why Mr and Mrs G are confused about why their payment has gone  up. 
There have been  a number of other issues with their mortgage (which  I am not addressing  
here) that I can see has eroded their trust that the mortgage is operating correctly. Mr and 
Mrs G should not have to worry about adjustments being made to their mortgage  to correct 
past mistakes  particularly as they have been  through a difficult few years, which  I was 
sorry to hear about . But having looked  at everything I cant see that Halifax  has made  a 
mistake or acted unfairly  or unreasonably  in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am conscious that Mr and Mrs G have  had a number of explanations from both Halifax  and 
our investigator about why the payment went up. I hope I dont add to any confusion  by 
adding another  explanation.
In the past when Halifax calculated Mr and Mrs G mortgage payment the arrears balance  
was included in the calculation. So if Mr and Mrs G paid the amount Halifax  requested the 
mortgage should be repaid in full. 
In 2010, the FCA changed its rules so that lenders could  no longer include the arrears 
balance in the payment calculation. But despite this, some  lenders, including Halifax  
continued to include  the arrears balance   and confusingly  also treat the arrears as if they 
still existed.
The FCA told lenders  they must take steps  to address this issue. It said that they should re-
work accounts as if the payment had been calculated correctly  and amend  payments so that 
they were calculated using only the main balance not the arrears. Borrowers would need to 
come to an arrangement  with lenders  to repay  any arrears.
In 2018 and 2019 Halifax was trying to correct  Mr and Mrs Gs account in line with the 
above. The issue was that when the payment was changed in September and October 2018, 
although it didnt  include the arrears balance,  Halifax hadnt yet completed  its recalculation  of 
the arrears balance. When it did so, the arrears balance went down, but the main  mortgage 
balance went up  so the monthly  payment went up.
That is because the total amount owed by Mr and Mrs G would not change because of the 
above  just the amount  allocated to the main  balance and the arrears balance. So the 
impact of the adjustments was largely to adjust  the proportion of the balance  that was 
arrears and the amount that was not. Of course,  if the main  balance goes up, the payment 
will go up too. But the total amount Mr and Mrs G owe will not change.
I note Mr and Mrs Gs point that they paid less when the interest rate was higher on their 
mortgage. That is likely to reflect that the amount of interest  is higher  because of the arrears 
balance. Halifax is entitled to include interest  on arrears in the payment calculation.
After very careful consideration, I cant see there  has been  any mistake  by Halifax  when it 
increased Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage  payment in March 2019.  I agree that its communication 
regarding the mortgage payment in September 2018  wasnt clear. But I think the amount it 
has already paid of £100  is fair to reflect the mistake.
Ref: DRN44580063my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2021.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4458006