K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy about the handling  and settlement of his contents and business interruption  
claim under his commercial insurance policy. The policy is provided by Allianz Insurance Plc.
background
Mr K made a claim after a storm caused water damage to his business  in June 2016. Mr K 
didnt temporarily close  the business following the damage.  Instead  he hired equipment  to 
allow the business to continue to trade.  Allianz arranged  for a loss adjuster  (Q) to deal with 
the claim and Q appointed water damage  experts (P) to deal with the damage.
There were different elements to the claim.  Mr K had commercial buildings insurance 
elsewhere and that part of the claim has been  settled separately. As part of this policy with 
Allianz, Mr K made claims for damaged business equipment and his increased cost of 
working.
In November 2016 Allianz paid Mr Ks hire costs  incurred  for the events he had booked in 
immediately following the storm.  This amounted to just over £6,000.  And in December 2016 
and June 2017, Allianz made two interim payments totalling just over £26,000 for Mr K to 
replace the damaged business  equipment.  But Mr K said it wasnt  made  clear  to him what 
the payments  were  for, and as he was in arrears  on his hire charges, he put the funds 
towards the claim for his increased cost of working.  This meant that he had to continue to 
hire equipment until Allianz provided  a further  settlement in February 2018 which  he used to 
replace all damaged  equipment.
Mr K feels  the total costs  for the items he needed  to hire over the extended period should all 
be covered by the policy. But Allianz  said the improved  offer it made to pay for 22 weeks of 
hire costs is fair. It said Mr K had caused  delays  in dealing with the claim and that he hadnt 
mitigated his losses. Mr K didnt  agree  and brought his complaint  to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said Mr K had made  a valid claim and that hed 
produced sufficient evidence. She didnt think Allianz had offered a fair or reasonable 
amount to settle  the claim. Our investigator  said that despite the delays Allianz  should  settle  
Mr Ks claim in full plus 8% interest, minus the interim payment already made. She also said 
Allianz should pay £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr K suffered due 
to the delays and claim  handling by Allianz.  Allianz  didnt accept this and asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
Since that time, Allianz has withdrawn  its offer to settle the claim and has raised concerns 
about the authenticity  of Mr Ks evidence.
my provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision,  I said:
Mr K is covered for business  interruption.  The policy defines this to be his loss of gross  profit  
due to 1) reduction  in turnover; 2) increased  cost of working; arising  from an insured event.
As Mr K decided not to close his business  following the storm, he didnt have a reduction in 
turnover. But he had to hire in equipment to replace his own which  caused  an increase to his 
cost of working. Mr K has provided invoices from the hire company (W) totalling  over 
Ref: DRN45459322£100,000 for hire costs incurred from June 2016, until he received funds from Allianz to buy 
his own replacement equipment in February 2018.
Allianz initially said Mr K hadnt mitigated his losses. It said it wouldve been  more cost 
effective to close the business. Alternatively, it said Mr K couldve looked  to hire equipment 
on a lease instead of incurring the full cost of hire for every individual event he held. It also 
said that the interim  payment  made  in June  2017  shouldve gone on replacing Mr Ks own 
equipment so that he no longer had to hire.
Mr K responded to say that W didnt have the option  for a continuous lease. And that he had 
to use the interim payments to clear his arrears  with them as it was damaging his reputation  
within the industry. He was concerned  they wouldnt hire to him going forward  if he didnt 
make a payment.
Allianz also raised concerns over Mr Ks conduct  in dealing with the claim.  It said Mr K 
cancelled a site visit from P. And when it did take place, Mr K had moved  the damaged 
equipment to another site so the inspection couldnt  go ahead. In addition to these delays, it 
said Mr K took a long time to respond to requests for evidence and quotes for replacements.  
And during settlement  negotiations in October 2017  to bring  the claim to its conclusion,  Mr K 
informed Allianz hed be out of the country  for 3 weeks. They  didnt hear from him again until 
late January 2018.
Its now come to light that Mr K wasnt  out of the country, he was in prison.  Allianz is 
concerned this wasnt disclosed and has prompted it to look further into the evidence 
submitted by Mr K. It asked him to provide full details of W including  a copy of any contract 
and all written correspondence (including emails, texts, WhatsApp messages etc). It also 
asked for Mr Ks bank  statements to show the payments made  to W.
Mr K said he didnt  have a written contract or any written correspondence. He said all 
communication with W was in person  or by telephone. Hes provided the name and address 
of Ws owner, but said he mostly dealt with a representative (A). And as he always paid W in 
cash after each event,  he has no bank  statements  to show  the payments made. Mr K said 
that all transactions  relating to his business  are in cash including payments from his 
customers, so he no longer  has a card machine.
Allianz have responded to Mr Ks answers.  It said that on review  of the business accounts 
from 2014 and 2015, prepared by Mr Ks accountant, there are administration  expenses  for 
card charges. This indicates that Mr K did have a card machine,  which  is inconsistent  with 
his statement that he does all business in cash. It has also queried how Mr K was in arrears  
with W, if he was paying  them  in cash after every event.
Ive asked Mr K if he could provide us with a bank statement showing the payment of 
£25,000 to W for the arrears, which he made after receiving the interim payment in June 
2017. Hes explained  that he paid W using the cash received from customer  sales,  saving 
him from having to withdraw the £25,000 from his account.
Allianz said its surprised  that no hire agreement was entered  into between  Mr K and W 
given the amount of business  they were doing  together. There isnt any written contract 
between them setting  out the terms of the arrangement including  Mr Ks liability for any 
equipment thats  damaged in his care. And it doesnt appear that he was required to pay any 
deposit. Allianz said it hasnt been  able to find any details of W online or otherwise despite 
Ref: DRN45459323having the owners name and address. It doubts  the authenticity of the invoices and 
highlights that despite the large amounts involved, they dont contain a VAT number.
The invoices do contain a mobile  number  which  Allianz said is registered to a private 
individual. From the details Ive seen, this could be Ws representative,  A  although its not 
clear why her details would be provided  on the invoices instead of Ws owner. Allianz  has 
drawn our attention  to Mr Ks event  bookings, where there is an entry for this private 
individual. And its queried  why W would be hiring  their equipment  to themselves.
Ive thought about all the information given to me by both parties. Allianzs investigations  
have cast doubt over Mr Ks claim,  and I dont think his testimony to our service has been 
entirely consistent. I say this because I was under the impression Mr K was in arrears with 
W, which  is why he had no option  but to direct  the interim payment to them instead of 
replacing his own equipment.
If Mr K was able to pay in cash from other funds, Im not persuaded that he was in arrears. I 
think its more likely  that he wouldve paid W in cash  after each event, which is what he 
indicates he did. I think its unlikely  he wouldve  paid £25,000 to W in cash. And if he did, Id 
question why he allowed  himself to be in arrears when he had cash  available to him.
I think its also a concern that Mr K didnt tell us about being in prison.  He complained  to our 
service about Allianzs delays but made no mention  that hed failed to respond to settlement 
negotiations for three months.  As Mr K has claimed for hire costs  for the duration of his 
prison sentence,  I can only assume that he left someone in charge of running his business  
whilst he was unable to. So, its not clear why he didnt ask this person to handle  his claim in 
his absence also. I think its fair for Allianz to decline  Mr Ks claim costs during  that time.
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied that Allianz reasonably  declined  the claim.  
Mr K hasnt done enough to prove  his claim.  Im not persuaded by the evidence available  to 
support his financial loss. I accept  Allianzs  concerns about Mr Ks failure  to mitigate  his 
losses and I understand  its concerns over whether Mr K has been entirely honest. For these 
reasons, I wont be upholding this complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr K has responded to say hes unhappy  with the provisional decisions. Hes made several 
points. The main aspects  were as follows:
it wouldnt have been more cost effective to close  the business.  This wouldve 
damaged his reputation, especially as the business had bookings which had been 
made 6-12 months  in advance;
whilst  he did have some time in prison,  Allianz  caused the majority  of the delays to 
this claim, and he shouldnt be held responsible for all of them;
W didnt offer a lease  option, so he had to hire equipment for each individual  event. 
All businesses of this nature operate on the same  terms because  theyre supplying to 
the whole  industry;
as he was in arrears with W, he used funds  from another business he owns to pay 
them. So when the £25,000 interim payment was received he left this in his account. 
Its up to him how he chooses  to run his businesses;
Mr K didnt  cancel a meeting with P. P didnt  have  the appropriate cover to be able to 
visit Mr Ks warehouse;
Ref: DRN45459324Mr K was only in prison for a few weeks and he didnt  know  he needed  to let insurers  
know about this. Also, Allianz  didnt make  any offers during this time. And it was the 
only time Mr K didnt try to negotiate  with Allianz;
If Q had handled  the claim properly this situation wouldnt have occurred. Mr K said it 
shouldve questioned the authenticity  of the details he provided  at the time;
W have now ceased trading and he no longer has communication  with them.  So Mr K 
cant get any documentation or clarification  from them regarding this matter;
If equipment wasnt hired,  it wouldnt have  been possible to continue  running the 
business. He doesnt feel Allianz has given an alternative of what happened to 
enable him to maintain his business.
Allianz didnt respond to provide any further  comments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr K feels  the focus has been on delays from him but not on Allianz, but I think  the 
provisional decision referred to the facts Ive seen.  What the response from Mr K hasnt done 
is provide any evidence to show that anything in the provisional decision needs  to be 
changed.
Based on the responses to my provisional decision, I see no reason to change the 
provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
I make  no award against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
John Quinlan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN4545932