K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA), declined a claim 
and cancelled their home  insurance policy (the policy).
Background
I issued a provisional decision in November 2019 concluding that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint 
should be upheld.  I also set out what RSA should do to put things  right. I attach a redacted  
version of my provisional decision which forms part of this final decision.
I invited further comments  from both parties  before  I reconsidered the complaint for a final 
time. Both Mr and Mrs B and RSA accepted my findings that RSA should  proportionally  
settle Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  overall  conclusions as set out in my provisional  
decision.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc.
I require that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc:
arrange for removal of all records of the voidance  from any internal and external 
databases and write  to Mr and Mrs B to confirm this has been done,
consider the claim in line with the policys remaining  terms and conditions,  and if 
payable, reduce any settlement sum to reflect the reduced proportion  of premium Mr 
and Mrs B were charged, less any premiums  refunded when it originally avoided the 
policy,
add interest to any sum paid, at the rate of 8% simple a year*, from the date of loss 
to the date of settlement, and;
pay Mr and Mrs B £300 to reflect the trouble  and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 January 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
withhold income tax from the interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much t has taken off. It 
should also give them a tax deduction  certificate, if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN42175002Copy of the provisional  decision
Complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA), declined a claim and 
cancelled their home insurance policy (the policy).
Background
Mr and Mrs B unfortunately  were victims  of a burglary in February  2017.  They made  a claim under the 
policy with RSA for the items that had been stolen. They were claiming for around £55,000 worth of 
stolen jewellery. This included  a watch  and a ring they estimated were worth £7,000 and £13,000 
respectively.
RSA looked into the claim. The policy  Mr and Mrs B had taken  out with it covered them for £50,000 of 
general contents, £25,000  for fine art, antiques and collectibles and £5,000 for jewellery and watches. 
RSA estimated the total amount that Mr and Mrs B were claiming for was around £147,000 and it 
thought the watch and the ring were worth £12,000  and £34,500 respectively.
Due to the large discrepancy between the amount insured and the amount claimed for, RSA asked Mr 
and Mrs B for an explanation. They said that they thought the jewellery was worth £55,000,  including 
the watch  and the ring, as this is what they had paid for them. Because  of this, RSA said that Mr and 
Mrs B had misrepresented the value  of the jewellery. Under the law relevant to this, the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations) Act 2012, RSA said they thought Mr and Mrs B had 
acted deliberately and recklessly in misrepresenting  the value of the items to be insured. So, it 
declined the claim, cancelled the policy and refunded all the premiums they had paid since the policy 
was first taken  out in 2014.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs B complained to RSA. It investigated their concerns but felt the action 
it had taken was appropriate. Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint  to this service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She thought  that RSA hadnt  treated Mr and 
Mrs B fairly. She said it should reinstate the policy and accept and settle the claim in line with the 
policy terms.
Mr and Mrs B accepted the investigators view. RSA didnt so the case has come to me for a decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, Im minded  to ask RSA to take further steps  to resolve this complaint.
Firstly, I wanted to say how sorry I was to hear of the circumstances that led to this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account:  relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I would  consider to have  been  good industry  practice at the relevant  time.
In this case the relevant law is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). This says,  in summary, that a consumer has a duty to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation to the insurer.  If the insurer can show a qualifying misrepresentation  was made, it 
can take certain actions, depending on the circumstances.
In looking at Mr and Mrs Bs policy history, each time they renewed  their policy, they entered into a 
new contract of insurance with RSA.  CIDRA  required that Mr and Mrs B had to take reasonable care 
Ref: DRN42175003not to make a misrepresentation when  they took out each of those contracts. If Mr and Mrs B 
misrepresented something that RSA asked  them  about,  then it is for RSA to show that this was a 
qualifying misrepresentation. To do this it needs to show that Mr and Mrs B failed  to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation. It also needs to show that it wouldnt  have offered cover,  or it 
wouldve offered cover  on different terms if they hadnt  made the misrepresentation. 
Once RSA has proved there was a qualifying  misrepresentation, what  RSA is entitled to do depends  
on whether the misrepresentation was just careless or alternatively deliberate  or reckless. And if it 
was careless, the actions  that RSA can take will depend on what it wouldve done if Mr and Mrs B 
hadnt made the misrepresentation.
The 2014 policy
Ive been provided with a copy of the screen that the brokers, who sold Mr and Mrs B the policy, were  
required to complete  on their behalf. This shows that for jewellery  and watches the information  
required was:
 Jewellery and watches  total sum insured (the total amount to be insured for all individual items 
valued at less than £5,000)
Click Add Specified Items to insure  items with individual values over £5,000.
So, Mr and Mrs B were required to say the total amount  of cover they needed for jewellery and 
watches where  any individual  items were worth  less than £5,000. And Mr and Mrs B said £5,000 
cover would be enough.
RSA need to show  that by answering  the question in the way they did that Mr and Mrs B failed to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
Im satisfied it has done this. One of the considerations under CIDRA is how clear was the question 
the consumer was asked. I think the above question is clear in explaining  that Mr and Mrs B needed  
to say how much cover they needed overall for any jewellery  or watches worth less than £5,000.  
Mr and Mrs B have said they answered  the question this way as they truly believed that £5,000,  plus 
the two specified items, would be sufficient cover as this is what  they had had on their previous policy. 
And Ive noted  when  they made their claim,  they said they were  claiming  for £55,000 as that is what  
theyd paid for the jewellery at the time. So, given that, excluding the specified items, they clearly had 
in excess of £5,000 of jewellery, Im minded  to agree  with RSA that Mr and Mrs B didnt take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
As I think Mr and Mrs B made a qualifying  misrepresentation, I have to decide whether they acted 
carelessly, deliberately or recklessly in doing so. RSA said that Mr and Mrs B recklessly  misled them 
due to the difference  between what they were insured for and the overall  amount of the claim  made  in 
2017 when compared  with its subsequent assessment of their overall valuables. But Im not satisfied 
that the evidence shows that they were reckless.
Mr and Mrs B have said that the policy  schedule they were  sent listed their unspecified contents  as 
£82,531. And as the claim they were making was for less than this amount they thought  they had 
enough cover in place.
Ive included a copy of the schedule that Mr and Mrs B are referring to below, and page 2 shows:
Having had the opportunity to consider this I can understand  why Mr and Mrs B thought  the claim they 
were making was in line with their policy terms. I accept that Mr and Mrs B are referred  to a further 
section on the policy schedule for jewellery and watches, but it isnt until you reach  page nine, of the 
nine-page schedule,  that it is made clear that jewellery and watches not specified is limited to £5,000. 
Ref: DRN42175004So, I can understand, and I accept, why Mr and Mrs B thought they may have had enough cover and 
had sufficiently represented the amount of cover that they felt was appropriate and reflected  what they 
required.
But whilst they thought this was correct, I am still satisfied that they were careless in making the 
representation that their unspecified jewellery was worth less than £5,000. They clearly knew that 
theyd paid more for it than that. And although I can understand why they thought  theyd given the 
correct value, given the overall cover, I think the question was clear and that the answer theyd  given, 
if theyd  considered it more  carefully, was clearly  wrong at the time they made answered  it. 
So, I dont think that Mr and Mrs B made a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation  and I dont think  it 
was reasonable for RSA to void their policy. RSA has shown, that as a result of the careless 
misrepresentation, if it had known the correct details, it wouldve charged them  an additional premium 
and included  some additional terms on their policy.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs B wouldve  met the additional terms which would have been imposed on 
their policy. These wouldve included  having  a satisfactory safe installed  at their home. 
Therefore, I think it would be fair and reasonable for RSA to reinstate  the policy and remove the 
record of voidance.  I think  it should deal with Mr and Mrs Bs claim,  in line with all other policy  terms 
and conditions,  and if accepted,  pay them a sum proportionate  to the amount of premium they should 
have paid. 
As Ive explained above, Im not satisfied that RSA was entitled to avoid the policy  in 2014 for the 
reasons Ive given. I therefore dont think it is reasonable  or fair for it to avoid  the subsequent  policies 
taken out in 2015 and 2016  for the same reasons.
Ive considered the trouble  and upset this episode  wouldve caused Mr and Mrs B. It is distressing 
enough to have your home burgled. To then find out later that your home insurance policy was to be 
avoided wouldve caused  them  additional distress. I think RSA should  pay Mr and Mrs B £300 to 
reflect this.
My provisional decision
Subject to any further submissions I should  receive  from either party by 5 December 2019,  my 
provisional decision  is that this complaint should be upheld.
I am minded  to require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
arrange for removal of all records of the voidance from any internal and external databases 
and write  to Mr and Mrs B to confirm this has been done,
consider the claim in line with the policys remaining  terms and conditions,  and if payable,  
reduce any settlement sum to reflect the reduced proportion of premium Mr and Mrs B were 
charged, less the premiums it refunded when it originally avoided the policy,
add interest to any sum paid, at the rate of 8% simple a year, from the date the date of loss to 
the date of settlement,  and;
pay Mr and Mrs B £300  to reflect the trouble  and upset caused.
If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax form the interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much  it has taken off. It should  also give 
them a tax deduction certificate, if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax if appropriate.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4217500