K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Phoenix  Life Limited led him to believe that it was necessary to take out 
a life assurance policy when he asked to restart some pension contributions in 1998. He 
says that he was told that taking the policy was mandatory, and that he had no need of the 
cover provided by the policy.
background
Mr B opened  a pension plan with Phoenix in 1989,  transferring benefits from an occupational  
scheme. He had separately complained  about the advice he received to make that transfer,  
but another ombudsman had explained  to him why that wasnt  a complaint we could 
consider.
Mr B experienced a period  of unemployment  in 1998. As a result he agreed  with Phoenix 
that he would stop paying his pension contributions for a period of time. It appears that Mr B 
met with Phoenix in June 1998,  by which time he was again  working,  to review his financial 
needs. The document completed at the time,  and signed by Mr B, identified his priority 
needs as being life cover and pension provision. The advisor  also identified a need for 
serious illness cover, and thought this more important than pension provision, but that 
recommendation wasnt taken forwards by Mr B.
Mr B agreed to take out a term assurance  policy to provide  a cash lump  sum for his wife 
should he die. The amount payable under that plan was much  less than the advisor  had 
recommended. But it was accompanied by a note stating that Mr B had indicated  he only 
wanted to pay the minimum premium  at that time.
Mr B has complained that he was told that taking  the life cover was a requirement of being  
allowed to recommence his pension contributions. Phoenix doesnt agree. It says that the life 
cover met Mr Bs needs and circumstances at that time and that he chose to take the cover  
knowing that he didnt  have to. So it didnt uphold his complaint.
One of our adjudicators has looked at Mr Bs complaint. From the evidence presented by 
Mr B and Phoenix she didnt see enough  to conclude that Phoenix had misadvised Mr B 
about taking the term assurance policy or led him to believe it wasnt optional.  So she didnt 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage  of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
At the outset, I want to say that Ive got no doubts  that Mr B has given us his complete and 
honest recollections of what  happened  when he was sold the term assurance policy.  But Im 
mindful that the events he has told us about took place over twenty years ago, and over 
such a long period  of time, even the most careful memories can and do fade. Where there 
are differences between  what  Mr B and Phoenix  think happened,  I have needed  to use the 
balance of probability in reaching  my decision  or, in other words, what  I think  is more  likely 
to have happened.
Ref: DRN45917942I can see that, at the time the term assurance policy was sold, Mr B held other life assurance 
policies. But those  policies were assigned to his endowment mortgage  and so would likely 
only repay the outstanding mortgage  balance in the event of his death. And those policies 
were due to end in 2009, at a time when Mr B was likely to have a number of working years 
remaining before  retirement. So, I dont  think  it was unreasonable for Phoenix to identify that 
Mr B might benefit from some  additional  life cover  at that time.
But I dont think that is at the centre of Mr Bs complaint. His complaint centres  around  
whether or not he was told that he had to take the term assurance  policy  before restarting 
his pension contributions.
It is certainly true that at the outset of taking  his pension plan from Phoenix Mr B wasnt sold 
a term assurance policy. So I think he would have known, at that time,  that he could make 
pension contributions without the addition of a life assurance policy.  But of course that 
doesnt tell me anything  about what happened  in 1998 when Mr B met with Phoenix and 
agreed to restart his contributions. It is entirely  possible  that he was led to believe that things 
had now changed  and he needed  to take the additional policy alongside  his pension.
But I havent seen  enough to persuade me that was the case. The document that was 
completed at the time, and signed  by Mr B, gave  him the opportunity  to prioritise the 
recommendations made by the advisor.  Mr B agreed with the advisors  recommendation that 
rated life cover as his highest priority. But he didnt  accept  the recommendation for serious  
illness cover  that the advisor said should be his second highest priority.  Instead he said that 
the advisors third recommendation, to restart his pension contributions, would be the 
second area he would address.
So it seems  to me that Mr B engaged fully with the advice process and accepted that it might  
be beneficial  for him to increase the life cover  he had available. I think that if he had been led 
to believe that the cover  was mandatory, and that it wasnt something he wanted at the time, 
he might  have given  it a lower priority score than he did.
It isnt clear to me what has made Mr B complain, some 20 years after the event, that hed 
been misled into thinking  the life cover was mandatory. But it seems to me that once  hed 
discovered the life cover  wasnt a requirement of making pension contributions he might  
have stopped paying those premiums if the cover wasnt something he wanted  or needed. 
Of course it might be true that Mr Bs circumstances have changed over the years, and the 
life cover is now useful to him. But, on balance, I havent seen anything  to make me think his 
circumstances have  changed so greatly  that would be the case.
I have no way of knowing  exactly  what Mr B was told in 1998  when  he met with the advisor 
from Phoenix. But, on balance, I think it most likely that Mr B was aware  that taking the life 
cover was not a requirement of restarting his pension contributions. Instead I think  he 
accepted the advisors recommendation that it would be prudent to increase his life cover,  
and did so at a contribution rate he could afford  at the time.
Ref: DRN45917943my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Phoenix Life Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4591794